03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Following yesterday’s ruling by U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg of the 9th Federal Circuit which held that U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilber Ross had broken federal law and violated the enumeration clause of the U.S. Constitution, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, a senior Member of the House Oversight Committee, today called on Ross to resign. In a statement Mr. Clay said, “Judge Seeborg’s ruling affirms my assertion that Secretary Ross’ deceitful attempt to add a last-minute citizenship question to the 2020 Census was intended to deliberately intimidate minorities and new immigrants in order to reduce their response rate for the constitutionally mandated enumeration of all persons residing in the United States. This shameful attempt to disenfranchise minorities was concealed by a deliberate deception perpetrated by the administration to support their goal of depriving nonwhite Americans of proportional political representation and adequate federal funding over the next decade. Secretary Ross lied to Congress, misled the American people, and he is complicit in the Trump Administration’s racist intent to suppress the growing political power of the non-white population. He has already done great harm to Census 2020, he has zero credibility, and he should resign.” As reported by the Washington Post (3.6.19) “Unable to find any expert in the Census Bureau who approved of his plan to add the citizenship question, Seeborg wrote, Ross engaged in a “cynical search to find some reason, any reason” to justify the decision. He was fully aware that the question would produce a census undercount, particularly among Latinos, the judge said.” Besides the clear violation of the Enumeration Clause, Judge Seeborg also noted that Secretary Ross’ action violated the Administrative Procedure Act by acting “arbitrarily and capriciously” and violated Census Act restrictions on how questions on the decennial census may be modified. To read Judge Seeborg’s full ruling, please go to: https://www.washingtonpost.com/judge-richard-seeborg-census-ruling -30-
02.19.2019	Note: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement byCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. WASHINGTON, DC –“I am very pleased to join with my good friend and former House Democratic Colleague, Senator Edward Markey (D) Massachusetts; and my new colleague Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D) New York, to cosponsor H.Res.109, the Green New Deal Resolution in the U.S. House. Addressing climate change before it is too late is an urgent national priority. Others may ignore the scientific evidence or even lie about the threat, but this Congress must deal with the hard, indisputable facts and act now. We have an obligation to leave future generations of Americans a livable world with clean air, safe water and reliable green energy. I have been fighting to move the United States towards renewable energy for more than 30-years. The Green New Deal not only sets forth a 10-year roadmap to accomplish that, it also will begin a national conversation about transforming our transportation infrastructure to help older urban communities like St. Louis and create hundreds of thousands of new, clean energy jobs. The Green New Deal is an aspirational roadmap for transformative, progressive legislation that will make America stronger, safer and healthier for generations to come.” Photo: Congressman Lacy Clay (D) Missouri and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D) New York are teaming up to cosponsor the Green New Deal Resolution in the U.S. House.
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC –“The State of our Union is broken because of the damage and pain that Donald Trump has inflicted on the American people. We are weaker at home and weaker abroad. Our friends no longer trust us, and our enemies no longer fear us. The President has worked tirelessly to deepen the divisions of racial hatred and intolerance in our nation in order to advance his own personal politics and to placate his extremist supporters. Regarding the issue of border security, Democrats have already offered the President more than $1 billion to improve technology, hire additional border patrol officers, and give them the tools they need to keep our country safe. There is no emergency at the southern border, but there is a crisis of credibility in the Oval Office. The wall that Mexico was supposed to pay for, and the Trump Shutdown that attempted to build it by extortion, are based on big lies. President Trump lies about border security. President Trump lies about climate change. President Trump lies about his tax cut for billionaires that ballooned the deficit and did little to improve our economy. President Trump lies about healthcare. President Trump lies about his relationship with Russia and their influence over his administration. But the truth matters, and so does the Rule of Law. The new Democratic Majority in the U.S. House will pursue both of these with vigor because that’s what the American people deserve from their government.” -30-
01.25.2019	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to today’s agreement to reopen the federal government after 35-days of the Trump Shutdown WASHINGTON, DC – “For 35-days, the President inflicted needless suffering, pain and real damage on federal employees and our nation for absolutely no good reason. The Trump Shutdown was never about border security. It was about the President’s ego and his ridiculous campaign promise. The temporary agreement reached today is virtually identical to the spending deal that was initially approved on December 22, 2018. 35-days. No wall. But real damage to innocent Americans and our economy. Donald Trump needs to finally understand that real leaders don’t build walls, they build bridges.” -30-
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC AND ST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined via video conference in solidarity with federal employees in St. Louis who have been victimized by the Trump Shutdown to demand that the President reopen the federal government. In remarks from his Capitol Hill office, Clay told the large, lively crowd of federal employees, union leaders and local elected officials that “There is no emergency at the southern border, but there is a crisis of confidence in the Oval Office. This shutdown is not about border security, it’s about the President’s ego and his insistence that U.S. taxpayers should pay for his ridiculous campaign promise. Real leaders don’t build walls, they build bridges. Mr. President, federal employees are not pawns in your game of political chicken. Open the government now.” ###
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – In a letter to top corporate officials at local utilities and service providers in the St. Louis region, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has issued a personal appeal asking top civic leaders to help lessen the impact of the partial government shutdown on affected federal employees who have been deprived of their income through no fault of their own. In his letter, which went to Spectrum Communications, Amercn and Spire Energy, Mr. Clay said. “Over 12,000 hard-working federal employees in Missouri, many of whom are also your customers, have been deprived of their regular income through no fault of their own. They now face utility shutoffs and/or late fees and interest. These federal employees are assured of prompt back-payment of all wages once the shutdown ends. Many corporations and financial institutions are already offering special help during this crisis. I am hopeful that you will join that group by authorizing the forbearance of any shutoffs or other fees and penalties for federal employees affected by the government shutdown.” As a senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, Congressman Clay has also initiated discussions with major banks and credit unions to request no-interest loans for federal employees impacted by the partial government shutdown. -30-
01.16.2019	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to a ruling in Federal District Court in New York, blocking the Trump Administration’s unlawful and deceitful attempt to add a citizenship question to the 2020 Census. WASHINGTON, DC – “The decision rendered by U.S. District Judge Jesse Furman confirms my worst suspicions that Secretary of Commerce Wilber Ross’ attempt to add a last-minute citizenship question to the 2020 Census was not only intentionally discriminatory and illegal, but also dishonest from its inception. Secretary Ross crafted a story to support this blatant effort to disenfranchise millions of persons of color and new immigrants. The court rejected the Trump Administration’s ridiculous fiction that the Justice Department needed a citizenship question to better enforce the Voting Rights Act. The clearly deceptive purpose of adding a citizenship question in 2020 was to suppress the response rate from minorities and new immigrants. The resulting undercount would deprive Americans in specific communities of federal funding, political power and vital information that they are legally entitled to receive over the next decade. The Constitution requires us to count all persons in this country. And we must carry out that duty without fear to achieve a complete count for Census 2020. To read the full federal court opinion, please go to: https://www.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.nysd.491254/gov.uscourts.nysd.491254.574.0.pdf -30-
01.08.2019	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "There is no emergency along our southern border, but there is a very real crisis in the Oval Office. The prime time lies that the President told the nation tonight cannot hide the ugly truth that he owns both this shutdown and the devastating financial damage that over 800,000 federal employees will suffer to satisfy his ego and his racist campaign promise to build a wall that has absolutely nothing to do with border security. Majority Leader McConnell should immediately end the Trump Shutdown by taking up the bipartisan spending bills that the House has just approved, which are based on the budget numbers that the U.S. Senate originally agreed to just a few short weeks ago. The President should sign them without delay. The American people hate the Trump Shutdown. They don’t want a wall, and they have no intention of paying for it with their tax dollars.” -30-
12.20.2018	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. “Today’s historic vote is a long-overdue down payment on fixing America’s broken criminal justice system. The “First Step Act of 2018,” which I was proud to cosponsor, strikes a blow against racially-biased sentencing inequality, especially for the thousands of Black and Latino federal inmates who were victimized by outrageous sentencing disparities between convictions for possession and distribution of crack and powder cocaine. Our bill also begins the process of curbing America’s over-incarceration epidemic by easing mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent federal crimes. And it will provide many federal inmates the opportunity to earn a second chance by using training and good behavior to shorten their incarceration. The “First Step Act” also reduces the three-strike penalty to 25 years from life in prison. America has a mass incarceration problem. If we want a safer country and a fairer criminal justice system, we need to prioritize diversion, rehabilitation and education while making second chances possible for more inmates. The massive bipartisan support for the “First Step Act” in both the House and the Senate shows that Congress still has the capacity to act together for the good of the American people. We have much more work to do, but this historic bill is a significant “First Step” towards equal justice for all, instead of just for some.” -30-
10.02.2018	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised the just-signed $854 billion omnibus spending package that will fully fund many functions of the federal government through Fiscal Year 2019 and also includes some key spending priorities to address critical issues championed by the Congressional Black Caucus. “We were able to reverse some of President Trump’s most damaging budget proposals that would have inflicted real damage on urban communities and minorities across this country,” said Mr. Clay. “I’m especially pleased that we were able to win $282 million for Historically Black Colleges and Universities; $10.1 billion for Project Head Start; $3.7 billion for the Low Income Energy Assistance Program; $1.7 billion for Job Corps; and $39.1 billion to fund life-saving research at the National Institutes of Health.”The spending agreement fully funds the departments of Defense, Labor, Education and Health & Human Services. -30-
09.27.2018	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – “As the first Member of Congress to call for the removal of nuclear waste from West Lake landfill, today’s final announcement by the EPA of a cleanup is a huge victory for our long-suffering community and it is a giant step towards long-delayed environmental justice. As I have said from the beginning, this nuclear waste, which dates back to the Manhattan Project, is a 76-year old problem. The United States government created this waste and we have a responsibility to clean it up. I especially want to salute the courage and sacrifice of Just Moms STL, the Missouri Coalition for the Environment and the many citizen environmental advocates whose dogged determination and faith have led us to this landmark decision that will keep our community safe.” -30-
09.18.2018	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – “I am extremely troubled by serious questions of character and conduct raised by Professor Christine Blasey Ford against Judge Brett Kavanaugh regarding an alleged sexual assault. She deserves to be heard, as does the Judge’s response to her disturbing allegations. The question is not when this alleged sexual assault happened, or when Professor Ford found the courage to disclose it. The real question for all of us who love and respect the women in our lives is why would we doubt her veracity given the terrible price that she will now pay for speaking out in public? The Senate should take no further action on this life-time appointment until all avenues of investigation into this allegation, including an FBI investigation, are concluded. That investigation should be allowed to proceed without obstruction or concern for any artificial confirmation timeline that has nothing to do with justice, but everything to do with the midterm elections.” -30-
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today appealed to Senator Claire McCaskill and Senator Roy Blunt to reject the nomination of D.C. Circuit Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court. In his letter, Mr. Clay, Missouri’s senior Democrat in Congress said, in-part: “After reviewing those records that have not been suppressed, and after closely observing Judge Kavanaugh’s lack of transparency and refusal to affirm basic rights of privacy and equal protection under the law for minorities, women, and our most vulnerable citizens, I urge you to oppose his confirmation” “In particular, I find Judge Kavanaugh’s lack of respect for precedent, especially in matters related to defending the voting rights of minorities, demanding constitutional policing, and upholding a women’s right to control her own reproductive freedom, extremely disturbing.” “Judge Kavanaugh’s ascension to the high court would represent an enormous threat to fundamental freedoms that have been hard-won by long decades of struggle and landmark SCOTUS rulings. The American people depend on the independence of the judiciary, particularly the U.S. Supreme Court, to be the final guardian of equal rights and equal protection under the law for all. I fear that Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination to the high court would represent a giant setback to both of those essential ideals.” -30-
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued the following first-person statement after H.R. 6136, the phony GOP Border Security and Immigration Reform Act was sounded defeated today in the U.S. House. “This ill-conceived and dishonest bill was not a compromise, and it did not solve the issue of family separation. It perpetuated a racially intolerant assault on immigrant families while holding Dreamers hostage for a border wall. The appalling level of racial intolerance and hatred of non-white immigrants drives everything that President Trump and House Republicans do on immigration. This bill would have actually made the situation worse for children – maintaining their barbaric policy of family separation in many cases and trading it for the indefinite detention of children in others. In cases of prolonged detention, Republicans wanted to eliminate all court-ordered protections for children’s health and safety – creating a situation in which children will be held in prison-like conditions. This bill also held Dreamers hostage to the idiotic border wall. It provided a long, convoluted and nearly impossible path to permanent residency that could have been yanked away if the multi-billion dollar Trump border wall is not fully funded each year. In essence, Dreamers would be used as political pawns during every future appropriations fight. That’s cruel, that’s racist, and it’s wrong for our country. America is better than this flawed bill, that’s why it was soundly defeated. I stand ready to work towards real immigration reform.”
06.13.2018	ST.LOUIS- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri welcomed thousands of eager job seekers to his 13th Annual Career Fair at Harris-Stowe State University. The massive community service event drew throngs of guests who enjoyed face-to-face interactions with over 100 wonderful employers who were seeking to fill over 1,000 job openings. “The quality and variety of job opportunities at my Career Fair this year was better than ever before,” said the Congressman. “We truly offered something for everyone…regardless of their educational level, work history or area of interest. Having a job is more than just a paycheck, it’s an opportunity to take care of your family and build a brighter future. I’m so thankful to all our employers, and I truly appreciate all the help and hospitality provided by Dr. Dwaun Warmack and his exceptional team at Harris-Stowe State University.”
05.22.2018	Wednesday, May 30th 7PM ST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO) will join with Better Family Life, Inc. to host a unique and urgent town hall meeting on gun violence on Wednesday, May 30th at 7PM at the Better Family Life Cultural Center located at 5415 Page Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63112. This special live event, entitled, “A Community Conversation on Gun Violence,” will feature powerful testimony from victims of gun violence; ex-offenders who have committed gun crimes; local law enforcement; nonprofit outreach teams who are confronting this epidemic of violence; the leadership of the Clergy Coalition; and Congressman Clay. “Doing something to stop gun violence begins with us…listening and working at ground level to reduce the flood of guns into our community and to deescalate situations before they explode with tragic consequences,” said Mr. Clay. “The common-sense gun control legislation that I have introduced will help, especially when it is combined with the good and courageous work of Better Family Life, Inc. in our most challenged neighborhoods. This is not just a fight against gun violence; it is a fight to save our community’s future.” June is National Gun Violence Awareness Month. Congressman Clay’s Town Hall meeting will be followed-up by a Wear Orange Day walk on Saturday, June 2, 2018 at 10:00am. The march, which is coordinated by Better Family Life, Inc.; Radio One; and the St. Louis Regional CrimeStoppers will start at St. Alphonsus Liguori Catholic Church located at 1118 N Grand Blvd, St. Louis, MO 63106 and will conclude at Herbert Hoover Boys & Girls Club located at 2901 N. Grand Ave., St. Louis, MO 63110. Following the walk, a rally and a community resource fair will take place at Herbert Hoover Boys & Girls Club until 2pm. For more information on Congressman Clay’s Town Hall Meeting on gun violence, please call: (314) 669-9393 -30-
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri told the National Urban League’s 2020 Census Black Roundtable that the upcoming decennial Census is at great risk of undercounting millions of Americans, most of them African American and Latino, because of two intentionally damaging practices: the prisoner gerrymandering rule and the highly-intimidating, last-minute citizenship question. Mr. Clay, who led congressional oversight of the 2010 Census, has authored and is cosponsoring legislation to remove these threats to a complete count in 2020. In his remarks, Congressman Clay said, in-part: “The same folks who don’t want people of color to vote don’t want us to be counted. The Census is about three things: money, power and information. And unless we rise up to save Census 2020, this rigged, intentional undercount will cost us political power at all levels; billions in federal funding; and vital information to help lift up the communities that we fight so hard for.” The current census prisoner gerrymandering rule counts incarcerated Americans where they are held in federal or state custody, instead of in their home communities where they came from. H.R. 5454, the Correct the Census Count Act, authored by Mr. Clay, would reverse this damaging practice and restore political power and federal funding to urban communities. “Prisoners do not magically appear,” said the Congressman. “They actually have home towns. And more than 90% of incarcerated Americans will eventually return to the communities where they resided before sentencing. Fairness and accuracy requires that they should be enumerated as residents of their home towns.” Congressman Clay has also teamed up with his friend and colleague from New York, Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, to cosponsor H.R. 5359, the Census IDEA Act which would require any new questions added to the 2020 Census to go through Congress, the GAO, and a 3-year testing process before they are approved. “Almost every civil rights, immigrant rights, and faith-based organization has condemned this blatant attempt to drive an undercount by intimidation,” said Mr. Clay. “And the only way we can stop this is to regain a majority in Congress.” For more information on both of these important bills designed to save Census 2020, please go to: https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/5454?r=1 https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/5359?r=3 -30-
03.27.2018	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – "The decision by Secretary of Commerce Wilber Ross to add a last-minute citizenship question to the 2020 Census is a shameful attempt to intimidate and disenfranchise minorities and new immigrants. The Trump administration's ridiculous assertion that this question will be used to better comply with what remains of the Voting Rights Act is absurd and highly insulting. As the President well knows, this question has not been included in the decennial census since 1950. Its sole, sinister purpose in 2020 is to suppress the response rate from minorities and new immigrants to counter the growing political power of the non-white population. The resulting Census 2020 undercount will deprive Americans of federal funding, political power and vital information that they are legally entitled to receive over the next decade. This fear-inducing question will undermine the Census' constitutional mandate to conduct a complete enumeration of all persons residing in the United States, regardless of their immigration status, ethnicity or national origin. Anything less than that would be a failure to do what the Constitution requires. If Democrats regain the majority in the U.S. House after the 2018 general election, I will lead the charge to remove this racist and intentional attempt at intimidation from the decennial Census."
03.27.2018	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – “The decision by Secretary of Commerce Wilber Ross to add a last-minute citizenship question to the 2020 Census is a shameful attempt to intimidate and disenfranchise minorities and new immigrants. The Trump administration’s ridiculous assertion that this question will be used to better comply with what remains of the Voting Rights Act is absurd and highly insulting. As the President well knows, this question has not been included in the decennial census since 1950. Its sole, sinister purpose in 2020 is to suppress the response rate from minorities and new immigrants to counter the growing political power of the non-white population. The resulting Census 2020 undercount will deprive Americans of federal funding, political power and vital information that they are legally entitled to receive over the next decade. This fear-inducing question will undermine the Census’ constitutional mandate to conduct a complete enumeration of all persons residing in the United States, regardless of their immigration status, ethnicity or national origin. Anything less than that would be a failure to do what the Constitution requires. If Democrats regain the majority in the U.S. House after the 2018 general election, I will lead the charge to remove this racist and intentional attempt at intimidation from the decennial Census.” -30-
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO) has helped introduce HR 5087, the Assault Weapons Ban of 2018. Mr. Clay, who is an original cosponsor of the legislation said, “Semi-automatic assault weapons like the AR-15 are designed to rapidly kill mass numbers of people. They are weapons of war and have no reasonable purpose in civilian society. The common instrument of death and mass destruction at shooting massacres in Parkland, FL; Las Vegas, NV; San Bernardino, CA; Aurora, CO; and Newtown, CT. is a semi-automatic assault weapon. The massive wounds caused by this high velocity weapon leave victims beyond doctors ability to save them. It’s time to end this carnage." The bill, which is authored by Congressman David Cicilline (D) RI; and Congressman Ted Deutch (D) FL; would ban the manufacture and importation of a wide range of semi-automatic weapons and the large ammunition clips which allow shooters to commit the mass killing of innocent students and the assassination of police officers. The Assault Weapons Ban of 2018 would prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: -Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; -Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; -Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; -Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; - And 205 specifically-named and listed firearms. “Assault weapons were made for one purpose. They are designed to kill as many people as possible in a short amount of time. They do not belong in our communities,” said Congressman David N. Cicilline (D) RI, the House sponsor of the Assault Weapons Ban. Congressman Clay added, “This bill is also designed to reduce the deadly threat to local law enforcement who too often face military-style assault weapons fire in the line of duty. We also know that taking these assault weapons off the street makes our communities safer. After the previous assault weapons ban was allowed to expire in 2004, the number of mass shootings increased 183% and the number of deaths in such attacks rose 239%. No one law can end all gun violence or prevent every gun-related tragedy. But Congress has the power to save American lives and we must do so now, without delay.” The Assault Weapons Ban of 2018 is also supported by numerous law enforcement groups including the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives. “While NOBLE supports this legislation, we also understand as law enforcement that it will not completely resolve the gun violence in our country,” said Clarence Cox III and Vera Bumpers of the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives. “However, it is movement toward disrupting gun violence. Our children deserve to be protected and adults have an obligation to never forget that.” -30-
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO) and Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY) are demanding that the U.S. Census Bureau reverse its just-announced decision to once-again count incarcerated persons where they are currently imprisoned instead of counting them as residents of their home communities of origin. Mr. Clay, who chaired the House Oversight Subcommittee with jurisdiction over the 2010 Census said, “I am appalled that the Census Bureau is proposing to repeat the same misguided mistake regarding prisoner gerrymandering as it did back in 2010. As I argued then, prisoners do not magically appear from thin air…they have home towns. And more than 75% of incarcerated persons will eventually return to the communities where they resided before sentencing. Fairness and accuracy dictate that they should be enumerated as residents of their home communities.” Mr. Clay continued, “A repeated failure to reverse the prisoner gerrymandering rule would also be racially discriminatory, depriving minority communities of accurate census counts which would result in reduced political representation and chronic underfunding for critical programs and projects.” “I am profoundly disappointed to learn that the Census Bureau has decided to continue its systematic practice of disenfranchisement of communities of color,” said Clarke. “By ignoring the overwhelming voice of a public demanding change, the Bureau, continues the inaccurate and outdated practice of counting incarcerated persons as “residents” of the prison locations—artificially inflating the population count and the political power of communities with prisons—instead of their home communities,” Clarke said. “Across this country, prison-based gerrymandering weakens minority voting strength, power, and influence and transfers that power to predominantly white, rural areas. Make no mistake about it, this is the Three-Fifths Compromise of today.” -30-
02.01.2018	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – “As the first Member of Congress to call for the removal of nuclear waste from West Lake landfill, today’s announcement by the EPA of a cleanup is a huge victory for our long-suffering community and it is a major step towards long-delayed environmental justice. As I have said from the beginning, this nuclear waste, which dates back to the Manhattan Project, is a 75-year old problem. The United States government created this waste and we have a responsibility to clean it up. I want to thank EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt for his leadership in helping reach this decision. And I especially want to salute the courage and sacrifice of Just Moms STL, the Missouri Coalition for the Environment and the many citizen environmental advocates whose dogged determination and faith have led us to this landmark decision that will keep our community safe.” -30-
01.31.2018	Note: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – “President Trump’s alternative reality was on full display tonight. He simultaneously invented fake economic facts while ignoring the deep wounds and divisions that he has inflicted on the American people. While the 1% and corporations have benefited greatly from the Trump economy and the rising stock market, working Americans have not. His Trump Taxscam is accelerating the transfer of wealth from the middle class to the fortunate few while over 86 million American families will receive a tax increase. The President also failed to make any real commitment to fighting drug addiction and supporting expanded drug treatment. That is a critical failure to lead. I am willing to work with the President if he truly wants to lower the price of prescription drugs, pass a second chance act to help former offenders, and increase vocational education, especially for young people in inner cities. But sadly, the President continues his assault on the freedom of the press; an independent judiciary; the Federal Bureau of Investigation and our intelligence community. He continues to deepen his moral deficit that diminishes him, demeans his high office, and weakens our nation at home and abroad. That is the true state of the union.” -30-
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO-1) Missouri joined with the Congressional Black Caucus and Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee – led by CBC Chairman Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA-02) and Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY-10, to introduce a resolution to censure President Trump for the racist, vile comments he made about Haiti and African countries during a bipartisan January 11, 2018, meeting on American immigration policy. The resolution currently has nearly 150 Democratic co-sponsors. Specifically, the resolution censures President Trump for the following: - Questioning whether Haitians needed to be included in the compromise. “Haitians, why do we need more Haitians? Take them out,” President Trump said. - Referring to African countries as “shitholes” or “shithouses;” and, - Suggesting that instead of accepting immigrants from predominately black Haiti and African countries, the United States should instead allow more immigration from predominately white countries like Norway. Statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “President Trump’s vile, racist statements regarding refugees and immigrants from Africa, Haiti, El Salvador and other non-European countries confirms that his world-view and decision-making process is driven by intolerance, ignorance and blatant racism. His reprehensible comments have once again provided aid and comfort to white supremacists, demeaned his office, and weakened the United States in the eyes of the world. Congress must go on record to hold him accountable.” Joint Statement from CBC Chairman Richmond and House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Nadler: “We were deeply disturbed and offended by President Trump’s remarks regarding Haiti and African countries. The countries he called ‘shitholes’ produce immigrants that are remarkable and make significant contributions to our country. A high percentage of those immigrants have college degrees and when they get here they create businesses and jobs. “These remarks have compelled us to prepare a resolution of censure with our colleagues, to condemn President Trump for his racist statements. This censure resolution is important because America is a beacon of hope. We have to show the world that this president does not represent the real feelings of most of the American people which is part of the reason why he lost the popular vote. “The President’s bigoted fearmongering is not acceptable and his remarks completely warrant total condemnation and censure from Congress. American immigration policy cannot and should not be guided in any way, shape or form by racism. “We will be asking Republican Leadership to bring our resolution of censure up for swift consideration and approval. Congress must speak with one voice in condemning these offensive and anti-American remarks. There is no excuse for it.” In addition to Chairman Richmond, Congressman Clay and Ranking Member Nadler, co-sponsors include House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn, House Democratic Chairman Joe Crowley, and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. Constituents can become “community co-sponsors” of the resolution by clicking here. In August, a majority of the CBC and House Judiciary Democrats co-sponsored a resolution to censure President Trump for his “both sides” response to the white supremacist violence in Charlottesville. That resolution was led by Ranking Member Nadler, Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA-07), a House Judiciary Committee member, and Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ-12), a CBC member. -30-
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The African American Civil Rights Network Act, historic, bipartisan legislation championed by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri; Senator Sherrod Brown (D) Ohio; and Congressman Jason Smith (R) Missouri has been signed into law. “This is a historic day,” said Mr. Clay. “The African American Civil Rights Network Act will recognize, preserve, protect and share the remarkable American story of the modern struggle for civil rights, a unique national experience that touches every American, regardless of their age, ethnicity or heritage, The historic network will create tremendous educational opportunities by recognizing those brave souls from all walks of life who fought to make the promises enshrined in our constitution finally ring true.” The act, which earned 72 cosponsors from both sides of the aisle in the U.S. House, authorizes the National Park Service to establish a program to preserve and protect the memory of the people and places that were significant in the struggle to secure equal rights for African Americans during the modern civil rights era between 1939-1968; along with other sites that have a verifiable connection to the civil rights movement that are included in, or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. “In too many places across this country, precious historic waypoints along the routes of that still largely untold story are at risk of being lost forever,” said the Congressman. “My hope is that the historic civil rights network and the programs that will grow from this law will honestly tell the full and sometimes painful story of the struggle for civil rights, not just for African Americans, but to foster healing, tolerance and understanding among all Americans. I am extremely grateful to my colleagues Congressman Smith and Senator Brown for their support, as well as our many cosponsors from across the nation.” Congressman Clay’s new law is similar to legislation that created The National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Act of 1998, presently administered by the National Park Service. The law is supported by the National Trust for Historic Preservation; the National Urban League; the NAACP and the National Parks Conservation Association For more information on this important new law, please go to: https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/1927?q=%7B%22search%22%3A%5B%22HR+1927%22%5D%7D&r=1 -30-
12.19.2017	-WASHINGTON, DC Note: The following, in its entirety, is all first-person from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to House passage of H.R. 1, the GOP Tax Scam. “This monstrous Trump-GOP Tax Scam is one of the worst pieces of legislation that I have ever seen. It raises taxes on over 86 million middle-class families to provide a massive transfer of wealth from working people to the super-wealthy and to corporations. Families like President Trump’s will be richly rewarded while over 320,000 middle-class families in Missouri will get a tax increase. In fact, 83% of the tax cuts in this deeply flawed and fiscally irresponsible bill will pad the pockets of the top 1%. This terrible and destructive bill will rob seniors by cutting over $25 billion from Medicare to help pay for tax cuts for billionaires. It will strip away healthcare coverage from 13 million Americans. And it will explode the debt by putting at least $1 trillion more on the national credit card which our children and grandchildren will pay for. This isn’t tax reform…it’s tax fraud. Under the Trump-GOP TaxScam…the haves will have more, and everyone else will pay for it.”
11.29.2017	-WASHINGTON, DC Note: The following, in its entirety, is all first-person from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. “Mr. President, welcome to Missouri. I understand that your visit will focus on your indefensible, reckless Republican tax scam that will raise taxes on millions of middle-class families; rob seniors; punish students; weaken higher education; strip healthcare coverage away from 13 million Americans and explode the debt by charging an additional $1.4 trillion on the national credit card. You and the Republican party like to talk about family values. And there is no doubt that extremely wealthy families like yours will reap millions from your GOP Tax Scam. But what about real Americans who will pay more and get less? Show-Me why you want to raise taxes on over 320,000 middle-class families in Missouri; Show-Me why you want to bury 255.920 Missouri students who hold student loans even deeper in debt by eliminating the deduction for student loan interest; Show-Me why you want to harm 165,001 seriously-ill Missouri taxpayers who will no longer be able to deduct Medical Expenses; Show-Me why when asked about the state level impact of the GOP Tax Scam, even the Republican Chairman of the Missouri House Budget Committee, State Representative Scott Fitzpatrick of Shell Knob told the St. Louis Post-DIspatch on November 9th: “We cannot have a billion dollar hole blown in the budget. We cannot afford that.” Show-Me why you want to impose double taxation on every Missouri taxpayer who will no longer be able to deduct state and local income taxes; Show-Me why you want to weaken Medicare by robbing it of over $25 billion over the next ten years to help pay for tax cuts for billionaires like you; And, Show-Me how you intend to ever look middle-class families in the face again when you promised to lower taxes for every American…and instead, you pushed this shameful GOP Tax Scam that will ensure that the haves will have more…and everyone else will pay for it.” -30-
11.20.2017	STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING JUSTICE DEPARTMENT DECISION TO HONOR HIS REQUEST FOR A CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATION INTO LOCAL POLICE ACTIONS AGAINST PROTESTERS OF RECENT JASON STOCKLEY VERDICT -ST. LOUIS, MO Note: The following, in its entirety, is all first-person from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. "I am very gratified that U.S. Attorney Jensen and the Department of Justice have responded so quickly to my request for a civil rights investigation regarding the allegedly unconstitutional ‎actions by police after the Stockley verdict. The 1st Amendment is vital, because like our local police, it defends everyone. Both are essential to our country and our community.” -30-
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – On the heels of last week’s very successful DACA Summit at Saint Louis University, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri and Congressman Raul Grijalva (D) Arizona, Co-Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus; today thanked Missouri Dreamers for their dedication to defending young Americans who are currently protected by DACA, and they restated their demand for an up or down vote on H.R. 3440, the Dream Act of 2017, which is cosponsored by Mr. Clay, Mr. Grijalva and 198 other Members of Congress from across the nation. Clay and Grijalva also restated their pledge to vote against any year-end spending bill that does not include the Clean Dream Act language to grant permanent legal status to over 800,000 young Americans who are at risk of deportation. In their letter to Missouri Dreamers, Mr. Clay and Mr. Grijalva said in-part: “We commend you for your leadership; it is much needed during these times of frustration and uncertainly for families across the country. We are proud cosponsors of H.R. 3440, the only bipartisan and bicameral legislation that would provide relief for Dreamers and a pathway to citizenship. If Congressional Republicans do not bring the Clean Dream Act as a stand-along bill to the House floor, we will not support any year-end spending legislation that does not include the Clean Dream Act.” Because of President Trump’s action to end former President Obama’s “Deferred Action for Child Arrivals,”(DACA) - over 800,000 young Americans, including at least 700 in the St. Louis area, are at risk of deportation beginning in March of 2018 if Congress fails to act. The complete text of the letter to Missouri Dreamers from Mr. Clay and Mr. Grijalva is attached. -30-
11.16.2017	STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI IN RESPONSE TO PASSAGE OF H.R.1 The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – "The Republican tax scam passed today in the U.S. House betrays working families, explodes the debt, and punishes students, seniors, and homeowners. It will raise taxes on 36 million middle-class families. It will bury student loan holders even deeper in debt by eliminating the deduction for student loan interest. It penalizes hard work by eliminating the deduction for state and local taxes. And our seniors, who depend on Medicare, will suffer a $25 billion cut from that vital program over the next ten years. House Republicans not only raised taxes on millions of Americans today, they voted to add $1.5 trillion to the national debt, which our children and grandchildren will have to pay for. Under the GOP tax scam, the haves will have more…and everyone else will be asked to pay for it." -30-
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has made a formal request to new United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri Jeffery B. Jenson to launch a federal investigation into alleged unconstitutional practices by St. Louis area local law enforcement agencies in response to protests following the acquittal of former St. Louis Police Officer Jason Stockley in the death of Anthony Lamar Smith. The request from Mr. Clay comes on the heels of a ruling in U.S. 8th District Federal Court in St. Louis earlier today by Judge Catherine Perry that criticized aggressive police crowd control methods and restricted the indiscriminate use of chemical agents against protestors and innocent bystanders. In his letter to U.S. Attorney Jenson, the Congressman said in-part, “I am deeply troubled by the numerous reports and documented allegations of civil rights violations by law enforcement. An investigation into alleged unlawful police actions could be a powerful example of how the federal government ensures justice is administered without bias and an acknowledgment that all rights must be respected. St. Louis is the poster child for the need of federal intervention to address decades of bad police relations that reinforce the decline and erode the trust of police-community relations.” In her order, Judge Perry ruled that, “Police can’t declare an unlawful assembly and enforce it against those engaged in expressive activity unless persons are acting in concert to pose an imminent threat to use force or violence or to violate a criminal law with force or violence.” Judge Perry also prohibited the use of chemical agents such as mace and pepper spray against, "Expressive, non-violent activity without probable cause to make an arrest and without providing clear and unambiguous warnings and an opportunity to heed those warnings.” Read the full text of Congressman Clay’s letter to U.S. Attorney Jensen.
09.28.2017	-ST. LOUIS, MO Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has sent an urgent letter to St. Louis County Executive Steve Stenger, St. Louis County Council Chairman Dr. Sam Page and the entire County Council seeking the immediate appointment of an independent and impartial investigator to probe allegations of police brutality and excessive force in response to peaceful protestors at St. Louis Galleria on Saturday, September 23rd. In his letter, the Congressman stated in-part: “I urge you to immediately appoint an independent investigator to pursue all facts and evidence related to the allegedly unconstitutional and excessive law enforcement response by the St. Louis County Police, Richmond Heights Police and Brentwood Police to a peaceful protest at the St. Louis Galleria on Saturday, September 23rd. The first-hand and video accounts of citizens who were subjected to brutal treatment, arrest, prolonged detention, and alleged deprivation of medical care are chilling and outrageous. This situation requires a credible investigation by an independent, unbiased investigator. Our citizens deserve nothing less.” Mr. Clay’s request came in response to numerous reports of alleged abuse suffered by constituents who were peacefully exercising their 1st Amendment rights at the Galleria protest in opposition to the acquittal of former St. Louis Police Officer Jason Stockley in the death of Anthony Lamar Smith. -30-
09.15.2017	STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING THE ACQUITTAL OF FORMER ST. LOUIS POLICE OFFICER JASON STOCKLEY IN THE DEATH OF ANTHONY LAMAR SMITH -ST. LOUIS, MO Note: The following, in its entirety, is all first-person from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “Once again, another young Black man dies at the hands of a police officer…with no consequences. Jason Stockley acted as judge, jury and executioner. He violated multiple department regulations, and he showed a total disregard for the life of my constituent, Anthony Lamar Smith. Justice has been cruelly denied for Anthony Lamar Smith’s family and this community. I stand in total solidarity with them in expressing my absolute outrage at this verdict. Our communities need and respect good policing. A few bad apples denigrate the entire force and place officers and citizens unnecessarily in harm’s way when they meet. We must demand changes in local law enforcement to ensure all lives are respected and honored. There is no coming back after a life is taken, only sadness. Black Lives Matter, and that declaration is not meant to diminish or denigrate the value of any other group, It is simply an honest statement of the ugly and very painful truth that in America, in 2017, some lives are still worth more than other lives. Our young people are outraged and angry about that…and so am I. This tragic case also underscores the urgent, fundamental question that our nation, our state, and our community have thus far failed to honestly address…how do we transform local law enforcement and our criminal justice system to finally provide equal justice under the law for all…instead of just for some. The federal legislation that I have already introduced could provide some of the answers because it would mandate increased sensitivity training for all police officers to help them deescalate potentially violent situations before they become deadly. My bill also requires the appointment of an independent prosecutor in all instances when police use deadly force. And my legislation incentivizes the use of body cameras by all local police departments who compete for Justice Department grants. These transformative changes would make a huge difference in bridging the trust deficit that still divides many police officers from the citizens they are sworn to serve and protect.” -30-
08.28.2017	-WASHINGTON, DC Note: The following, in its entirety, is all first-person from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “Three years ago, as the tragedy in Ferguson unfolded, I personally witnessed local police in armored vehicles pointing military-style sniper rifles with night scopes at my constituents who were peacefully exercising their constitutional rights. That over-militarization increased tensions, incited more violence and established a deadly perception that local police officers had become warriors instead of guardians of public safety. In response, I worked closely with former President Obama and former U.S. Secretary of Defense Hagel to place reasonable limits on the distribution of military surplus items to local law enforcement. That was in keeping with key findings and recommendations of the President’s Taskforce on 21st Century Policing. President Trump’s decision to rescind these limitations will allow local police departments to receive grenade launchers, bayonets, tracked armored vehicles, sniper rifles and military grade ammunition; along with other surplus Department of Defense equipment that was intended for use on the battlefield, not in neighborhoods. President Trump’s reckless decision to remilitarize local police is another shameful step backwards as he continues to deepen divisions across this country while appeasing hate, bigotry and intolerance.” -30-
07.26.2017	Bill Would Preserve Historic Sites and Help Tell the Real History of the 20th Century Civil Rights Struggle WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives has passed H.R. 1927, the African American Civil Rights Network Act of 2017, important new legislation authored by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. The bipartisan act, which was approved with 72 cosponsors from across the nation, including Congressman Jason Smith (R) Missouri; will help preserve, illuminate and tell the still largely untold story of the 20th Century struggle for Civil Rights. The legislation directs the Secretary of the Interior to identify and create a national network of historic sites, stories, research facilities and educational programs connected to the modern African American civil rights movement. In remarks on the House floor today, Mr. Clay said in-part; Our legislation would authorize the National Park Service to establish a program to preserve and protect the memory of the people and places that were significant in the struggle to secure equal rights for African Americans during the 20th century civil rights era between 1939-1968. Young Americans find it difficult to believe that racial segregation was once considered normal and necessary in some parts of the United States. I truly believe that the healing potential for this legislation is essential to bringing our nation together. The historic network that H.R. 1927 would create would offer tremendous educational opportunities by recognizing those brave souls from all walks of life who fought to make the promises enshrined in our constitution finally ring true for every American, regardless of the color of their skin. Across this great country, precious historic waypoints along the routes of that still largely untold story are at risk of being lost forever. My hope is that the historic civil rights trails and the programs that will grow from this act will honestly tell the full and sometimes painful story of the struggle for civil rights. Not just for African Americans, but to foster healing, tolerance and understanding among all Americans. The struggle for freedom and equality is one of the truly magnificent and heroic episodes of our nation’s history. And when we are presented with a bipartisan opportunity to embrace the transformative power of the real American story… We should seize it.” -30-
07.17.2017	ST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined St. Louis Mayor Lyda Krewson; Missouri Department of Mental Health Director Mark Stringer; People’s Health Centers CEO Dwayne Butler and hundreds of neighborhood residents to dedicate the new Lacy Clay Center for Children’s Health in North St. Louis. The new $6.5 million comprehensive behavioral health center for young people is located just blocks away from Congressman Clay’s childhood home. It was made possible by a $3 million federal investment in community healthcare. In his remarks at the dedication ceremony this past Saturday (7.15.17) the Congressman said, in-part: “Having this new facility named for me is truly one of the highest honors I have ever received as a public servant. But I have to tell you the truth…This building is not about me. It’s about the children and families who will be treated here. You see, we have a problem across this country and especially in this community… Too many young people experience both physical and emotional trauma at an early age. And that trauma leaves deep wounds, not just for the kids, but for their families too. If we don’t intervene to heal those children at the earliest possible opportunity…the consequences, both for them and for our community…are devastating. And almost every day…we see the tragic results of those untreated wounds on our streets. Lately, you’ve heard a lot about fighting crime in St. Louis. There have been proposals for more police, more cameras, more community-based engagement, more training…and all of that is needed. But let me tell you the plain truth… Unless we commit ourselves as a nation and as a community to dealing directly with the roots of crime and violence at the family and neighborhood levels…we will never succeed in making our streets safe. We can’t police our way out of this problem. But we can reach out to young people who are victims of toxic stress and give them a healing place where they can come with their families without judgement… Without any stigma…and receive the comprehensive medical and behavioral healthcare that this exceptional facility will provide…not just with great skill…but with love. Our young people need to feel the loving professional care of people just like them…who believe that they are worth saving; that their lives really do matter, and that their futures are worth fighting for. That’s what the Lacy Clay Center for Children’s Health is all about. I was able to work with former Mayor Francis Slay to provide $3 million federal dollars to make this building a reality…and I’m proud of that.” Congressman Clay dedicates the $6 million Lacy Clay Center for Children's Health in St. Louis Grand opening, Lacy Clay Center for Children's Health in St. Louis -30-
07.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri is demanding that Missouri Secretary of State Jay Ashcroft identify immediate actions he intends to take to safeguard Missouri elections from foreign tampering. The Congressman’s letter to Mr. Ashcroft also denounced Missouri’s new Photo ID law. Mr. Clay, Missouri’s senior Democrat in Congress, first warned of Russian attempts to tamper with U.S. elections early last year during hearings before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. In his letter to Missouri Secretary of State Ashcroft, the Congressman said, in part: “There is an urgent threat to the voting rights of millions of Missourians and the integrity of our election process, and the new Photo ID law will do nothing to address this danger.” “While I would never accuse you of deliberately discouraging voter turnout; that is precisely what the new Voter ID law will do. Instead of making it easier to vote, Missouri is making it harder for its most vulnerable citizens.” “As you are surely aware, actual voter impersonation does not happen in Missouri. The real threat to democracy and the integrity of our election process is from the widespread and clearly dangerous attempts by foreign adversaries to hack, penetrate and manipulate state and local election authorities. Representatives of the Department of Homeland Security told Congress that they have verified that in 2016, Russia attempted to hack into at least 22 state and local election authorities.” “I hereby request that you swiftly identify and report back to me what specific steps you will take within your own office and among all election authorities at the county level in Missouri to safeguard voter registration rolls, voter tabulation software and our overall electoral process from this very real danger of foreign sabotage. Unlike the false charges of voter impersonation, which gave birth to the Photo ID law, this threat is real.” -30-
06.06.2017	ST. LOUIS- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri welcomed thousands of eager job seekers to his 12th Annual Career Fair at Harris-Stowe State University yesterday. The massive community service event drew throngs of guests who enjoyed face-to-face interactions with 113 wonderful employers who were seeking to fill over 1,000 job openings. “The quality and variety of job opportunities at my Career Fair this year was better than ever before,” said the Congressman. “We truly offered something for everyone…regardless of their educational level, work history or area of interest. Having a job is more than just a paycheck, it’s an opportunity to take care of your family and build a brighter future. I’m so thankful to all our employers, and I truly appreciate all the help and hospitality provided by Dr. Dwaun Warmack and his exceptional team at Harris-Stowe State University.” -30
05.30.2017	ST.LOUIS - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will present his 12th Annual First District Career Fair on Monday, June 5th from 9:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m. at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center located at 3026 Laclede Avenue. This unique jobs event will feature over 100 of the St. Louis area’s top employers who are seeking to fill more than 1,000 job openings, and it’s absolutely free. “My top priority is connecting constituents with quality job opportunities that they could not access on their own.” said the Congressman.” Our Career Fair is St. Louis’ biggest and best jobs event. We will once again feature over 100 companies from all sectors of the local economy who are currently hiring,” said the Congressman. “They are looking to fill more than 1000 job openings at all skill levels. We’re also offering great job opportunities with federal, state and local government agencies. Last year, thousands of eager job seekers attended. I would advise guests to arrive early, dress for success and have your resumes ready.” For those interested in public service, the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency; the Federal Aviation Administration, the Social Security Administration and the U.S. Census Bureau will lead the federal family of excellent job opportunities at the Clay Career Fair. The St. Louis Vet Center will also be on hand to help veterans find the right job that will help them successfully transition to civilian life. Among the leading private-sector St. Louis employers who will be on hand are: the Boeing Company; Express Scripts; Enterprise: Monsanto: Pfizer; Mercy Healthcare; World Wide Technology; iHeartRadio; Hollywood Casino; Alberici Construction; United Parcel Service; Federal Express; CBS Radio; Emmis Communications; Radio One; Charter-Spectrum; CitiBank; Regions Bank; New York Life; and many others. For more information, please call (314) 367-1970 or visit www.lacyclay.house.gov -30-
05.24.2017	Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri is pleased to congratulate 19 talented high school artists from across Missouri’s 1st congressional district who competed in the 17th Annual Congressional Art Competition. This year’s 1st place winner. who was honored at the Saint Louis University Museum of Art, is Santia Maderios, a sophomore at McCluer High School. Her winning entry, entitled “Bound” is a mixed work in pencil, marker and acrylic. Ms. Maderios’ colorful and thought-provoking work will be on display at the U.S. Capitol complex. She will travel to Washington, DC, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to unveil her winning entry. In the artist’s own words, she described her winning entry as: “This piece displays a young woman being forced to do her hair. Three ghost-like hands tug on her hair, forcing her to do things in order to fit society’s beauty standards. She is visibly not willing to do this.” In his remarks to the overflow crowd of young artists, parents and teachers Congressman Clay said, “Tonight, we are celebrating our seventeenth year of recognizing outstanding young artistic talent. As you can see from the artwork on display here, the level of talent is truly impressive. Young Americans have a right to express themselves without censorship. Your art is true to you. Your voices and ideas should be respected, welcomed and protected…at the U.S. Capitol, and everywhere else.” The Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition is in its 33rd year nationally. This is the 17th year that Congressman Clay has conducted the competition in Missouri’s First Congressional District. Congratulations to all the young artists. Here are the results: 1st place - “Bound” (A mixed media work in pencil, marker and acrylic by Santia Maderios , McClure H.S.) 2nd place - “A Study in Values” (A work in charcoal by Hannah O’Brien, Metro High School) 3rd place - “Metamorphosis” (A drawing in pen ink by Grace Ray, Lutheran South H.S.)
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. (May 17, 2017)—Last night, all 34 Democratic Members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the House Committee on the Judiciary sent a detailed letter to their respective Republican Chairmen outlining their demand for an immediate investigation into the actions of President Donald Trump, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and top White House aides: “We are writing to request that the Oversight Committee and the Judiciary Committee launch an immediate joint investigation into whether President Donald Trump and his top officials are engaged in an ongoing conspiracy to obstruct the criminal, counter-intelligence, and oversight investigations currently being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Justice, and Congress into members of his presidential campaign and their contacts with Russian officials.” The letter explains: “Given the gravity of the events that have occurred over the past several weeks, there is simply no reasonable question that the Oversight Committee and Judiciary Committee should already be conducting a robust investigation of these issues that includes public hearings, document requests, and interviews and depositions. It is unacceptable to continue ignoring these scandals.” With respect to the Oversight Committee’s lack of action to date, the letter states: “Although Chairman Chaffetz recently sent a letter to the Department of Justice Inspector General, we believe that response is anemic—especially for the Oversight Committee, which claims to be the premiere investigative body in the House of Representatives—and particularly in comparison to the multiple ‘emergency’ hearings he called and the unilateral subpoenas he issued as part of the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.” With respect to the Judiciary Committee’s lack of action to date, the letter states: “On several occasions—through at least four letters to Chairman Goodlatte, and in debate on three separate resolutions of inquiry debated in the Judiciary Committee—we have called for the Majority to take action ‘to ensure the integrity and independence of both the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation’.” The Members conclude: “We are concerned that the continued failure of House Republicans to take action in the face of this onslaught of allegations will cause significant damage to the faith that the American people have in the credibility and integrity of our Committees and the House of Representatives. We have a solemn obligation under the Constitution to act as a check on the Executive Branch and to hold President Trump accountable. It is time to do our job.” The letter requests an immediate public hearing with Director Comey and copies of all of the FBI Director’s memos relating to the President, as well as all associated agency and White House records, including any audio tapes, and notes, if they exist. The letter also requests that the Oversight Committee schedule an immediate vote on a motion to subpoena the White House to produce documents it has been withholding in response to the bipartisan request from Ranking Member Cummings and Chairman Chaffetz on March 22, 2017. All Democratic Members of the Oversight Committee sent a letter to Chairman Chaffetz on April 27, 2017, insisting that he press the White House to produce these documents, but the Chairman refused to even hold a meeting. Click here to read the full letter. List of Members Signing Letter Elijah E. Cummings John Conyers, Jr. Ranking Member Ranking Member Committee on Oversight and Committee on the Judiciary Government Reform Carolyn Maloney Eleanor Holmes Norton Jerrold Nadler Wm. Lacy Clay Zoe Lofgren Stephen F. Lynch Sheila Jackson Lee Jim Cooper Steve Cohen Gerald E. Connolly Henry Johnson Robin L. Kelly Luis Gutierrez Brenda L. Lawrence Karen Bass Bonnie Watson Coleman Cedric Richmond Stacey E. Plaskett Hakeem Jeffries Val Butler Demings David Cicilline Raja Krishnamoorthi Eric Swalwell Jamie Raskin Ted Lieu Peter Welch Pramila Jayapal Matt Cartwright Bradley Schneider Mark DeSaulnier Theodore Deutch John Sarbanes -30-
05.11.2017	-WASHINGTON, DC Note: The following, in its entirety, is all first-person from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “As a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I fully support and commend Chairman Jason Chaffetz’s decision to request a probe by the Department of Justice Inspector General into the troubling circumstances surrounding President Donald J. Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey. The integrity of our democracy is literally under assault, and the only way to defend it is to discover the whole truth and follow the evidence wherever it leads.” -30-
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, slammed House Republicans vote to approve TrumpCare, a merciless and morally bankrupt bill that will harm millions of Americans. “The dangerous reality of TrumpCare, which House Republicans approved today without even reading the bill or knowing what it will cost is simply this…24 million Americans will lose their healthcare coverage; guaranteed coverage for preexisting conditions will be eliminated; essential patient benefits will be lost; Medicaid will be devastated; and Medicare will be robbed of billions of dollars,” said Mr. Clay. “It’s no wonder why they were in a huge rush to push this poisonous prescription down the throats of the American people. Make no mistake, TrumpCare will cost lives. And every Republican who voted for it today will own this shameful betrayal of the American people forever. History will judge them. So will the voters.” TrumpCare’s Devastating Impact on Healthcare in St. Louis and across the United States 24 million Americans will lose their health coverage – including 14 million in 2018 alone; 38,000 citizens in Missouri’s 1st CD could be stripped of their healthcare coverage. Guaranteed coverage for those patients with preexisting conditions is gone. Essential patient benefits will be lost. TrumpCare is opposed by the AARP, the American Medical Association, the American Cancer Society, the American Diabetes Association, the American Nurses Association and virtually every other group that represents healthcare providers and healthcare advocates. Under the GOP bill, 19 percent of the nonelderly population will be uninsured in 2026, compared to 10 percent in 2026 under current law. The bill would have the effect of slashing Medicaid by $880 billion over the next 10 years. Under the GOP bill, a 64-year-old with an income of $26,500 in the individual market will pay $12,900 more in their premiums each year. The bill gives $600 billion in tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans and large corporations – including $2.8 billion to the 400 richest families in America alone. -30-
04.20.2017	ST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has nominated thirteen remarkable young people from across the 1st Congressional District to attend one of our nation’s military service academies. These highly competitive nominations are awarded annually after a rigorous review process. In a ceremony at the University of Missouri – St. Louis, Mr. Clay told the nominees, “Each year, the exceptional young people whom I am honored to nominate to our nation’s military service academies restore my faith that America’s future is in good hands. You have already demonstrated the highest standards of academic achievement, athletic ability, personal character and community service. And now, you are ready to step forward and join in a long tradition of volunteers who stood tall in the defense of freedom. Generations of brave men and women have gone before you. I know that you will honor their legacy with your service and I am immensely proud of all of you.” Congressman Clay’s 2017 U.S. Service Academy Nominees: Caleb Berry Tower Grove Christian Academy U.S. Military Academy Carson Berry Saint Louis University High School U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy Alana Chandler Lutheran North High School U.S. Military Academy Dylan Crawford Hazelwood West High School U.S. Naval Academy David Le Cleveland Junior Naval R.O.T.C. Academy U.S. Naval Academy Robert Shields, Jr. Missouri Military Academy U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy Katherine Stujenske Stanford Online High School U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy Jennifer Thomas McKinley Classical Leadership Academy U.S. Military Academy Brendan Farmer North County Christian School U.S. Naval Academy Josiah Goosen Veritas Press Scholars Academy U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy Laryn Grant McCluer North High School U.S. Military Academy Austin LaRue Gateway Science Academy U.S. Naval Academy Darric Woodley McCluer High School U.S. Naval Academy -30-
04.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO) and St. Louis artist David Pulphus announced today that they plan to appeal a preliminary decision by D.C. Federal Circuit Court Judge John D. Bates rejecting their First Amendment legal claims. The case stemmed from the Architect of the Capitol’s unprecedented removal of David Pulphus’ artwork (“Untitled #1”) from the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol Complex. The artwork was removed in February, following a series of complaints by conservative media outlets and Republican Members of Congress and Leadership. The Architect had previously approved the hanging of the painting and it was displayed for over six months without incident along with winning entries from other Congressional Districts as part of the annual Congressional Arts Competition. Prior to its removal, several Republican Members of Congress took down the artwork without authorization. Rep. Clay and Mr. Pulphus issued the following joint, first-person statement in connection with the appeal: “Our nation was founded on the very principle of freedom of speech, and there are few places where that core freedom warrants greater respect than the U.S. Capitol. That is why we are confident that the U.S. Court of Appeals will eventually vindicate not only our legal rights, but those of the American people. We believe our Constitution simply cannot tolerate a situation where artwork can be removed from the Capitol for the first time ever as a result of a series of ideologically and politically driven complaints.” Last Friday, in the case known as Pulphus v. Ayers, the lower court denied the plaintiffs’ request for preliminary injunction relating to the retroactive removal of Mr. Pulphus’ artwork. In so doing, the court recognized the plaintiffs’ standing to seek relief, and that the artwork was removed because of its viewpoint, which is ordinarily legally protected. The remaining legal issue concerns whether the display of the artwork -- which was sponsored by Rep. Clay and depicts social injustice following the tragic events in Ferguson -- constitutes “government speech” as the Architect argues, or is a “limited public forum” as has been established in a number of comparable situations. Rep. Clay and Mr. Pulphus are being represented on a pro bono basis by a distinguished group of attorneys including Leah Tulin of Jenner & Block; James Williams of Chehardy, Sherman, Williams; Kymberly Evanson, of the Pacifica Law Group; as well as two of the nation’s preeminent constitutional law scholars -- Laurence Tribe, the Carl M. Loeb University Professor at Harvard University; and Erwin Chemerinsky, the founding Dean and Distinguished Professor of Law and Raymond Pryke Professor of First Amendment Law at the University of California – Irvine School of Law. -30-
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri; Congressman Jason Smith (R) Missouri; Senator Sherrod Brown (D) Ohio and Senator Lamar Alexander (R) Tennessee have teamed up to introduce the African American Civil Rights Network Act of 2017. This bipartisan legislation would authorize the National Park Service to establish a program to preserve and protect the memory of the people and places that were significant in the struggle to secure equal rights for African Americans during the modern civil rights era between 1939-1968. The act has already gathered 72 cosponsors in the U.S. House. “The purpose of our legislation is to recognize, preserve, protect and share the remarkable American story of the modern struggle for civil rights, a unique national experience that touches every American, regardless of their age or heritage,” said Mr. Clay. “The historic network would create tremendous educational opportunities by recognizing those brave souls from all walks of life who fought to make the promises enshrined in our constitution finally ring true.” The Congressman added, “In many places across this country, precious historic waypoints along the routes of that still largely untold story are at risk of being lost forever. My hope is that the historic civil rights trails and the programs that will grow from this act will honestly tell the full and sometimes painful story of the struggle for civil rights, not just for African Americans, but to foster healing, tolerance and understanding among all Americans. I urge my colleagues to cosponsor this important new legislation.” This new bill is similar to legislation that created The National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Act of 1998, presently administered by the National Park Service. It directs the Secretary of the Interior to identify and create a national network of historic sites, stories, research facilities and educational programs connected to the modern African American Civil Rights Movement. The bill is supported by the NAACP; the National Trust for Historic Preservation; the National Urban League and the National Parks Conservation Association. -30-
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – More than two and a half years after the tragic death of Mike Brown in Ferguson, Missouri; and as the nation continues to struggle to address the dangerous gulf of mistrust between local law enforcement agencies and communities, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Congressman Steve Cohen (D) Tennessee, and Senator Tammy Duckworth (D) Illinois are teaming up to introduce the Police Training and Independent Review Act of 2017. “In the wake of Ferguson, MO; Staten Island, NY; Cleveland, OH; Sanford, FL, St. Paul, MN; Memphis, TN; North Charleston, SC; Baltimore, MD; and far too many other communities…the urgent need to require all police officers to receive specialized sensitivity training to help them deescalate volatile situations remains an urgent public safety priority,” said Mr. Clay. “This bill would protect both police officers and the citizens they serve. I am proud to coauthor it with my good friend, Congressman Steve Cohen of Memphis, Tennessee and my bi-state colleague, Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois. Our legislation would require sensitivity training in the areas of race, ethnic bias, disabilities, and interactions with new immigrants. It would also establish incentives to encourage states to adopt new laws to require an independent prosecutor in all cases when police use deadly force. Our legislation incorporates key findings and recommendations from the Ferguson Commission. The new legislation, which has already earned the support of 91 cosponsors, would require all local law enforcement agencies who receive full federal Byrne-JAG funding to ensure that enrollees at law enforcement academies receive sensitivity training on ethnic and racial bias, cultural diversity, and police interaction with the disabled, mentally ill, and new immigrants. Both new police academy candidates and active duty police officers would be required to complete the enhanced training on an annual basis. The act would also incentivize states to adopt laws requiring independent investigations and prosecutions of law enforcement officers in cases where one or more of the alleged offenses involve an officer’s use of deadly force in the course of carrying out his or her official duties. That concept, which Congressman Clay first called for in the aftermath of the tragic death of Mike Brown in Ferguson, MO in 2014, would help repair the deep divisions of distrust that still persist in many urban communities between police officers and the citizens they are sworn to serve and protect. -30-
03.17.2017	-WASHINGTON, DC Note: The following, in its entirety, is all first-person from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “A budget is a reflection of our values and our priorities. The President is picking winners and losers; and it’s painfully clear that seniors, women, young people, minorities and the rural poor would lose a great deal. That includes millions of voters who supported him. Mr. Trump’s dangerous and damaging budget plan would also starve life-saving research efforts to find cures that could save millions of lives, while he provides tax breaks for billionaires. The Trump budget will also endanger federal efforts to clean up nuclear waste and to safeguard pure water and clean air. Just like his healthcare bill, the Trump budget is a toxic prescription that would make America weaker, not stronger.” -30-
03.14.2017	Trumpcare Will Make America Sicker, Not Stronger Over 300,000 Missourians Could Become Uninsured WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, slammed the Republican Trumpcare ‘Pay More For Less’ repeal bill after the Congressional Budget Office released a report detailing the terrible human costs of the GOP plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “After all of the Republicans’ hollow promises, the devastating reality of their cruel plan has been revealed,” said Mr. Clay. “It’s no wonder why they pushed this reckless and irresponsible mess forward in the middle of the night and are in such a huge rush to force this poisonous prescription down the throats of the American people. Their bill would deprive 24 million Americans of their healthcare coverage while handing billionaires a deficit-busting tax break. And it will also significantly weaken Medicare and Medicaid. Trumpcare will make America sicker, not stronger; and I will work tirelessly to defeat it.” Key Findings of the CBO Report 24 million Americans will lose their health coverage – including 14 million in 2018 alone 301,000 individuals across Missouri who have gained coverage via the ACA could lose their coverage. 38,000 citizens in Missouri’s 1st CD could be stripped of their healthcare coverage 225,878 individuals in Missouri who received financial assistance to purchase ACA Marketplace coverage in 2016, averaging $315 per individual, are at risk of having coverage become unaffordable under the Republican plan. Women in the state who can now purchase insurance for the same price as men are at risk of being charged more for insurance if the Republican Congress eliminates the ACA’s ban on gender rating. Under the GOP bill, 19 percent of the nonelderly population will be uninsured in 2026, compared to 10 percent in 2026 under current lawalmost doubling the number of uninsured Americans The bill would have the effect of slashing Medicaid by $880 billion over the next 10 years. Under the GOP bill, a 64-year-old with an income of $26,500 in the individual market will pay $12,900 more in their premiums each year. By defunding Planned Parenthood for one year, the bill would have the result of many women losing access to care, including contraceptives and other family planning services. The bill gives $600 billion in tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans and large corporations – including $2.8 billion to the 400 richest families in America alone. -30-
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – On the heels of filing a federal lawsuit in defense of the First Amendment rights of his young constituent, St. Louis artist David Pulphus, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that Professor Laurence H. Tribe of Harvard Law School, and Dean Erwin Chemerinsky of the University of California - Irvine School of Law, two of America’s most honored constitutional law scholars, have joined his pro bono legal team. “Professor Laurence Tribe and Dean Erwin Chemerinsky are two of our nations’ preeminent advocates in defense of the First Amendment,” said the Congressman. “I am deeply honored and exceedingly grateful to both of them for investing their energy and constitutional expertise to advance this important case. Their voices will magnify the urgent efforts of my exceptional pro bono legal team who are striving to restore David Pulphus’ First Amendment right which was arbitrarily and unconstitutionally suppressed by the Architect of the Capitol. After a chilling and unconstitutional decree from the Architect of the Capitol that freedom of expression is no longer protected in the U.S. Capitol, I was compelled to seek justice for David Pulphus and legal experts are beginning to take notice of the dangerous precedent set forth,” said Clay. Professor Tribe, a professor of constitutional law at Harvard Law School and the Carl M. Loeb University Professor at Harvard University said, “A teen-aged artist from Missouri, David Pulphus, won the right to display a painting portraying a protest against social injustice in the wake of the Ferguson tragedy. That artwork, displayed in the Capitol Building’s Cannon Tunnel for over half a year without incident, was David’s winning entry in the annual Congressional Art Competition. It met all the competition’s guidelines and was selected to represent Congressman Clay’s district. Yet, government officials repeatedly removed it at the insistence of House leadership objecting to the painting’s supposedly ‘reprehensible’ and ‘disgusting’ political content – despite Congressman Clay’s repeated attempts to rehang it. These flagrant and repeated acts of unauthorized government censorship threaten the very fabric of an open society committed to freedom of expression under the First Amendment. I couldn’t stand by and let that happen, so I agreed to help end the constitutional violation on a pro bono basis.” Erwin Chemerinsky, the founding Dean and Distinguished Professor of Law, and Raymond Pryke Professor of First Amendment Law, at the University of California - Irvine School of Law added, “One of the most basic principles of the First Amendment is that the government, when it provides a forum for speech, cannot exclude expression based on the viewpoint expressed. Congress here held a competition and promised to display the artwork. David Pulphus’ winning work was removed solely because some congressional leaders don’t like his perceived views. That is inconsistent with the core of the First Amendment: the government cannot censor speech just because it does not like the message.” Professors Tribe and Chemerinsky join the already distinguished pro bono legal team in Pulpus v. Ayers which includes Attorneys Leah Tulin of Jenner & Block; James Williams of Chehardy, Sherman, Williams; and Kymberly Evanson, of the Pacifica Law Group. The initial hearing in Pulphus v. Ayers is scheduled to be heard in Federal District Court in Washington, DC on March 15, 2017 -30-
03.06.2017	-WASHINGTON, DC Note: The following, in its entirety, is all first-person from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “President Trump’s revised Muslim travel ban is cruel, ineffective, and counterproductive to our national security. It will do nothing to keep America safe but it will empower the extremists who wish to do us harm. We must continue to welcome and defend refugees and immigrants without discriminating against them on the basis of their religion or country of origin. And we will demand equal protection under the law for all, as required by the Constitution. Since the 9-11 attacks, there has not been a single case where a refugee admitted to the United States committed a terrorist attack. And this revised Muslim travel ban does not even cover the nations that produced the 9-11 terrorists. Those are the facts, and the refugee vetting process, which takes almost two years, is already very strict. It works. People of faith across this country are united in opposing this terrible, totally un-American action that violates our core values, contributes nothing to our national security, and emboldens extremism.” -30-
02.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued the following first-person statement after an anti-Semitic hate-crime was committed at the historic Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery in University City, Missouri: “This appalling and shameful act of anti-Semitic hatred, committed on holy ground, must be condemned by all persons of faith and by all who respect the rule of law. Chesed Shel Emeth cemetery is a historic final resting place for generations of St. Louis’ Jewish community. It is a sacred space of peace, respect and honored memory. We must come together to support all the families who have been affected and we must oppose this hateful act with all our strength, faith and solidarity.” -30-
02.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri went to federal court this morning to protect the 1st Amendment rights of a young constituent and to defend the Constitution. Mr. Clay, Missouri’s senior Democrat in Congress, filed a lawsuit alleging that the Honorable Stephen Ayers, the Architect of the U.S. Capitol, had arbitrarily and unconstitutionally suppressed, and retroactively censored, the award-winning painting entitled “Untitled #1,” created by young St. Louis artist David Pulphus, which earned 1st place honors in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition in Missouri’s 1st congressional district. In remarks outside of the E. Barrett Prettyman U.S. Courthouse, Congressman Clay, said in part: “David’s remarkable painting…Untitled #1…had been on peaceful public display for seven months in the Cannon tunnel of the U.S. Capitol complex…along with all the other winning entries from across the nation. His artwork was initially reviewed, accepted and approved for public display under the very same standards and criteria that apply to all student entries in this prestigious, annual competition. And yet, after being viewed repeatedly by Members of Congress, congressional staffers, and thousands of visitors without incident or concern; David’s painting was wrongly disqualified and removed from the public exhibit at the direction of the Architect of the Capitol who shamefully chose to retroactively censor and suppress Mr. Pulphus’ artwork in response to the enormous political pressure he experienced from the Speaker of the House and certain right-wing media outlets. We contend that action was unfair, arbitrary and unconstitutional. And beyond that injustice…this intolerable and unprecedented action by the Architect of the Capitol has not only deprived my constituent of his 1st Amendment rights; It has also sent a chilling message to young Americans that their voices are not respected; their views are not valued; and their freedom of expression is no longer protected in the U.S. Capitol. So this case is truly about something much bigger than a student’s painting, it is about defending our fundamental 1st Amendment freedoms which are currently under assault in this country. And that includes the right to artistic expression…even when that creativity is considered objectionable by some, and applauded by others. That right is strongly protected by Supreme Court precedent. I am seeking an appropriate remedy through this federal litigation and I’m proud to defend both the fundamental rights of my constituent and the 1st Amendment. And I would also like to thank my exceptional, pro bono legal team: Leah Tulin, of Jenner & Block…a former Federal District court law clerk; James Williams, of Chehardy, Sherman, Williams...a former civil court district judge; And Kymberly Everson, of the Pacifica Law Group. As a Member of Congress who reveres the Constitution…I am confident that justice will prevail.” -30-
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON – As troubling questions regarding President Donald J. Trump’s alleged multiple conflicts of interest stemming from his complex web of family business interests grow, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, the Ranking Member on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit has joined with Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D) New Jersey, a senior Member of the House Ways & Means Committee to demand the release of President Donald J. Trump’s tax returns. “The President assured taxpayers that he would release his tax returns if he won,” said Mr. Clay. “The election was more than 90-days ago and the American people are still waiting for the truth. They need to know if the President or members of his family are benefiting from payments from foreign governments, licensing fees, royalties or other income sources that could potentially violate the emoluments clause of the U.S. Constitution. They also need to know that this administration’s decisions are not influenced by self-interest.” The joint letter to House Ways & Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R) Texas and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R) states in part: The Founding Fathers were so determined to prevent corruption among public officeholders that they wrote into our Constitution the foreign emoluments clause. Yet President Trump has chosen to keep an ownership stake in his businesses, in which we know that state-owned enterprises in China and the United Arab Emirates are involved. We know that his business ties stretch to India, Turkey, the Philippines, and beyond. None of these potential conflicts and violations of the emoluments clause can be verified until and unless we have disclosure from President Trump. The Chairmen of the Joint Committee on Taxation, the Senate Finance Committee, and the House Committee on Ways and Means have the authority to request copies of President Trump’s tax returns under Section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code. Disclosure would serve the public interest of clarifying President Trump’s conflicts of interest in office, the potential for him to personally benefit from tax reform, and ensure that he is not receiving any preferential treatment from the IRS. Breaking with forty years of precedent, President Trump continues to refuse to make public his tax returns. The last time a President tried to keep his tax returns hidden, the Congress acted. In 1973 and 1974, the Joint Committee on Taxation reviewed and made public President Nixon’s tax returns. Following a leak that then-President Nixon had paid very little in taxes, the Committee’s nonpartisan staff reviewed his returns and found that Nixon owed almost $500,000 in additional taxes over four years. Due to the significance of the issue to the country, the Committee exercised its authority and voted 9-to-1 to release the information to the public.” -30-
01.30.2017	STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI THIS EVENING ON THE STEPS OF THE U.S. SUPREME COURT -WASHINGTON, DC Note: The following, in its entirety, is all first-person from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “President Trump’s Muslim travel ban and complete ban on admitting refugees is not only illegal, it’s un-American, mean-spirited, and will harm national security. We will defend and welcome refugees, we will resist discrimination based on religion and national origin, and we will demand equal treatment under the law for all. Since the 9-11 attacks, there has not been a single instance where a refugee admitted to the United States committed a terrorist attack. Those are the facts, and the vetting process, which takes almost two years, is already very strict. It works. Besides violating the Constitution, this Executive Order will weaken the United States across the world by giving aid, comfort and increased motivation to jihadist extremists who wish to do us harm. We can’t have a President who acts without thinking about how his actions harm innocent people and violate who we are as Americans. People of faith across this country are united in opposing this terrible, totally un-American action that violates the law and our core values. Our faith compels us to be kind to the stranger, and to comfort the oppressed. And as the leader of my church, Pope Francis, said just yesterday: “You cannot reject refugees and call yourself a Christian.” -30-
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued the following first-person statement this afternoon in support of striking members of Locals 41 and 313 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM) who have been forced out on strike by the American Pulverizer Company in St. Louis. FIRST-PERSON FROM CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI “I stand in solidarity with the striking IAM workers at the American Pulverizer Company in their fight to restore dignity and fairness in their workplace. For twelve long weeks these valiant workers have steadfastly resisted the short-sighted and misguided attempts by a profitable company to impose drastic cuts in health care and other vital benefits. I am appalled that American Pulverizer wants to strip away the workers right to take part in important union activities while at the same time seeking to change the “management rights clause” to give the company the ability to dictate arbitrary changes in work rules. When labor and management work together we succeed as a nation. Now is the time for the company to sit down and bargain seriously in good faith with the workers and their union, who, since 1948, have made American Pulverizer one the most dependable manufacturers of rock and coal crushing equipment in the U.S.” -30-
01.17.2017	WASHINGTON – After the Architect of the Capitol removed Untitled #1, the winning entry from Missouri’s 1st congressional district in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition (following criticism of the artwork by Speaker Ryan and several GOP Members of Congress), Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri and Congressman Cedric L. Richmond (D) Louisiana, Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, issued the following first-person statements: STATEMENTS BY CONGRESSMAN WM, LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI AND CONGRESSMAN CEDRIC L. RICHMOND, CHAIRMAN, CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS FIRST-PERSON FROM MR. CLAY “By his unprecedented and unconstitutional action, following criticism of the artwork by Speaker Ryan and several GOP Members, the Architect of the Capitol acted to suppress the free speech rights of my constituent, and they have also sent a chilling message to young Americans that their voices are not respected, their views are not valued, and their freedom of expression is no longer protected in the U.S. Capitol. The assertion that the painting did not comply with the rules of the Congressional Art Competition is arbitrary and insulting. Like the other 400+ entries, this painting was accepted and approved by the Congressional Art Competition last spring, and it has been peacefully displayed in a public forum for more than six months. David Pulphus’ remarkable artwork will be relocated and displayed in a place of honor in my Capitol Hill office. But this is now about something much bigger than a student’s painting, it is about defending our fundamental 1st Amendment freedoms which include the right to free expression; even when that creativity is considered objectionable by some, and applauded by others. I plan to seek reversal of the Architect’s determination in short order. Supreme Court precedent clearly falls on the side of artistic freedom as protected speech. As a Member who reveres the 1st Amendment, I can assure you that I will redouble my efforts to defend it, and ultimately, the Constitution will prevail.” ======= FIRST-PERSON FROM CHAIRMAN RICHMOND: “I support our police, but I also support the rights of those in the communities we represent to express frustrations with their day-to-day realities. Unfortunately, politics has yet again trumped common sense. Rather than engage in a thoughtful dialogue about what would motivate an 18 year-old to express himself in this way, the Architect of the Capitol and Congressional leaders have chosen to exercise their power to suppress a child’s free expression.” View the letter of removal from the Architect of the Capitol. (pdf)
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON – This afternoon, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri took strong exception to comments made by Speaker Paul Ryan on the Mike Gallagher radio program earlier today in which the Speaker stated that Untitled #1, the winning entry from Missouri’s 1st congressional district in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition had in the words of the Speaker: “Slipped by.” “From the beginning, this has really been about just two simple things...standing up for my 18-year old constituent, and defending the 1st Amendment,” said Mr. Clay. “This painting by David Pulphus, just like the other 400+ entries, was accepted and approved by the Congressional Art Competition and it has been peacefully displayed in a public forum for more than six months. The only difference is that the Speaker and his Republican colleagues are attempting to suppress free speech with their own brand of retroactive, vigilante censorship against my constituent. Apparently, they believe that the 1st Amendment does not protect him. That’s not only mean-spirited and wrong, it’s also unconstitutional.” -30-
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON – As Republican efforts to attack the 1st Amendment guarantee of freedom of expression continue in the U.S. House, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri and his colleague, Congressman Jamie Raskin (D) Maryland, who is himself a constitutional scholar and instructor at American University on that same subject; sent an urgent letter to Speaker Paul Ryan (R) Wisconsin, asking him to turn aside calls to deprive a talented young American of his constitutional rights. In the letter, which is attached in its entirely, Mr. Clay and Mr. Raskin noted that U.S. Supreme Court precedent clearly overrides any other restrictions or objections to artwork displayed in a limited public forum, regardless of whether that artwork is considered to be objectionable by some. The letter notes in-part: “In America we don’t arrest artwork. As the Member who sponsored the art work at issue and a Member who is a First Amendment constitutional scholar, we write to express our grave concern that you may follow up on an act of vigilante censorship in the House of Representatives by taking formal steps to remove a painting by St. Louis Cardinal Ritter College Prep High School Senior David Pulphus from display on a wall in the tunnel between the Cannon House Office Building and the Capitol. The young man’s painting depicts a scene involving police officers pointing their guns at an African-American man, with the two officers and the African-American man all appearing to have animal-like facial features. The painting appears to show protesters in the background. We believe that removing this work – which has been on display for six months as one of more than 400 winning high school entries selected from each congressional district through the annual Congressional Art Competition – would be a violation of First Amendment free speech rights. As the Supreme Court’s majority put it in Texas v. Johnson (1989) in a famous opinion that drew the support of Justice Antonin Scalia as well as Justice William Brennan: “If there is a bedrock principle underlying the First Amendment, it is that the Government may not prohibit the expression of an idea simply because society finds the idea itself offensive or disagreeable.” The argument that the First Amendment does not protect Mr. Pulphus in this case because his painting violates the rules of the Congressional Art Competition or because the House may enforce decorum is unavailing. We have no power to censor citizens based on their political viewpoint in the name of official “decorum.” By opening the Cannon tunnel (not the floor of the House) to the display of privately-created artwork by high school students in each Member’s district, the House has made the Cannon tunnel a limited public forum for these purposes, reserving the tunnel for a particular group (in this case, the selected student artists whose work has been so installed) to express themselves. As the Supreme Court has made clear, once the government “has opened a limited forum . . . [it] must respect the lawful boundaries it has itself set. [It] may not exclude speech where its distinction is not reasonable in light of the purpose served by the forum . . . nor may it discriminate against speech on the basis of its viewpoint.” This painting has already been selected and approved for display under the existing rules and procedures set by the House for the Congressional Art Competition. It passed the only legitimate screen, which is one of artistic merit and esthetic excellence. It has been on display for six months and has not harmed a single person over the course of that time. Stripping it from the competition under the guise of “protecting decorum” is an obvious pretext for violating Mr. Pulphus’ freedom of expression as an American.” Read the full letter (pdf)
12.14.2016	“Today’s agreement by the St. Louis County Family Court to enter into a consent decree with the U.S. Department of Justice is a victory for the constitution and for the juveniles who will encounter the justice system and finally enjoy equal protection under the law…which should include an opportunity to make a fresh start. For more than two years, I have been pressing the St. Louis County Family Court to urgently address and correct the horrendous, multiple constitutional violations of the rights of juveniles, many of whom were African American, as revealed by the U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division report released in August of 2015. I want to commend both the judges of the St. Louis County Family Court and the tireless staff of the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division for reaching this transformative and long-overdue agreement. When fully and faithfully implemented, this consent decree will truly represent a new beginning for juvenile justice in St. Louis County.” -30-
10.27.2016	Proudly Serving Missouri’s 1st Congressional District FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 27, 2016 MEDIA CONTACT: (CLAY) STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 (CUMMINGS) JENNIFER WERNER (202) 226-5181 (SERRANO) PAOLA AMADOR (202) 225-4361 Members Oppose Proposed Rule to Count Incarcerated Individuals at Prison Facilities Instead of Last Known Address WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), José E. Serrano (D-NY) and Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO) sent a letter to U.S. Census Bureau Population Division Chief Karen Humes urging the Bureau to amend a proposed rule, which would allow states to count incarcerated persons at prison facilities at which they are incarcerated on Census Day, instead of their last known address. The Members wrote, “the Bureau’s process of counting prisoners where prisoners are imprisoned, instead of at their last known address before incarceration allows state governments to participate in prison gerrymandering. The crafters of legislative districts engage in prison gerrymandering when they include prisons in districts where none of the incarcerated reside.” State and federal correctional facilities held an estimated 1.6 million prisoners on December 31, 2013, including a disproportionately high number of African-American and Latino men who often reside in low-income urban areas before entering prison. Failing to count incarcerated individuals in their home communities also affects the federal resources these communities receive. According to the Bureau, the census helps determine the allocation of more than $400 billion in federal dollars annually, including funding for critical projects like new schools and hospitals. As a result, federal funding is shifted from prisoners’ home districts to the district in which the prison is located, which causes their families, neighbors, and communities to suffer at the expense of communities to which they have no ties. Earlier this year, the Federal District Court for Florida’s Northern District ruled that Jefferson County, Florida violated its residents’ 14th Amendment right by including the prison population in its district. Some states have enacted legislation to prevent prison gerrymandering—requiring or encouraging local governments to count incarcerated citizens in their district of last known address rather than the district in which they are incarcerated. While the proposed rule would allow the states that have enacted legislation to prevent prison gerrymandering to continue doing so, the Members called on the Census Bureau to set a federal standard to prevent prison gerrymandering in all states. The Members continued, “The Bureau should be commended for its proposed efforts in this matter. However, it is clear the Census needs to do more to prevent prison gerrymandering by counting incarcerated prisoners at their last known address before incarceration, and not at their prison address.” The letter was also signed by Reps. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-NY), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (D-VA), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Stacey E. Plaskett (D-VI). -30-
09.28.2016	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "For more than seven decades, Shimon Peres stood as a pillar of strength, courage and innovation for the State of Israel and the Jewish people. With his death, the last of Israel's founding fathers has passed into history. But his visionary commitment to the pursuit of a secure, lasting peace among Israel and all her neighbors must continue. He believed, as do I, that the threads of our common humanity are ultimately stronger and far more powerful than the things that divide us. May his vision of peace come soon. I send my heartfelt condolences to his family, to the Israeli people and to my many friends in the St. Louis Jewish community. May his memory always be a blessing." -30-
09.22.2016	Proudly Serving Missouri’s 1st Congressional District NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “Today, I joined with my Congressional Black Caucus colleagues to urge the Department of Justice to require transparency, accountability and real transformation of local law enforcement agencies to stop the epidemic of killings of young African Americans at the hands of local police. The tragedies we have just witnessed in Tulsa and Charlotte show that the lessons of Ferguson have not yet been learned across the country. The criminal justice reform legislation that I have introduced, which among other things…would require the appointment of an independent prosecutor in all cases where police use deadly force, and would establish a federal financial incentive to help local police departments purchase and maintain body cameras for all officers…should be debated and passed without delay. I urge Speaker Ryan to act on criminal justice reform in this congress. And I will continue to work closely with the Department of Justice to ensure that every American is protected by constitutionally sound policing that they can trust.” -30-
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – In testimony before the House Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on the Environment and the Economy, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri laid bare the 74-year old legacy of nuclear waste in the St. Louis area, and the responsibility of the federal government to clean up their own mess. His appearance was in support of HR 4100, bipartisan legislation, which Mr. Clay cosponsored with Congresswoman Ann Wagner (R) Missouri, that would transfer primary authority over West Lake landfill from the Environmental Protection Agency to the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers Formally Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program (FUSRAP), which is already hard at work cleaning up nuclear waste at several locations in the St. Louis area. Identical legislation has already passed the U.S. Senate by a huge majority. In his testimony Congressman Clay noted in part: “We have a clear and unavoidable responsibility to finally clean up West Lake landfill. The bill before you was crafted with strong grass roots support from the Missouri Coalition for the Environment, Just Moms St. Louis (whose courageous founders are here today); and many other civic environmental activists to address a 74-year old nuclear legacy in St. Louis which has subjected families to fear and suffering for far too long. Unbelievably, this radioactive, toxic mess… dumped illegally at West Lake 43-years ago, is held in an unlined, limestone landfill. Near the Missouri River; near a major hospital; near Lambert St. Louis International Airport; near schools and interstate highways; and, most troubling of all…is the appalling fact that 1,000 of my constituents live less than a mile away from this illegal nuclear waste dump. The truth is that if you searched far and wide across this country… It would be almost impossible to find a dumber, more dangerous, more completely irresponsible place to dump nuclear waste… than West Lake Landfill. A few months ago, this identical legislation, introduced by my Missouri colleagues, Senators Blunt and McCaskill, was embraced and approved by a huge bipartisan majority in the U.S. Senate. Congresswoman Wagner and I introduced HR 4100 as a companion bill on the House side, and almost immediately…some of the forces who want to keep this nuclear waste in the unlined West Lake landfill, ganged up to stop it. I am greatly disappointed that this common sense bill has been delayed, obstructed, and even deliberately misrepresented by some staff and certain members of this committee. My friends, after 74-years of negligence by the United States government, that is totally indefensible. When the United States government makes a mistake; When we put citizens at risk; When we disrupt their lives; When we destroy the peace and property values in their neighborhoods; And when we allow the health of innocent citizens to be harmed because of our own inaction… We must make this right. The United States government created this nuclear mess at West Lake…and we have a responsibility to pass this bill and clean it up.” -30-
06.15.2016	Thousands of Eager Job Seekers Expected to Attend St. Louis’ Biggest & Best Free Jobs Event Monday, June 27th at Harris-Stowe State University MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 -ST.LOUIS- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will present his 11th Annual Career Fair on Monday, June 27th from 9:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m. at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center located at 3026 Laclede Avenue. This unique jobs event will feature over 100 of the St. Louis area’s top employers, and it’s absolutely free. These great companies will be seeking to fill over 1000 current job openings. “My top priority is putting my constituents back to work and connecting them with quality job opportunities that they could not take advantage of on their own.” said the Congressman. “Our Career Fair is St. Louis’ biggest and best jobs event. We will feature over 100 companies from all sectors of the local economy who are currently hiring, along with great job opportunities with federal, state and local government agencies.” The Congressman added, “Last year, over 5,000 job seekers attended. I would advise guests to arrive early, dress for success and have your resumes ready.” Among the top St. Louis employers who will be on hand are: Ameren; the Boeing Company; Express Scripts; BJC Healthcare Systems; Charter Spectrum; World Wide Technology; iHeart Radio; CBS Radio; Emmis Communications; Radio One; Centene Corporation; Wells Fargo Advisors; Lodging Hospitality Management; Launch Code; Lumiere Place; Hollywood Casino; PNC Bank; the U.S. Postal Service, the U.S. Census Bureau and many others. For those interested in public service, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for thousands of federal jobs, worldwide. OPM and the Veterans Administration will also offer special assistance to veterans who are transitioning back to civilian life. For more information, please call (314) 367-1970, and please check out the video link and electronic flyer as well https://www.facebook.com/109135405838588/videos/1023089351109851/
06.12.2016	NOTE: The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “Last night, 49 Americans were murdered by a terrorist because of who they were and who they loved. This horrendous, hateful attack will not break our determination to fight terrorism and to demand full equality and equal protection for every American. May God bless all the innocents who were lost, and may he heal their families in the face of this great tragedy." -30-
06.03.2016	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “History has come full circle in North St. Louis. A great federal failure will now be replaced by a transformative federal success. The final record of decision selecting North St. Louis as the site for the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency’s new western headquarters is a $1.75 billion victory…the largest single federal investment in the history of the City of St. Louis. Armed with the unanimous, bipartisan support of the Missouri congressional delegation…I have pursued this remarkable victory at the federal level for more than three years. But this wonderful news also represents something more profound than just a huge infusion of federal dollars. It is proof positive that when this community truly stands together… Democrats & Republicans: city & county; clergy; business; labor; universities and cultural institutions…St. Louis still knows how to win. I want to thank NGA Director Robert Cardillo for his diligent review of the facts and for making this wise decision that will advance NGA's vital national security mission and also provide the best possible environment for the exceptional employees who serve there. He recognized what we already knew… St. Louis is a special place where the best and brightest people want to work on the hardest problems of today and shape an unlimited future of promise and progress. Not just for this community…but for our country too. I want to again thank the entire Missouri congressional delegation; Governor Nixon; Mayor Slay; County Executive Stenger; The Missouri state legislature; The St. Louis County Council, and the St. Louis Board of Aldermen for their tremendous, bipartisan support. === After decades of disinvestment and depopulation, and after the national disgrace of Pruitt-Igoe, the NGA has made a powerful, positive choice that will once again place North St. Louis at the center of jobs; Innovation; Technology; Economic development; And defending freedom. Let me end by quoting Director Cardillo’s own words on his decision… “The future of our agency and our profession rests on our present talent and that of the next generations we can recruit onto our team.” “I am confident that we will build a facility in St. Louis that will be a remarkable home for us to master our craft and engage with our partners in a flexible, technologically advanced environment that is enticing to current and future generations.” I could not have said it better myself…North St. Louis is ready for NGA!” -30-
05.06.2016	Cardinal Ritter College Prep High School Senior David Pulphus has won Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay’s 16th Annual Congressional Art Competition. His visually stunning acrylic painting on canvas entitled, “Untitled #1” will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol Complex. Pulphus will travel to Washington, DC, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to unveil his winning entry. The painting portrays a colorful landscape of symbolic characters representing social injustice, the tragic events in Ferguson, Missouri and the lingering elements of inequality in modern American society. In his remarks to the overflow crowd of young artists, parents and teachers who gathered at Webster University’s new downtown St. Louis campus in the historic Arcade Building, Congressman Clay said, “Tonight, we are celebrating our sixteenth year of recognizing outstanding young artistic talent. As you can see from the artwork on display here, the level of talent is truly impressive. Your work is inspiring, and I encourage all of you to continue to develop your creative abilities.” The Congressional Competition is in its 32nd year nationally. This is the 16th year that Congressman Clay has conducted the competition in Missouri’s First Congressional District. Congratulations to all the young artists. Here are the results: 1st place - “Untitled #1” (Acrylic painting by David Pulphus , Cardinal Ritter College Prep) 2nd place - “Orchestra of Color” (Acrylic painting by Aireia Bullock, Roosevelt H.S) 3rd place - “Pride” (A work in charcoal by Xiemeng Xie, Lutheran South H.S.)
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Senators John Hoeven (R-N.D.) and Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) and U.S. Representatives Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) and José Serrano (D-N.Y.) today announced that both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives have now approved legislation to name the bison as the National Mammal of the United States. The Senate passed the National Bison Legacy Act in December and the U.S. House of Representatives passed its version Tuesday night. The bill was introduced by Senators Hoeven and Heinrich in the Senate and in the U.S. House of Representatives by Reps. Clay, Fortenberry, Noem and Serrano. The Senate sponsors expect the Senate to concur with the House bill later this week and send the legislation to the president to be signed into law. “No other indigenous species tells America’s story better than this noble creature. The American bison is an enduring symbol of strength, Native American culture and the boundless western wildness. It is an integral part of the still largely untold story of Native Americans and their historic contributions to our national identity. I was proud to sponsor and help pass this legislation in the House and I truly appreciate this show of bipartisan support from my Senate colleagues as well,” said Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. In addition to naming the bison as the U.S. national mammal, the National Bison Legacy Act recognizes the historical, cultural and economic significance of the bison, which is the largest land mammal in America and revered by many Native American tribes as a sacred and spiritual symbol of their heritage. The bison, like the bald eagle, has for many years been a symbol of America for its strength, endurance and dignity, reflecting the pioneer spirit of America,” Senator Hoeven said. “Both the Senate and the House have now passed the National Bison Legacy Act, which names this noble animal as our national mammal. This is a fitting designation that recognizes the important cultural and economic role the bison has played in our nation’s history.” “Bison are a uniquely American animal and are the embodiment of American strength and resilience,” said Senator Heinrich. “The bison has been an important part of our culture for many generations, especially in New Mexico, across the West, and in Indian Country. Recognition of our new national mammal will bring a new source of pride for Americans—just like the bald eagle—and also bring greater attention to ongoing conservation and species recovery efforts. I hope that in my lifetime, thanks to a broad coalition of conservation ranchers, wildlife advocates, and tribal nations, we will see bison return to the prominent place they once occupied in our nation’s shortgrass prairies.” “The Tatanka is important both physically and spiritually in Native American culture. This bill recognizes that,” said Congresswoman Noem. “Bison are a cultural example of how to live in a healthy and productive manner. There are also lessons to be learned about resilience from these animals, which were nearly being wiped from existence at one point. Through the efforts of tribes, ranchers, conservationists and others, the species has survived and can once again be lifted as a literal and cultural example of productivity from which each of us can learn.” “The bison has a special place not only in U.S. history, but also in the Bronx community. It is the largest land mammal native to the United States and thanks to the Wildlife Conservation Society and the Bronx Zoo, which took the lead in saving the bison from extinction more than a century ago, we can still enjoy its majesty today. The National Bison Legacy Act will help recognize the importance of Bison in American history, and will help bring attention to the unique role that the Bronx played in preserving that legacy,” said Congressman Serrano, a supporter of natural preservation and long-time supporter of this bill. “The adoption of bison as our National Mammal represents a validation of the many meaningful ways this animal represents America. As an ecological keystone, cultural bedrock and economic driver, the bison conveys values such as unity, resilience and commitment to healthy landscapes and communities. Bison takes a place alongside the bald eagle as a national symbol to be revered,” said John Calvelli, Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) Executive Vice President of Public Affairs. More than 40 million bison once roamed across most of North America, but by the late 1800s, fewer than one thousand bison remained. The species is acknowledged as the first American conservation success story, having been brought back from the brink of extinction by a concerted effort of ranchers, conservationists and politicians to save the species in the early 20th century. In 1905, President Theodore Roosevelt and the American Bison Society led an effort to save bison from extinction by establishing a captive breeding program at the Bronx Zoo. Within a few years, the program and others like it were successfully establishing bison back into its native habitat. Bison now live in all 50 states in public and private herds, providing recreation opportunities for wildlife viewers in zoos, refuges and parks, and sustaining the multimillion dollar bison ranching and production business. The bill sponsors thanked the Vote Bison Coalition, which is led by steering committee members the Inter-Tribal Buffalo Council, National Bison Association and Wildlife Conservation Society, for their advocacy and support to make the bison the National Mammal. The coalition counts more than 50 businesses, tribal groups and organizations who have banded together to support efforts to celebrate bison. -30-
04.20.2016	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. “I want to commend Treasury Secretary Jack Lew for his historic recommendation to place Harriet Tubman’s image on the new $20 bill. As an international icon of freedom, Harriet Tubman perfectly represents the bravery, resiliency and strength of American women whose historic contributions have been overlooked for far too long. This recommendation also recognizes the courage of generations of Black women who have stood on the vanguard of freedom from the time of the Underground Railroad; through the civil rights movement; to the fight to gain and protect the Right to Vote; to the current drive to transform our criminal justice system. I urge the Federal Reserve to approve Secretary Lew’s historic recommendation and act swiftly to get the new $20 bill into circulation as soon as possible.” -30-
04.01.2016	NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “History has come full circle in North St. Louis. A great federal failure will now be replaced by a transformative federal success. Today’s decision to select North St. Louis as the preferred site for the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency’s new western headquarters is a $1.7 billion victory…the largest single federal investment in the history of the City of St. Louis. But this victory also represents something more profound than just a huge infusion of federal dollars…it is proof positive that when this community truly stands together… Democrats & Republicans: City & County; clergy; business; labor; universities and cultural institutions… St. Louis still knows how to win. We have pursued this great victory at the federal level for more than three years. While not yet final, I am greatly encouraged by the preferred site selection and I eagerly await the Record of Decision in 60 days. But in the meantime, we need this community to stand up, step up and speak up to help us cement this historic victory by showing your strong support during the public comment period over the next few weeks. And we will be sharing more information about how you can do that soon. === After decades of disinvestment and depopulation, and after the national disgrace of Pruitt-Igoe, the NGA has made a powerful, positive choice that will once again place North St. Louis at the center of jobs, innovation, technology, economic development and defending freedom. I want to personally thank President Obama for responding to my pitch to keep NGA here with this bold commitment to rebuilding and transforming North St. Louis. The President has always been there for St. Louis, and we will continue to be there for him as he continues to use federal dollars to lift up urban neighborhoods. I also want to thank Director Cardillo for his diligent review of the facts and for making this wise decision that will advance NGA’s vital national security mission and also provide the best possible environment for the exceptional employees who serve there. He recognized what we already knew…St. Louis is a special place where the best and brightest people want to work on the hardest problems of today and shape an unlimited future of promise and progress…not just for this community, but for our country too. I want to thank the entire Missouri congressional delegation; Governor Nixon; Mayor Slay; County Executive Stenger; the Missouri State Legislature; the St. Louis County Council and the St. Louis Board of Aldermen for their tremendous support. I also want to thank the men and women of organized labor who have created a project labor agreement that will achieve an unprecedented level of minority and disadvantaged business participation on this $1.7 billion project. Finally, I want to thank Mr. Paul McKee and his team at Northside Regeneration. The simple truth is that without his vision, his risk-taking, and his faith in the future of North St. Louis….the City of St. Louis would have never been in a position to compete to win the new NGA-West headquarters. St. Louis and the NGA have been together for a long time…and I’m so pleased that we are going to stay together. North St. Louis is ready for NGA.” -30-
03.24.2016	Note: The following is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. “St. Louis is mourning the loss of a great lady who did so much good and served so well for decades. Miss Ida was not only a trusted friend and great supporter; she was truly a mentor to me and so many others. My thoughts and prayers go out to her family. We will never forget this incredible lady, educator and true civic treasure...Dr. Ida Goodwin Woolfolk.” -30-
03.16.2016	“I want to commend the Ferguson City Council for giving unanimous approval to the consent decree negotiated with the U.S. Department of Justice. I urge them to swiftly implement the settlement without delay This agreement is the product of a process that I initiated with then Attorney General Eric Holder just two days after Mike Brown was killed. The Justice Department patterns and practices investigation into the operations of the Ferguson Police Department and their municipal court, which I first requested, revealed 26 different constitutional violations. Ferguson was operating a racially-biased, municipal ATM machine on the backs of Black residents and other low-income people. That shouldn’t happen in America, and now, it must stop. Obeying the constitution is not optional…it’s the law. Ferguson now has an opportunity to turn all the tragedy, tumult and heartache of the last 19 months into something powerful and positive…a new standard of community-based policing that is accountable, transparent, diverse, and truly a model for what local law enforcement should look like. Hopefully, other departments in St. Louis County will follow their good example. The cost of this agreement may be high, but it’s nothing when compared to the price of allowing injustice to remain unchallenged and unchanged.” -30-
02.02.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 2, 2016 MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 ST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri welcomed House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Congressman Adam Schiff (D) California to St. Louis on Monday as they received a classified briefing at the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency and then toured a proposed site in North St. Louis, which if selected, would become home to the NGA’s new $1.6 billion western headquarters. That decision is expected in late March. “I was very pleased to welcome my friend and colleague, Congressman Adam Schiff (D) California, to St. Louis,” said Mr. Clay. “As the Ranking Member on the House Intelligence Committee, which has oversight of the NGA, I appreciated the opportunity to show him why the proposed Northside site is the right choice for NGA’s vital mission; the best choice for the 3100 talented employees who work there; the responsible choice for the taxpayers; and the greenest choice for protecting our environment.” “I could not be more impressed with what I’ve seen,” said Mr. Schiff, as he toured to proposed NGA Northside site. “I think there is a compelling case here. To me, this looks like a quintessential example of what a Promise Zone is supposed to be about.” To view video of Ranking Member Schiff’s comments, please go to: https://www.facebook.com/109135405838588/videos/939768759441911/ Congressman Clay added. “As I have already indicated, Presidential Executive Order 12072 directs that wherever possible, federal dollars should be targeted to restore economic opportunity and vitally to distressed neighborhoods that have suffered from decades of disinvestment and concentrated poverty.” The National Geospatial Agency (NGA) needs a new headquarters and must choose between North St. Louis and a site 35 miles outside of St. Louis. Executive Order 12072 requires that we give priority to urban areas when we move federal facilities. North St. Louis and North St. Louis County are in the federal Promise Zone. Locating NGA in the urban core will spur unprecedented private and public investment.
01.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 12, 2016 MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS NOTE: The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "Tonight, President Obama reminded the American people of the remarkable progress that we have accomplished under his leadership, and how far we still have to go to ensure a future where every American family enjoys security, prosperity and equal justice for all, instead of just for some. I share President Obama’s bold, optimistic vision of an America where working families are once again able to reach their dreams, where 100% healthcare coverage becomes a reality, where voting rights are restored and protected, where clean air and safe water are preserved for future generations, and where our nation finally overcomes intolerance and ignorance to become one American family. Our nation is stronger and safer because of President Obama’s courageous leadership. I look forward to helping him make his final year in office productive and powerful.”
12.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 18, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Backs Bipartisan Omnibus Spending Bill to Keep Federal Government Open Thru September 2016Funding Package Sustains Boeing Fighter Programs, Extends Earned Income Tax Credit for Lower-income Families, Increases NIH Funding for Lifesaving Research, Invests in Public SafetyWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after the U.S. House voted to approve a $1.1 trillion omnibus spending and tax credits bill, averting another Republican government shutdown and making key federal investments in jobs, healthcare, education, public safety, renewable energy and helping lower-income families.===“This compromise bill advances many of my key priorities, including federal support for skilled manufacturing; lifesaving medical research; hiring more police officers and transforming how they protect our communities; advancing renewable energy and extending the earned income tax credit which helps lift 24 million lower-income working families out of poverty.The funding package also includes $1 billion to build seven EA-18G Growlers and five F-18E/F Super Hornets – preserving 2,000 skilled manufacturing jobs at Boeing’s St. Louis County facility.I’m also pleased that the bill increases funding for the National Institutes of Health which annually provides hundreds of millions of dollars to support life-saving research at Washington University Medical Center and Saint Louis University Medical Center. That research not only creates hundreds of jobs, it is critical to advancing the fight against cancer, HIV/AIDs, diabetes, heart disease, Alzheimer’s and other serious illnesses.The package also includes grant funding via the Justice Department that could help the City of St. Louis and other local law enforcement agencies hire additional police officers and invest in body cameras which have been proven to reduce crime, curb the use of excessive force and reduce complaints against local police.Overall, the Omnibus bill is a major victory for working families.”Other Highlights of the Omnibus Spending Agreement· Renewable Energy: Provides a major boost to renewable energy by extending the wind Production Tax Credit for five years (through 2019), and extending the solar Investment Tax Credit for five years (through 2021), while phasing both credits down somewhat over time. Extending the solar tax credit is estimated to create 61,000 jobs in 2017 alone. It is also estimated that the wind industry will grow to over 100,000 jobs over four years with the renewed wind tax credit.· Energy Efficiency and Clean Energy R&D: Provides an 8 percent increase over 2015 for R&D activities in the pursuit of new clean energy and energy efficiency technologies.· Overall Education:The bill restores the $2.5 billion cut in education that the GOP had proposed and also makes critical additional investments of $1.4 billion above 2015, in such areas as Title I that serves 24 million at-risk students.· Early Learning: Investing in Head Start produces results – and this bill invests nearly $400 million more than the House GOP bill and nearly $600 million more than 2015 in this vital initiative. The bill also provides $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, assisting 18 states across the country. · Medical Research: Medical research at NIH has been underfunded for the last several years. This bill provides $900 million more than the House GOP bill and $2 billion more than 2015 for this life-saving research.· Infrastructure: The popular TIGER grants are being used across the country to repair infrastructure and contribute to economic growth. The House GOP bill had slashed TIGER grants by 80 percent, killing jobs, but this bill restores the funding to the 2015 level of $500 million.· Law Enforcement:The bill provides $187 million for COPS hiring grants, $7 million above the 2015 level and $187 million above the House GOP bill, which had eliminated the hiring grants. The bill also provides $80 million for the Community Policing Initiative, including $22.5 million for body-worn cameras and $15 million for Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation grants, an increase over the House bill. -30-
12.01.2015	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, 12.1.15 Clay’s Promise Zone Summit Will Help Coordinate Community’s New Leverage to Win Federal Grant FundingSenior Reps from Federal Agencies to Interact with Local Elected Officials, Nonprofit Leaders ST.LOUIS- The public is invited to join Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri at a special Promise Zone summit that he will be hosting this Friday, December 4th, at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education and Performing Arts Center at 9:00 a.m. CST. Acting on a request from Congressman Clay and the St. Louis Economic Development Partnership, in April, President Obama designated a portion of the 1stcongressional district as one of only six urban Promise Zones that will receive preferential treatment for competitive federal grant applications.“The highly-coveted Promise Zone designation offers a potential windfall for the most economically distressed parts of our region if we take full advantage of it,” said the Congressman. “My summit will help local elected officials and community service providers learn how to leverage this powerful new tool to win maximum federal grant funding. I invite everyone to come by to learn more about this unprecedented opportunity.Local elected officials, leading nonprofit organizations and citizens from both St. Louis City and County will hear first-hand from federal officials about how the St. Louis community can leverage the new Promise Zone designation to win federal funding from 12 different federal departments who offer competitive grants via 35 different programs.The Regional Director of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, (which administers the Promise Zone program), as well as senior executives from the Departments of Justice, Labor, Treasury, HHS, Transportation, Education, Commerce, the SBA, the NEA are expected to attend. For more information, please call Congressman Clay’s office at (314) 669-9393 St. Louis Promise Zone InitiativeA COLLABORATIVE AND INFORMATIONAL EVENT – BETWEEN FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL AGENCIES THAT WILL PROVIDE INSIGHT INTO FEDERAL GRANT PROGRAMS AND CONNECT MUNICIPALITIES, COMMUNITIES, AND ORGANIZATIONS TO AVAILABLE RESOURCES.________________Friday, December 4, 20159:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.Harris Stowe – State UniversityEmerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center3026 Laclede Ave., St. Louis, MO 63103________________ Promise Zones' federal partners include the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Department of Commerce, Corporation for National and Community Service, U.S. Department of Education, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Department of Labor, National Endowment for the Arts, Small Business Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. -30-
11.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 24, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Praises Missouri Supreme Court’s Reversal of Reggie Clemons’ Wrongful Murder ConvictionsSays Ruling is a Victory for Justice, Constitutional Rights WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after the Missouri Supreme Court threw out the first degree murder convictions of Reginald Clemons who had been sentenced to death for two murders on the Chain of Rocks Bridge in 1991.“Today, the Missouri Supreme Court corrected a grave injustice. This is a victory not just for Reggie and his family, but for the constitution and the rights that it guarantees to every American. I have been advocating to save Reggie Clemons’ life for years and to have his convictionsreversed. Today’s ruling powerfully affirms my essential arguments regarding his case…police cannot be allowed to beat a confession out of a suspect, and prosecutors cannot be allowed to suppress evidence.I also want to commend Court Special Master retired Judge Michael Manners for his diligent review of the facts which resulted in today’s remarkable victory for justice. I offer my thanks and appreciation to the Missouri Supreme Court for their continuing efforts to restore trust in our judicial system by honestly addressing the many disparities that still prevent us from achieving equal justice under the law for all.” -30-
11.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 23, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Missouri’s U.S. House Delegation Urges NGA Director to Consider National Security Response Advantage of Proposed Northside Site Clay Says Proximity for Vast Majority of Critical Staffers and Easier Access Gives Northside Site a Significant National Security Advantage WASHINGTON, DC- All eight members of Missouri’s U.S. House delegation have sent an urgent letter to National Geospatial Intelligence Agency Director Robert Cardillo stressing the national security response advantage of locating the new NGA-West Headquarters in North St. Louis. In their bipartisan letter, the Members noted that 70% of current NGA-West employees reside on the Missouri side of the Mississippi River. As was the case after the recent ISIS attacks in Paris, when an act of terrorism or other national security threat occurs, some NGA employees routinely report back to duty immediately, at all hours. Besides the overwhelming economic benefits confirmed by the recent draft Environmental Impact Statement, the easy proximity for the vast majority of critical staffers and much easier access means that the proposed Northside site also offers NGA-West a significant national security response advantage when compared to a potential site in O’Fallon, Illinois.The congressional delegation letter notes:“We are all well aware of the importance of homeland security and the critical role that your agency plays in that process. We also believe that response time is imperative when it comes to thwarting and diffusing actual and/orpotential threats. As nearly 70 percent of NGA's current 3,200employees are based inMissouri, it is a vital security interest to have employees close and available to stand at the ready in the event of terroristic efforts.As the commute to St. Clair County is an average of 31.8miles further ,theagency could lose valuable response time in a crisis.Please see the Executive Summary of the Draft Environmental Impact Study(DEIS) on the final page which finds,"that an average roundtrip commute would increase from 26.4miles to 58.2miles based on current workforce zipcodes." As members of Congress, theanticipated delay for employees is verydisconcerting. Any lost time has the potential to increase lost lives.The North St. Louis City Site has unsurpassed accessibility in close proximity to four interstate highways, I-70, l-55 ,I-64and I-44, as well as many arterial roads in the Cityof St .Louis for employees to access in times of crisis. The St. Clair County Site is only accessible byI-64, with little to no arterial road or alternate access to the site.In a national emergency, if I-64 is blocked or clogged with traffic, NGA employees have absolutely no way to timely reach their offices and perform the essential national security work they do best.”
11.19.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 19, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay, Wagner, Blunt, McCaskill Demand Action on West Lake Landfill For Immediate Release November 19, 2015 WASHINGTON, DC- Today, members of the Missouri congressional delegation, including Senators Roy Blunt and Claire McCaskill, and Representatives Ann Wagner and Wm. Lacy Clay, introduced legislation to transfer remediation authority over the West Lake landfill from the Environmental Protection Agency to the Army Corps of Engineers, putting the site in the Corps’ Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program (FUSRAP). Clay commented, “Over a year ago, I called for the transfer of West Lake to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers FUSRAP program. This new bipartisan legislation will bring us closer to achieving that goal.This is a 70-year old problem and the federal government has a duty to finally do the right thing. I am totally committed to removing all the nuclear waste from West Lake landfill. It just makes no sense to allow radioactive waste to remain buried in an unlined landfill, near residential neighborhoods, schools, a hospital, the airport and the Missouri River. It’s time to clean up West Lake landfill." “The EPA’s unacceptable delay in implementing a solution for the West Lake landfill has destroyed its credibility and it is time to change course,” said Blunt. “The Corps has the knowledge, experience, and confidence of the families living near the site. Transferring clean up efforts to its control will help move the process forward and finally give these families the peace of mind they deserve.No parent should have to raise their child in an environment where they fear for their health and safety.” McCaskill added, “The needs of this community are our top concern. We’ve heard loud and clear that they want the West Lake site transferred to the Army Corps of Engineers’ program that oversees all other sites in St. Louis containing this World War II era nuclear waste. This legislation is not a silver bullet, and will take far longer than we’d like to resolve the many issues surrounding this site, but this is a concrete, positive step forward in a process that’s been stagnant for far too long.” The bill introduced today would not alter the current liability of potentially responsible parties at the site nor its designation as a Superfund site. The measure represents the latest step in the delegation’s effort to utilize the Corps’ expertise to expedite remediation at the West Lake site. In July, Blunt, McCaskill, Wagner, and Clay sent a letterto Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz asking the Department of Energy to re-evaluate whether West Lake qualified for inclusion in the Corps’ FUSRAP in light of new information regarding the source of radioactive waste at the site. “My constituents in the St. Louis region deserve a government where officials work proactively on their behalf, rather than kicking the can down the road with recurring delays and deflections,” said Wagner. “The Formerly Utilized Site Remedial Action Program (FUSRAP) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have an excellent track record, broad support in the community and the expertise to handle a site as complicated as the Westlake Landfill. I believe that this legislation is a crucial step in our efforts to reach a permanent solution‎ for the people of Missouri." On February 28, 2014, the members also sent a letterto the EPA asking the agency to contract directly with the Corps to handle remediation efforts through FUSRAP, citing the Corps’ “expertise in this area, and the local community’s faith in the Corps’ FUSRAP mission.” In March of 2014, the agencies announcedan agreement to work together to build a fire break at the West Lake landfill. -30-
11.09.2015	Clay Condemns Racist Incidents at UM-Columbia Campus, Expresses Solidarity With Concerned Student 1950 ProtestorsPresses University of Missouri System President Wolfe to Transform Atmosphere of Intolerance to Culture of Inclusion FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 9, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement after speaking with Mr. Timothy Wolfe, President of the University of Missouri System and former MU Deputy Chancellor Michael Middleton, regarding the repeated incidents of racial intolerance at Mizzou, the current student protests, and the ongoing hunger strike by Mr. Jonathan Butler, a graduate student at the MU-Columbia campus“Over the last 24-hours, I have had urgent conversations with Mr. Timothy Wolfe, President of the University of Missouri System and former MU Deputy Chancellor Michael Middleton in which I expressed my grave concerns regarding the repeated incidents of racial and religious intolerance at Mizzou. I also expressed my solidarity with the Concerned Student 1950 protestors and my serious concern for the health and well-being of Mr. Jonathan Butler, a graduate student who is engaged in an on-going hunger strike. My senior staff has also reached out to Mr. Butler’s family, and while I stand in solidarity with him and I applaud his personal courage, I implore him to not allow this protest to cause permanent damage to his health. I have been a champion for higher education and the University of Missouri System for more than three decades, first as a state legislator and then as a Member of Congress. I also authored Missouri’s landmark Hate Crimes statute which outlaws the hateful and outrageous acts of bigotry that have brought great pain to the UM-Columbia campus.The fight for racial equality and real inclusion, including at our state’s flagship public university is a long-term struggle that will require the Board of Curators, university leadership, faculty and students to honestly address the painful history of racism at the UM-Columbia campus and take all necessary steps to make every student feel safe, welcome and appreciated. Mizzou belongs to all of us, and we need to work together to transform an atmosphere of intolerance into a culture of inclusion." -30-
10.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 29, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Says North St. Louis Site is Best Choice for National Geospatial Intelligence Agency New West HQSays Northside Will Advance NGA Vital Mission, Leverage Maximum Economic Impact, Provide Taxpayers With Best Return on $1.6 Billion Federal Investment, Transform Distressed Neighborhood With an Unprecedented Opportunity ST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after receiving a briefing on the draft environmental impact statement on the relocation competition for the new western headquarters of the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency. The Congressman has been leading the effort to bring the project to North St. Louis City.“The draft Environmental Impact Statement that was presented today confirms what I have said from the beginning of this competition, the Northside site in the City of St. Louis would advance NGA’s vital mission, deliver maximum economic benefits, provide taxpayers with the greatest return on this $1.6 billion federal investment and support President Obama's stated objective to use federal dollars to transform urban failure into urban success.You know when I was a young man; I used to visit my great-grandmother who lived near the proposed new site for NGA. It was a vibrant neighborhood, every home was full, every corner had a store, and we had a real sense of community.That’s not the way it is today…but if we win this competition, we can return the Northside to a vibrant center of jobs, new housing, new economic development and reconnect it to the larger community as a place of pride and accomplishment.Just across the street from the proposed NGA site is the former footprint of the Pruitt-Igoe Housing complex.In the federal government, we don’t often have an opportunity to replace a great federal failure with an enormous federal victory…one that will transform a distressed and badly disinvested neighborhood…that is the unprecedented opportunity that NGA really represents.75 years ago, the War Department built the world’s largest small arms ammunition plant in North St. Louis. North St. Louis was truly a key hub in what President Roosevelt described as the “arsenal of democracy.”Today, the “ammunition” that defends America is digital information…the very thing that NGA does around the clock, every day, to arm our military and intelligence agencies with the very best chance to succeed in their missions.They say that history repeats itself.Wouldn’t it be wonderful if NGA relocated to Northside…so that once again, North St. Louis could be at the very center of defending freedom?That is my vision for this project, and I also want to commend Paul McKee and Northside Regeneration for their vision and risk-taking which helped assemble this outstanding site. And I want to thank Governor Nixon, Mayor Slay, County Executive Stenger, the Missouri State Legislature, the Board of Aldermen, and the St. Louis Development Corporation for joining me to create unprecedented public-private collaboration at the federal, state and local levels as we strive together to achieve this #1 economic development priority for our community.North St. Louis is ready for NGA….thank you.” -30-
10.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 27, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Praises Bipartisan U.S. House Vote to Reauthorize the Export-Import BankThousands of Missouri Jobs, Billions in Trade at Risk WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after the U.S. House voted to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States, one of his top legislative priorities.“I want to thank my colleagues for today’s strong bipartisan vote to reauthorize the absolutely vital Export-Import Bank of the United States, one of my top legislative priorities. Since Republicans allowed the Export-Import Bank to expire on June 1st, thousands of American businesses have been harmed, many good jobs have been lost, and trade opportunities have been squandered…for no good reason.Today’s vote ensures that American businesses will once again be able to compete on a level playing field with their international competitors. And I have no doubt that when given a fair chance…they will succeed.Across Missouri, the Export-Import Bank is vital to supporting skilled manufacturing, agribusiness, life sciences and our quickly expanding tech/innovation sector. Since 2007 in Missouri, Ex-Im has supported:$1.47 billion in export sales, 125 companies, 9,390 direct jobs and another 10,000 jobs at secondary suppliers.The Bank’s support has been especially important to small and medium-sized businesses which account for nearly 90 percent of the Bank’s transactions. Tens of thousands of smaller companies that supply goods and services to large exporters have also benefitted from Ex-Im’s activities.The Export-Import Bank not only supports American jobs, it operates at no cost to the U.S. taxpayer. Over the past 20 years, Ex-Im has generated $7 billion in revenue above its operating costs and returned these funds to the U.S. Treasury.There are very few issues that unite Democrats and Republicans in the U.S. House, along with the U.S. Chambers of Commerce and the AFL-CIO, but we all on agree on this…Ex-Im is vital to American jobs and our ability to compete in the world.I urge the Senate to follow our lead by acting to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank without delay.” -30-
10.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 9, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING NATIONAL GEOSPATIAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY NEW WEST FACILITIES MODERNIZATION ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after reviewing the just-released U.S. Army Corps of Engineers preliminary Environmental Impact Statement on four potential sites for the new NGA-West Headquarters.“The just-released Environmental Impact Statement confirms what I have said from the beginning of this competition, the Northside site in the City of St. Louis would advance NGA’s vital mission, yield maximum economic benefits for the massive federal dollars invested, and would boost our entire region by transforming a distressed neighborhood near downtown St. Louis.Regarding the proposed $1.6 billion new NGA-West Northside site in the City of St. Louis, the report states:“The area would achieve major benefits from the project.Moving the facility outside of St. Louis would cause the city to lose about $2.19 million in earnings tax.There would be "long-term beneficial effects to individuals who are relocated. In addition, the City of St. Louis is complementing these efforts with other federal redevelopment programs to develop a sustainable community in the broader Northside Redevelopment”I also want to commend Northside Regeneration for their vision and risk-taking which helped assemble this outstanding site. And I want to applaud Mayor Slay and his team at the City of St. Louis and the St. Louis Development Corporation for creating an unprecedented public-private collaboration as we strive together to achieve this #1 economic development priority for our community.” -30-
10.08.2015	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, THURSDAY 10.8.15 Clay Introduces African American Civil Rights Network Act of 2015New Bipartisan Legislation Would Authorize National Park Service to Create Historic Trail Program Preserving and Commemorating the Ongoing Struggle for Full EqualityWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has introduced H.R. 3683, the African American Civil Rights Trails Act of 2015, bipartisan legislation that would authorize the National Park Service to establish a program to preserve and protect the memory of the people and places that were significant in the struggle to secure equal rights for African Americans during the modern civil rights era between 1939-1968. The act, which was coauthored by Congressman Jason Smith (R) Missouri, has already gathered 60 cosponsors.“The purpose of my legislation is to recognize, preserve, protect and share the remarkable American story of the modern struggle for civil rights, a unique national experience that touches every American, regardless of their age or heritage,” said Mr. Clay.“The historic network would create tremendous educational opportunities by recognizing those brave souls from all walks of life who fought to make the promises enshrined in our constitution finally ring true.” The Congressman added, “In many places across this country, precious historic waypoints along the routes of that still largely untold story are at risk of being lost forever. My hope is that the historic civil rights trails and the programs that will grow from this act will honestly tell the full and sometimes painful story of the struggle for civil rights, not just for African Americans, but to foster healing, tolerance and understanding among all Americans. I urge my colleagues to cosponsor this important new legislation.”Stephanie Meeks, President and CEO of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, which strongly supports Congressman Clay’s new legislation added, “We applaud Rep. Clay’s introduction of the African American Civil Rights Network Act.. By linking the historic sites, routes, corridors, and regions that defined the struggle for African-American equality, this bill will deepen our understanding of the relationships between the people and places of the modern Civil Rights movement, and help us to better appreciate its context and complexity. Creating programming that ties together sites, activities, and research on civil rights will produce a richer and more complete picture of a critical time in our nation’s history.”Congressman Clay’s new bill is similar to legislation that created The National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Act of 1998, currently administered by the National Park Service. It directs the Secretary of the Interior to identify and create a national network of historic sites, stories, research facilities and educational programs connected to the modern African American Civil Rights Movement. The bill is also supported by the National Urban League. For more information on this important new legislation, please go to:https://www.congress.gov/search?q=%7B%22congress%22%3A%22114%22%2C%22source%22%3A%22legislation%22%2C%22search%22%3A%22African%20American%20Civil%20Rights%20Trail%20Network%20Act%20of%202015%22%7D
10.07.2015	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, TUESDAY 10.7.15 Clay Swears In 5th Class of Missouri’s 1st District Congressional Youth Cabinet30 of Area’s Best & Brightest High School Students Will Tackle Key National and Local Issues in Unique, Ongoing Civic Engagement. ST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has sworn in the 5th Class of Missouri’s 1st District Congressional Youth Cabinet at Harris-Stowe State University. The Congressman and Harris-Stowe State University President Dr. Dwaun J. Warmack welcomed 30 outstanding high school students from across the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County. The Congressional Youth Cabinet will advise Congressman Clay and his staff on key national and local issues that impact young people. In his remarks to the exceptional group of young people who were all nominated by their high school principals, Congressman Clay said, “This is not just a nice honor or a passive appointment. This is about your personal commitment to real youth civic engagement. The C.Y.C. will give me a direct link to the things that really matter to you and have an impact on your life. I need your voices, your energy, and your fresh ideas to help me do my job better. Together, we are going to discuss the most important issues facing our nation and our community.”Congressman Clay’s Congressional Youth Cabinet has already tackled issues like bullying; race relations; violence directed against women and children; combatting homelessness; and other important community service projects, including a very successful blood drive in cooperation with the American Red Cross Congratulations to the Members of the 2015-2016 Missouri 1st DistrictCongressional Youth Cabinet Shad Alyasiry Hazelwood West H.S.Devin Brooks McKinley Classical Leadership AcademyPfalin Burton McCluer North H.S.Daniel Carroll Ritenour H.S.Jazlen Durgins Soldan International Studies H.S.Dulani Evans Lutheran North H.S.Brendan Farmer North County ChristianMeliza Garcia Gateway STEM H.S.Joey Goldman Parkway North H.S.Alexis Gordon Metro Academic & Classical H.S.Alexa Halliburton Lutheran North H.S.Nicholas Harlan Ritenour H.S.Taylor Harris Lutheran North H.S.Alexus Harris Soldan International Studies H.S.Rachel Hightower Soldan International Studies H.S.Camryn Jones McCluer North H.S.Makayla Jones North County ChristianJalynn Manning Ritenour H.S.Olivia Martin M.I.C.D.S.Charlyn Mwihaki Hazelwood West H.S.Cortise Perry Gateway STEM H.S.Nia Plump M.I.C.D.S.Grecia Ramirez Lutheran North H.S.Sarah Rice Ritenour H.S.Aunya Robertson Soldan International Studies H.S.Naomi See Cor Jesu AcademyQuencee Thompson North County ChristianFurat Wdaa McKinley Classical Leadership AcademyMicah Williams Soldan International Studies H.S.Antonia Zamacona-Calderon Hazelwood West H.S.
10.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 2, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE COLLABORATIVE REVIEW OF THE ST. LOUIS COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT. WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after reviewing the just-released U.S. Department of Justice voluntary review of the St. Louis County Police Department.“I want to commend the Department of Justice and the St. Louis County Police Department for collaborating to produce this wide-ranging, voluntary review which lays out a positive roadmap to make our community safer and to restore trust. I urge Chief Belmar and the department to fully embrace these positive changes to regain and sustain the respect of the entire community that they serve.I strongly agree with the core recommendations which include aggressive recruitment and hiring of more Black and female officers; upgrading training for new and current officers to emphasize diversity, cultural sensitivity, de-escalation and community policing; and reforming the promotion system to reward officers who excel at building partnerships with the community. I also want to commend Chief Jon Belmar for his leadership by requesting this voluntary review. That spirit of transparency and transformation is vital to reforming local law enforcement. Community policing can only succeed by first building a strong foundation of trust and honest communication.” -30-
09.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 24, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING TODAY’S HISTORIC ADDRESS BY HIS HOLINESS, POPE FRANCIS WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after attending the historic address by his holiness, Pope Francis, to a joint session of Congress."The Holy Father Pope Francis' inspiring message challenged us to rise above our petty divisions to protect the planet, restore the dignity of workers, combat poverty and strive for peace and social justice. He reminded us that all of us were once immigrants and he appealed to our great capacity and moral obligation to put our faith into action to advance human dignity and the common good." -30-
09.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 21, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Announces $1.87 Million DOJ Grant to Fund 15 Additional Police Officers in City of St. LouisMore Federal Resources Will Help SLMPD Combat Gun Violence WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded a $1.87 million COPS Hiring Program Grant to the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department. The new federal funding, which Congressman Clay supported, will allow the department to hire (15) additional police officers.“I want to personally thank President Obama and Attorney General Lynch for supporting my efforts to focus federal funding to help the St. Louis Police Department tackle gun violence and a surge in homicides,” said Mr. Clay. “This grant is a good beginning as I continue to pursue additional DOJ funding for more personnel, better training and support. and body cameras for all officers.”The COPS Hiring Program (CHP) is designed to advance public safety through community policing by addressing the full-time sworn officer needs of state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide. CHP provides funds directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new or rehire career law enforcement officers and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. -30-
09.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 15, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING THE FINAL REPORT OF THEFERGUSON COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after reviewing the findings and key recommendations of the Ferguson Commission, which published its final report after almost a year of dedicated effort.“I want to commend Governor Nixon and the members of the Ferguson Commission for their diligent efforts to shine the harsh light of truth on the many disparities and deep divisions in our region that too many people have been willing to ignore for far too long.I am very gratified that a number of their core recommendations mirror key elements of federal legislation that I have already introduced in Congress, including: the appointment of an independent prosecutor in all cases where police use deadly force; transforming how police officers are trained to increase their sensitivity to minorities; limiting the militarization of local law enforcement; and focusing on the economic and educational empowerment of young people as the best way to address the roots of inequality, unrest and violence.The Ferguson Commission has laid out an urgent action agenda that is worthy of our strong support. At the federal level, I have already acted to pursue many of their goals and I encourage state and local officials to join me in making these recommendations a reality.” -30-
09.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 8, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING THE JOINT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF ACTION TO PREVENT IRAN FROM ACQUIRING A NUCLEAR WEAPON NOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "Over the past 51 days, I have engaged in an exhaustive review of the substantial benefits and very real risks associated with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. The lengthy negotiations which produced this agreement were initiated by former President Bush and completed by President Obama.After multiple classified briefings, and after thoughtful consideration of the testimony and public statements of former high-ranking military officers, nuclear weapons experts and the robust debate among my constituents, I have concluded that this arms control agreement, while not perfect, clearly advances the national security interests of the United States and our closest allies, including the State of Israel. It has earned my support.This agreement requires Iran to destroy 98 percent of its enriched uranium stockpile; mothball two-thirds of its centrifuges (including the most advanced centrifuges); end all uranium enrichment at the formerly secret Fordow nuclear facility; and pour cement into the core of the Arak (plutonium) heavy water reactor, making it permanently inoperable. The agreement also establishes unprecedented 24-hour monitoring and snap inspections at all known Iranian nuclear facilities. Simply put, over the next 15-years, this diplomatic solution will push Iran further away from acquiring a nuclear weapon than any conceivable military option, short of an all-out invasion, which the American people do not support.Having reached this decision, I have no illusions about the brutal regime in Tehran which oppresses its own people, supports terrorism, denies the Holocaust, and spews anti-American and anti-Semitic rhetoric on a daily basis. The United States must remain vigilant and be willing, by all means necessary, to oppose Iran and its proxy clients, Hezbollah and Hamas, and to interdict the flow of weapons to these terrorist organizations if necessary.This is not a peace treaty; rather, it is an arms control agreement with a dangerous adversary. That is not without precedent in American foreign policy. During the Cold War, while thousands of Soviet nuclear missiles were pointed at the United States, and with the Kremlin arming and training North Vietnamese and Viet Cong forces who killed more than 58,000 brave American soldiers, both Republican and Democratic administrations understood the strategic necessity to negotiate several arms control agreements with the Soviets to control and then reduce the stockpiles of nuclear weapons. As is the case with Iran today, those agreements were not based on trust or friendship, but on our means to verify compliance. History shows that those agreements were adhered to by both sides.While we closely monitor Iranian compliance with this new agreement, the United States must strengthen and enhance our security cooperation and support for the State of Israel, our indispensable friend and trusted ally. And we must also continue to safeguard our vital regional partners including Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Egypt and our Gulf Allies. Their security is inexorably linked to ours.” -30
08.19.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 19, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING THE DEATH OF FORMER CONGRESSMAN LOUIS STOKES (D) OHIO NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I am deeply saddened by the passing of a true giant in public service, former Congressman Louis Stokes of Ohio. As the first African American elected to Congress from Ohio and the first Black member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, former Congressman Stokes was a fearless advocate for his constituents for three decades.I first met former Congressman Stokes at the age of 12 when my father, former Congressman Bill Clay, joined him in Congress. Together, they helped found the Congressional Black Caucus in 1971. Louis Stokes was a powerful and principled voice for African Americans and the working poor. He demanded the nation’s attention to address the serious disparities in healthcare, jobs and education that still persist today. He devoted his life to serving the citizens of Cleveland, Ohio at the local, state and federal levels and his legacy will endure for generations to come.My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Jay, and his wonderful children Shelly, Angela, Louis and Lori.May God bless Louis Stokes with perfect peace and rest, and may he strengthen and comfort all who mourn this remarkable man." -30
07.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 30, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Joins House Natural Resources CommitteeNew Opportunity to Fight for Environmental Justice Will Focus on Higher Standards for Clean Air & Water, Preserving Wilderness Areas, Cleaning Up Contaminated Sites-Washington, DC – In a move that will cheer environmentalists in Missouri and across the nation, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has been appointed to the U.S. House Committee on Natural Resources. Mr. Clay, the Dean of Missouri’s U.S. House delegation and the senior Member of Congress for the St. Louis region, is a life-long advocate for environmental justice, higher standards for clean air and water, protecting wilderness areas and cleaning up contaminated sites, particularly in the St. Louis region.“I am very honored to add the Natural Resources Committee to my congressional portfolio,”said Mr. Clay. “Since my earliest days in the U.S. House, I’ve been a dedicated advocate for cleaning up contaminated sites, stronger clean air and water standards, and protecting our precious forests, coastlines and wilderness refuges. This new assignment will also provide me with a stronger platform to combat climate change, protect Missouri’s magnificent natural wonders, and advance the cause of environmental justice, especially in urban areas.”In addition to his new duties on the Natural Resources Committee, Congressman Clay will continue serving as the Ranking Member on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions & Consumer Credit, and as a senior member of the Oversight & Government Reform Committee. -30-
07.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 9, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri & Congressman Ruben Gallego (D) Arizona Introduce Bill to Prohibit Confederate Flags at VA CemeteriesWashington, DC – Today, Congressman Lacy Clay (D) Missouri and Congressman Ruben Gallego (D) Arizona introduced a bill to prohibit the Confederate Battle Flag at cemeteries operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), including Jefferson Barracks National Cemetery in St. Louis County. The VA currently permits the display of the Confederate flag on Memorial Day as well as on Confederate Memorial Day. Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri said, “The Confederate battle flag is a treasonous symbol of a war of insurrection instigated by white supremacists who made war on the United States to preserve the horrors of slavery and the cursed economic system that it fueled by subjugating and humiliating millions of African Americans for almost 300 years.” Mr. Clay added, “This bloody relic of racial terrorism, which was embraced last month by Dylann Roof as he gunned down nine innocent souls in prayer at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, SC, is the very same banner of hatred that has been proudly displayed by the Ku Klux Klan for 150 years. It has no place in any national cemetery administered by the Veterans Administration. Our bill would finally prohibit this highly offensive practice.”Congressman Ruben Gallego (D) Arizona said, “The confederate flag is a symbol of hate and intolerance, and it will forever be associated with the injustices of slavery and Jim Crow. It’s time for the Department of Veteran Affairs to change their policy allowing the Confederate Flag at cemeteries honoring American war heroes.” He added, “The Confederate flag does not represent the values our veterans fought to defend. It is a painful reminder of a terrible time in our history when we treated human beings as less than. Our country needs to heal, and VA cemeteries should be a place of reflection, remembrance and tribute to those that embody the very best in our country.” -30-
07.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 9, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Congressman Clay Shares His Latest White House NGA Update with St. Louis Board of Aldermen Clay Tells White House That New NGA West HQ Would Be “Once in a lifetime opportunity for the federal government to reverse urban blight and finally harness the economic might of the entire St. Louis metropolitan region”. WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Clay Lacy (D) Missouri reached out to the entire St. Louis Board of Aldermen today by sharing his latest communication to the White House in support of his efforts to help the City of St. Louis win the relocation competition for the new National Geospatial Intelligence Agency West Headquarters facility.Mr. Clay, who has been leading St. Louis’ pursuit of the $1.6 billion federal investment in Congress, and the 3100 jobs it includes, sent a letter to theBoard this afternoon outlining his latest update to the Obama administration. The Congressman’s White House update, entitled “From Urban Blight to Regeneration Might, Why the New NGA West Campus Must Be in North St. Louis City,” includes fresh economic impact data for the relocation, as reported by the respected public policy research analysis firm, Missouri Wonk. It says in-part:“By building the new NGA West facility in the middle of North St. Louis City, the federal government will see the highest economic return for every dollar invested. NGA West currently houses 3,100 jobs in St. Louis City, with a median salary of $75,000. The new NGA West facility will take $1.2 billion dollars to construct, with a projected $1.6 billion in total development cost. With this initial federal investment, 15,000 construction jobs and 11,500 permanent jobs will be created throughout Missouri. The estimated economic impact of putting the NGA West facility in North St. Louis City is an additional $1.4 billion dollars annually to the Missouri economy. 11,200 of those jobs and $1.2 billion of those dollars are expected to benefit the St. Louis City metropolitan region alone. Lastly, $8.1 billion dollars of public and private investment is expected to be generated from 2016 to 2023 by selecting North St. Louis City as the new NGA West site. The North St. Louis City site is the only of the four sites that is simultaneously a part of the Administration’s Stronger Cities and Strong Communities Initiative, and the Promise Zone Program. This site would also fulfill the 1978 Executive Order 12072 which gives first priority to distressed urban areas in locating new Federal facilities or consolidating or relocating existing facilities. The North St. Louis City site is unmatched in its potential for economic urban regeneration, uplift of economic and housing opportunities for low-income minority residents, and fulfilling the mission of the NGA to protect the security of our nation.Conclusion: The Obama Administration’s legacy of poverty reversal and rebuilding the middle class would be cemented by choosing North St. Louis City as the selected site for the new NGA West Headquarters. This is a once in a lifetime opportunity for the federal government to reverse urban blight and finally harness the economic might of the entire St. Louis metropolitan region.” -30-
06.29.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 29, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Congressman Lacy Clay Urges St. Louis Mayor Francis G. Slay to Remove Confederate Memorial from City’s Historic Forest Park Says “Symbols Associated with This Country’s Racist, Oppressive Past Should Not be Elevated or Displayed in Public Places” -ST. LOUIS, MO – In a letter delivered today to St. Louis Mayor Francis G. Slay, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri called for the removal of the Confederate Memorial in Forest Park, which was originally dedicated on December 4, 1914 by the Ladies Confederate Monument Association. The 32-foot high granite edifice with bronze relief is located near one of the entrances of the magnificent 1371-acre historic green space in the heart of the City of St. Louis.In his letter to Mayor Slay, Congressman Clay noted, “Some may disagree and reflect on this memorial as a symbol of southern culture and Civil War reverence. But symbols matter and should reflect who we are as a people today.” Clay added, “Let us lead and influence how we are perceived by the world…as a force for good, and in solidarity with those advocating racial healing. It is not only time for a reappraisal of all public symbols that reflect upon the “peculiar institution” of slavery, but also time for removal. Symbols associated with this country’s racist, oppressive past should not be elevated or displayed in public places.”Congressman Clay is also teaming up with Congressman Ruben Gallego (D) Arizona to introduce legislation that would prohibit the Department of Veterans Affairs from allowing the display of the Confederate flag at national cemeteries which it manages across the nation, including Jefferson Barracks National Cemetery in south St. Louis County.The full text of Congressman Clay’s letter to Mayor Slay urging the removal of the Confederate Memorial in Forest Park is attached. -30-
06.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 26, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING. U.S. SUPREME COURT RULING IN Obergefell v’ Hodges, ESTABLISHING MARRIAGE EQUALITY NOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after the U.S. Supreme Court issued its ruling in Obergefell v’ Hodges regarding the issue of marriage equality.“This landmark ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges affirms the fundamental constitutional guarantee of equal protection under the law for every American, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.No one has the right to tell someone else who they can love. And no one has the right to define someone else’s family.This decision is a major advance for civil rights and a victory for millions of LGBT Americans who deserve the freedom to marry and to have that life commitment legally recognized in every state.” -30-
06.25.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 25, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING. U.S. SUPREME COURT RULING IN King v. Burwell, UPHOLDING FEDERAL SUBSIDIES FOR PREMIUMS IN STATES THAT DO NOT OPERATE THEIR OWN HEALTHCARE EXCHANGES UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after the U.S. Supreme Court issued its ruling in King v. Burwell upholding a key funding mechanism for the Affordable Care Act.“I am very gratified that the high court has upheld this essential funding mechanism for the Affordable Care Act, landmark legislation which I helped shape, that is now working well for over 16 million Americans.The ACA is now the settled law of the land. And the endless, politically motivated attempts to weaken or overturn it must end.Now is the time to fully implement the law, especially in states like Missouri where the state legislature continues to throw away $5.4 million a day in federal funds that taxpayers have already sent to Washington by refusing to expand Medicaid under the ACA. The time for political posturing and empty excuses is over. They must act without delay to allow their most vulnerable constituents to receive affordable healthcare coverage, just like they do. -30-
06.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 22, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING GOVERNOR NIXON’S SIGNING OF MISSOURI HOUSE BILL 514 TO HELP KEEP THE NATIONAL GEOSPATIAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY IN ST. LOUIS NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriWASHINGTON, DC– Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after Missouri Governor Jay Nixon signed House bill 514, which increases the State of Missouri’s Supplemental Tax Increment Financing program capacity.“I want to thank Governor Nixon and the Missouri State legislature for this strong action to advance my top economic development priority, keeping the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency in the City of St. Louis. This increased State Supplemental Tax Increment Financing capacity will help us transform a distressed neighborhood with a $1.6 billion federal investment and 3000 excellent jobs, with more to follow. Our bipartisan leadership team is united as we pursue this vital objective.” -30-
06.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 15, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Treasury Dept. and Congressman Clay Announce $300 Million in New Market Tax Credits to Create Jobs, Support Small Business Development and Strengthen Neighborhoods St. Louis Development Corporation, US Bank, Enterprise Financial, Heartland Regional Investment Fund, MBS Urban Initiatives, Midwest Industrial Redevelopment Fund Are Winners in National Competition -Washington, DC – As part of a $3.5 billion national investment to grow jobs and revive struggling neighborhoods, U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, announced today that six St. Louis-based community development entities are among the 76 winners nation-wide who have been selected to receive New Market Tax Credit funding. “This is tremendous news for the entire St. Louis region, said theCongressman. “The New Market Tax credits are a powerful tool to help cities and development entities renew older urban communities by encouraging private sector investment that creates jobs. New Market Tax Credits make gap funding available to finance difficult projects in under-invested and underserved neighborhoods.”“I want to thank President Obama and Secretary Lew for being so responsive to my efforts to win this new federal investment for the St. Louis region,” said Mr. Clay. “And I want to congratulate all the awardees for their commitment to becoming stakeholders in urban neighborhoods.” Nation-wide, all 76 winners have committed to providing at least 75 percent of their investments in areas characterized by high levels of economic distress and unemployment. Congressman Clay is proud to announce these 2015 awardees for the New Market Tax Credit program in the St. Louis region: Enterprise Financial CDE, LLC $65 million MBS Urban Initiatives CDE, LLC $55 million Midwest Industrial Redevelopment Fund, LLC $50 million Heartland Regional Investment Fund, L.L.C. $30 million St. Louis Development Corporation $45 million US Bank CDE, LLC $55 million
06.11.2015	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY, 6.11.15 Thousands of Eager Job Seekers Pack Clay’s 10th Annual Career FairOver 100 Top Companies Seeking to Fill More than 1000 Jobs Greet Huge, Hopeful CrowdsEven before he joined new Harris-Stowe State University President Dr. Dwaun Warmack outside of the Emerson Performance Center, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri beamed at the huge line of eager job seekers stretching outside for almost a block, ready to take full advantage of his 10th Annual Career Fair. By the end of the energetic day, a diverse crowd of thousands of guests had come through the doors.“The year’s Career Fair was truly exceptional because our mix of top employers offering great job opportunities at all skill levels was unprecedented,” said the Congressman. “I especially want to thank CBS Radio; Charter Communications; Emmis Communications; iHeart Radio and Radio One for helping me get the word out to the community. As the economy continues to recover, unemployment and underemployment remain huge issues in the 1st Congressional District, and my Career Fair directly addresses that.”Job seekers were able to meet with over 100 top St. Louis employers, including: the Boeing Company; Ameren; BJC Healthcare Systems; Citigroup; World Wide Technology; Express Scripts; Enterprise; UPS; Schnucks; LaunchCode; the Missouri Botanical Garden; multiple local law enforcement agencies; the Missouri Highway Patrol; the U.S. Postal Service; the TSA; St. Louis Community Credit Union, and many other fine firms.For the eighth consecutive year, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management joined the Career Fair lineup by providing a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for, thousands of federal jobs, worldwide. They also offered special help for returning veterans who are transitioning back to civilian life.Congressman Clay’s annual Career Fair was presented with the invaluable help and support of Harris-Stowe State University, and all of our outstanding vendor partners. We thank them for their participation and we look forward to Career Fair ‘2016. -30-
06.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 10, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIPRAISING U.S. HOUSE PASSAGE OF RESOLUTION ENCOURAGING BODY-WORN CAMERAS FOR POLICE OFFICERS NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this first-person statement today after the U.S. House passed H. Res. 295, a measure cosponsored by Mr. Clay, encouraging the use of body-worn cameras by local police officers:“I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their strong support of this resolution encouraging the use of body-worn cameras by local police officers which I was proud to cosponsor.This measure aims to protect both citizens and police officers by increasing transparency, accountability and community legitimacy. It was driven by research from the University of Cambridge which reported that after a year-long study in the United Kingdom, the use of body-worn cameras reduced the use of force by police by 50% and reduced complaints against police by 90%.Our resolution recognizes the potential for the use of body-worn cameras by on-duty law enforcement officers to improve community relations and encourages State and local law enforcement agencies to consider the use of body-worn cameras, including policies and protocols to handle privacy, storage, and other relevant concerns.” -30-
06.01.2015	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, 6.1.15 Clay’s 10th Annual Career Fair Will Feature Over 100 Top Employers Seeking to Fill More Than 1000 Job OpeningsLaunchCode Joins Stellar Lineup of Top Companies,Thousands of Eager Job Seekers Expected to Attend St. Louis’ Biggest & Best Free Jobs Event Monday, June 8that Harris-Stowe State UniversityST. LOUIS- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will present his 10th Annual Career Fair on Monday, June 8nd from 9:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m. at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center located at 3026 Laclede Avenue. This unique jobs event will feature over 100 of the St. Louis area’s top employers who are seeking to fill more than 1,000 job openings, and it’s absolutely free.“My top priority is connecting my constituents with quality job opportunities that they would not have access to on their own.” said the Congressman.” Our Career Fair is St. Louis’ biggest and best jobs event. We will once again feature over 100 companies from all sectors of the local economy who are currently hiring,” said Mr. Clay. “They are trying to fill more than 1000 job openings at all skill levels. And I’m especially excited to welcome LaunchCode to our exceptional lineup of top employers. We’re also offering great job opportunities with federal, state and local government agencies. Last year, over 5,000 job seekers attended. I would advise guests to arrive early, dress for success, and have your resumes ready.”New to the employer lineup for 2015 is the nationally-acclaimed LaunchCode, one of St. Louis’ most exciting and innovative companies that was recently honored by President Obama for their groundbreaking work to connect nontraditional employees with jobs in the high-demand world of coding and information technology. LaunchCode will present two special work sessions to introduce guests to their wide variety of free training and job placement opportunities.For those interested in public service, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for thousands of federal jobs, worldwide. OPM and the Veterans Administration will also offer special assistance to veterans who are transitioning back to civilian life.Other top St. Louis employers who will also be on hand are: the Boeing Company; Express Scripts; BJC Healthcare Systems; World Wide Technology; iHeartRadio; CBS Radio; Charter Communications; Emmis Communications; Centene Corporation; Wells Fargo Advisors; Lodging Hospitality Management; CVS Pharmacy; Best Buy; Office Depot; Lumiere Place; Harrah’s; Ameristar; the U.S. Postal Service and many others.For more information, please call (314) 367-1970. -30-
05.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 5.18.15MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (CLAY)(314) 504-4029JOHN JONES (CLEAVER)(202) 225-4535 Clay and Cleaver Applaud President Obama’s Decision toLimit Military Hardware Distributed to PoliceToday, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay applauded President Obama’s decision to curtail the distribution of some forms of military-style equipment and to add stricter controls on other transfers. After months of study, the White House Law Enforcement Equipment Working Group Report released a list of military hardware that local law enforcement will be prohibited from securing with federal funds or from federal agencies.“Our local police officers and law enforcement deserve respect, and our first responders deserve the best tools and training available to protect and serve our communities,” said Congressman Cleaver. “That doesn’t mean Main Street should be filled with tear gas, sound cannons, MRAPs, or other weapons of war. My colleagues and I have worked for almost a year now to spur a fundamental shift in local law enforcement, away from military-style response and toward a community-based, proportionate-response style of policing. Today’s announcement is progress for this effort, and for our communities. We must do all we can to give local law enforcement the right tools, proper training, and appropriate techniques they need to do keep our streets safe and secure.”“I want to thank President Obama for acting on several of the key issues that Congressman Cleaver and I raised with former Secretary of Defense Hagel when we met with him at the Pentagon just days after the unrest began last summer in Ferguson,” said Congressman Clay. “I witnessed first-hand, high-powered sniper rifles with night scopes being pointed at my constituents who were peacefully exercising their constitutional rights. That kind of police militarization is harmful and it deepens the already wide gulf of mistrust that exists between communities of color and some local law enforcement agencies. I am proud to cosponsor new legislation with Mr. Cleaver and others to codify these changes made by executive order into federal law.”In August of 2014, Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Clay authored a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel calling for a review of the 1033 program. Additionally, both Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Clay met with Secretary Hagel to discuss in depth the militarization of local law enforcement. The conversation, which was productive and positive, addressed urgent concerns about the militarization of local law enforcement agencies through the distribution of surplus Department of Defense equipment via the 1033 Program. In December of 2014, President Obama included, as examples, many of the recommendations and strategies the Members put forth last August: ensuring that all equipment available for acquisition by law enforcement agencies has a legitimate civilian law enforcement purpose; including training requirements that address appropriate use and deployment of equipment; broadening transparency of the 1033 and other agency equipment repurpose programs; and requiring police officers to wear body cameras. -30-
05.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 5.14.15MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT(314) 504-4029 Clay-Cohen Police Training and Independent Review Act Would Require All Officers to Receive Specialized Sensitivity Training, Bill Also Encourages Independent Investigations in All Cases Where Police Use Deadly ForceNew Legislation Incorporates Key Recommendations from President Obama’s Taskforce on 21stCentury Policing and the Ferguson CommissionWASHINGTON, DC – As the nation struggles to address the pervasive and dangerous gulf of mistrust between local law enforcement agencies and minority citizens, the mentally ill, disabled Americans and new immigrants, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouriand Congressman Steve Cohen (D) Tennessee, are teaming up to introduce the Clay-Cohen Police Training and Independent Review Act of 2015. “In the wake of Ferguson; Staten Island; Cleveland; North Charleston; and Baltimore, the urgent need to require all police officers to receive specialized sensitivity training in order to help them deescalate volatile situations is clearly a national public safety priority,” said Mr. Clay. “This bill, which I am proud to coauthor with my good friend and colleague, Congressman Steve Cohen, would require sensitivity training for all police officers in the areas of race, ethnic bias, and interactions with disabled persons and new immigrants. It would also establish incentives to encourage states to adopt new laws that would require an independent prosecutor in all cases where police use deadly force. Both core ideas in Clay-Cohen address key recommendations from the Ferguson Commission and the President’s Task Force on 21stCentury Policing.”“America received a sobering wakeup call last year in Ferguson, followed by others in Staten Island, Cleveland, North Charleston, and more recently in Baltimore,” said Congressman Cohen. “The need for reform is as clear as it is urgent. Officers need better training. Excessive force must end. Justice shouldn’t just depend on whether a bystander catches bad acts on video. Expecting local prosecutors to prosecute the same officers upon whom they rely to do their job presents a clear conflict of interest, and it is unnecessary. Congress must act, and I am proud to join with my friend, Congressman Lacy Clay, to bring fairness to our criminal justice system.”The new legislation would require all local law enforcement agencies who receive full federal Byrne-JAG funding to ensure that enrollees at law enforcement academies receive sensitivity training on ethnic and racial bias, cultural diversity, and police interaction with the disabled, mentally ill, and new immigrants…which mirrors a key recommendation from the Ferguson Commission. New police academy candidates would be required to complete a minimum of 8 hours of training while active duty police officers would be required to complete 4 hours of training on an annual basis.The act would also incentivize states to adopt laws requiring independent investigations and prosecutions of law enforcement officers in cases where one or more of the alleged offenses involves an officer’s use of deadly force in the course of carrying out his or her official duties. That concept, which Congressman Clay first called for in the aftermath of the tragic police killing of Mike Brown in Ferguson, MO.; directly addresses a key recommendation included in the final report from President Obama’s Taskforce on 21stCentury Policing. -30-
05.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 5.7.15MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT(314) 504-4029 Clay, McCaskill Author Protecting Communities and Police Act of 2015 Bill Addresses Excessive Militarization of Police, Would Provide Enhanced Training to Deescalate Confrontations, Reduce Use of Force WASHINGTON – In the aftermath of the tragic death of Michael Brown and the violence that followed in Ferguson, Missouri and other disturbing police/community confrontations across the nation, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri and Senator Claire McCaskill (D) Missouri have teamed up to author “The Protecting Communities and Police Act of 2015.”The sweeping law enforcement reform bill was introduced today in the U.S. Senate by Senator McCaskill. Congressman Clay will introduce the companion bill when the U.S. House reconvenes next week. The bill would protect both communities and the police officers who are sworn to serve them by reforming and tracking how local law enforcement agencies acquire surplus military equipment and by enhancing officer training and sensitivity to reduce the use of excessive force.“I’m very pleased to join with my great friend and colleague Senator McCaskill to coauthor this strong legislation,” Clay said. “Our bill directly addresses the excessive militarization of local police, which I witnessed first-hand in Ferguson. It will also mandate new standards for sensitivity training to help officers interact more effectively with racially & ethnically diverse communities, new immigrants, the mentally ill and disabled Americans. This enhanced training will protect both the public and police officers by helping to deescalate volatile situations before they lead to the use of force.” “The bottom line is, this equipment saves lives, but these programs need reform,” said McCaskill, a senior member of the Senate ArmedServices and Homeland Security Committees. “And that’s exactly what this bill would do.”Highlights of the joint legislation include:· Task Force to Determine Law Enforcement Equipment. Creates a task force to work with Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, and Justice (DOJ)—to determine what equipment is suitable for law enforcement, what should be prohibited, and what should require higher-level approval/local input—composed of agency representatives, law enforcement associations, state/local elected officials, an expert in criminology/criminal justice, and representatives from a civil rights organizations.· Body Cameras, Dashboard Cameras, and Gun Cameras. Sets aside 5% of grant funding from the DOJ Byrne-JAG grant program for the purchase and maintenance of body cameras, dashboard cameras, gun cameras, and related costs, including maintenance and storage of footage.· Data Collection. Sets up DOJ to collect and analyze data on the use and deployment of SWAT teams.· Publication and Local Approval. Requires a law enforcement agency to publish its request and obtain approval from the law enforcement agency’s state or local executive prior to submitting a request for grant funding for certain purposes and requests (e.g., tactical vehicles, camouflage, weapons over a certain caliber, grenades and flash bang grenades). · Whistleblowers/Public Hotlines. Establishes whistleblower protections, public hotlines for misuse of grant funding/equipment.· Small Agencies. Restricts law enforcement agencies with fewer than 10 sworn full-time law enforcement officers from purchasing or obtaining a tactical military vehicle if the law enforcement agency already has 1 or more.· Small SWAT Teams. Requires SWAT teams to be composed of at least 17 officers and chosen from law enforcement agencies with more than 35 full time sworn officers in order to be eligible for funding and equipment. Law enforcement agencies with fewer than 35 officers may form regionalized SWAT teams to meet this requirement.· Video Recording. Requires law enforcement that receives cameras to establish policies for use, retention, and chain of custody.· Consent Decrees. Prevents law enforcement agencies that are under consent decrees by the DOJ for civil rights abuses or excessive use of force from receiving most weapons or funding to procure weapons without the approval of DOJ.· Trainer Certification and Training Requirements. Requires states to establish programs to certify law enforcement trainers. Establishes annual training requirements for law enforcement officers, including training for deployment of SWAT teams.· Reporting Requirements. Requires requests for grants/equipment to provide additional details on need.The bill is also supported by a wide variety of stakeholders, including: · The National Tactical Officers Association—representing law enforcement in all 50 states· The NAACP· St. Louis County Chief of Police Chief Jon Belmar· St. Louis Chief of Police Sam Dotson· The Urban League of Metropolitan St. Louis -30-
04.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 4.28.15MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 St. Louis Awarded White House Promise Zone DesignationClay Says 12 Federal Agencies, 35 Programs Will Now Provide City & County with Preferred Access, Expertise…Combined Economic Development Efforts Score 1st Big Federal Win Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri welcomed U.S. Secretary of Housing & Urban Development Julian Castro to St. Louis today as the Secretary announced that the St. Louis region has won a coveted White House Promise Zone designation, a goal which the Congressman has pursued for more than a year.“I want to express my personal thanks to President Obama and Secretary Castro for responding to my efforts to help the St. Louis region win this coveted designation,” said the Congressman.“This is a significant advance for our region,” Mr. Clay added. “The combined St. Louis Promise Zone application prevailed as one of only six urban winners among 123 competitors nationwide. This victory means that our region will receive preferential access for grant applications, technical assistance and other help from 12 different federal agencies who administer 35 different programs. That includes potential help with job training; education; healthcare; law enforcement; urban agriculture and community-based efforts to reduce violence.”Mr. Clay continued, “This is also the first big win at the federal level for the St. Louis Economic Development Partnership…and I’m proud of them. It proves that when we strive together as a region, instead of fighting amongst ourselves, great things are possible.” -30-
04.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 4.23.13MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT(314) 504-4029 Clay Salutes 2015 Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition Winners36 Young Artists Competed to Have Work Displayed at U.S. Capitol ComplexCongressman Clay congratulated 36 talented high school artists from across Missouri’s 1st congressional district who competed in the 15th Annual Congressional Art Competition. This year’s winning entry is a mixed media piece entitled “Mrs. Tidball,” created by Joyce Hau, a senior at McCluer High School. Ms. Hau’s colorful work will be on display at the U.S. Capitol Complex. She will travel to Washington, DC, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to unveil her winning entry.In his remarks to the overflow crowd of young artists, parents and teachers who gathered at Portfolio Gallery in historic Grand Center, Congressman Clay said,“Tonight, we are celebrating our fifteenth year of recognizing outstanding young artistic talent. As you can see from the artwork on display here, the level of talent is truly impressive. Your work is inspiring, and I encourage all of you to continue to develop your creative talents.”The Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition is in its 31st year nationally. This is the 15th year that Congressman Clay has conducted the competition in Missouri’s First Congressional District.Congratulations to all the young artists. Here are the results:1st place - “Mrs. Tidball” (A mixed media work by Joyce Hau , McClure H.S.) 2nd place - “Essence of Self” (A mixed media work by Stefany Galvez, Cleveland Naval ROTC.) 3rd place - “Perception of Fortune” (A work in cray-pan by Taylor Donato, McCluer H.S.)
04.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 7, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING THE DEATH OF LONG-TIME CLAY STAFFERALYSON SINGFIELD NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "It is with great sadness that I announce the death of my dedicated staffer and longtime friend, Alyson Singfield, who passed away today after a courageous battle with breast cancer. This is a huge loss for me, my staff, and for the community that Alyson loved and served so well for many years.As my Community Outreach Coordinator, Alyson brought her immense talent, creativity and dedication to work every day. She helped create and coordinate outstanding programs like my Congressional Youth Cabinet, the Congressional Art Competition, my Congressional Internship Program and many others. She was also my personal representative on the Regional Health Commission.My thoughts and prayers are with Alyson’s wonderful family and her many friends at this painful hour. I share your grief and I can assure you that Alyson’s legacy of love, service, and her courageous spirit will always remain in our hearts. She will never be forgotten.May God bless her with perfect peace and eternal rest, and may he bless all who mourn her with strength, faith and healing. -30
03.12.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 12, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 (CLAY)JOHN JONES 202-225-4535 (CLEAVER) Clay, Cleaver Offer Reward for Information Leading to Arrest of Suspected Shooter of Police Officers in Ferguson, Mo ST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D) Missouri are offering a $3,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the person or persons responsible for the ambush shooting of two police officers outside of the Ferguson Police Department last night.“I completely condemn the cowardly ambush of the brave officers who were wounded last night in Ferguson.” said Congressman Clay. “I ask everyone to join me in prayers for their swift recovery and for healing in our community. The path of violence does not lead to justice.”“What happened in Ferguson last night was a terrible tragedy, and we cannot stand idly by as others transgress,” stated CongressmanCleaver.“We encourage anyone who has information to come forward.” -30-
03.04.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 4, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE REPORT ON POLICE PATTERNS AND PRACTICES INFERGUSON, MISSOURI NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "Today's far-reaching report announced by Attorney General Holder represents an important path forward towards achieving equal justice under the law in Ferguson, Missouri and repairing some of the deep divisions and very real disparities in local law enforcement which that good community has endured for far too long.The disturbing findings in this report demand urgent remedies which must be swiftly implemented without obstruction or delay, and without further denials of the painful and undeniable facts. It should serve as a template for transformational change, not just in Ferguson, but across this country.The tragedy of Mike Brown's unnecessary death, along with the police killings of Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and many others…have illuminated, with the harsh light of truth, a system of local law enforcement and criminal justice that in too many cases, does not provide equal justice under the law to persons of color in this country.While I am extremely disappointed that Mike Brown's killer will not face criminal charges, his death has forced our nation to begin a long overdue conversation on race and the disparities it continues to perpetuate for too many Americans.I am extremely grateful that the Attorney General personally responded to my urgent request for help after the tragic police killing of Mike Brown with great strength and real concern. His staff at the Justice Department has conducted both federal investigations with integrity, energy and determination. I continue to stand with Mike Brown’s family and with the peaceful protestors who are demanding better from their community, and from this country.This is not the end of the struggle; it is just the end of the beginning along the long road to finally achieving equal justice under the law for all...instead of just for some.” -30
01.23.2015	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Friday, January 23, 2015 Clay Named Ranking Member on New House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer CreditKey Post Will Provide Oversight over Banks, Credit Unions, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Credit Rating AgenciesWASHINGTON, DC – As the 114thCongress begins its new term, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has been named Ranking Member on the newly formed House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Services and Consumer Credit. The key subcommittee will have major oversight responsibilities over banking, community lending, credit rating agencies and the vital Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Mr. Clay, who was recently sworn in for his 8thterm in the U.S. House said, “I’m honored that my colleagues have entrusted me with this key leadership post as the ranking member on a new subcommittee that will greatly impact the economic security of working families. Our focus will be growing jobs, encouraging investment in distressed communities, expanding access to credit for disadvantaged small businesses and protecting consumers from abuses by credit rating agencies and bad actors in our financial system who still seek to break the rules.The Congressman added, “I will also stand firm against the relentless and irresponsible attempts by the Republican majority to weaken, shackle and undermine the vital Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which I helped create under Dodd-Frank, and which has already provided more than 15 million American consumers with over $4.8 billion in refunds resulting from its enforcement actions.”Congressman Clay will also serve on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, as well as continuing in his senior position on the House Oversight & Government Reform Committee. -30-
01.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 20, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "Tonight, President Obama laid out a smart, energetic agenda that will restore more working families to economic security. The President’s proposals will lift up the many, instead of just preserving economic privilege for the very few. I support his efforts to reform the tax code and open the doors of higher education to all, while continuing to protect our historic progress in access to affordable healthcare and a cleaner environment.The President’s proposals provide a real opportunity to move our country forward with common sense ideas that deserve bipartisan support. I’m hopeful that the Republican majority will seize this opportunity to work with us for the common good.” -30
01.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 18, 2015 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Welcomes Congressional Black Caucus to Ferguson as Leaders Reclaim Dr. King’s Legacy, Demand Transformational ChangeCBC Members Pledge to Pursue Change via the Ballot Box, Federal Legislation, the Justice System and Local Law EnforcementFERGUSON, MISSOURI – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri welcomed new Congressional Black Caucus Chairman, Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D) North Carolina, and nine of his CBC colleagues to a joyous tribute honoring the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and the ongoing pursuit of justice at the historic Wellspring United Methodist Church in the heart of Ferguson, Missouri.Pastor F. Willis Johnson, Jr. greeted the overflow crowd of regular congregants, media, civic activists, and elected officials who received stirring messages from Congressman Clay; Chairman Butterfield; and Congressman Andre Carson (D) Indiana.In his remarks, Congressman Clay said in part:“Our community and our country have been forever changed by the tragic police killing of Michael Brown…and similar deaths of young, unarmed black men across this country.These tragedies have illuminated, with the harsh light of truth…the deep divisions and very real disparities that we have yet to overcome as a nation, and in this community as well.Not the least of which is the complete failure of local authorities here in St. Louis County to honestly pursue justice for Mike Brown’s family.In recent days, a member of the Darren Wilson grand jury has sued the St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney for the right to publicly expose what really happened in that room.And an ethics complaint has been filed against that same prosecutor, alleging 15 counts of misconduct…including, knowingly allowing false testimony, and delivering outdated and unconstitutional instructions to the grand jury.Two days after Mike Brown was killed, I called Attorney General Holder and asked for his urgent help. And I’m very thankful that the Justice Department responded to my request with great strength.There are two ongoing parallel federal investigations into this case.And I want to assure you that the pursuit of justice for Mike Brown is not over…in fact, it’s just beginning.We’re not going to just sweep this under the rug because it looks bad, or because it makes some of us feel uncomfortable.You know what…all of us should feel uncomfortable.We should be upset and angry…I know I am.We need to be outraged when local law enforcement and the justice system repeatedly allows young, unarmed black men to encounter police…and then wind up dead…with no consequences.Not just in Ferguson…but over and over again across this country.That shouldn’t happen in America."And as the senior Member of Congress for this region, and the Dean of Missouri’s U.S. House delegation…I intend to stand with the courageous young people who are the next generation of our struggle.Their energy and their passion for justice inspires all of us. And I’m proud of them.” -30-
12.19.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 19, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Applauds Presidential Task Force on 21st Century Policing Urges Panel to Review Use of Force, Address Diversity Gap, Recommend Independent Investigations & Prosecutions of Fatal Police ShootingsWASHINGTON. DC –Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised yesterday's White House announcement of the formation of an urgent presidential task force on 21st Century policing. The task force, which will be chaired by Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles H. Ramsey and former Assistant U.S. Attorney General Laurie Robinson, will conduct hearings in Washington and across the nation to engage citizens in honest and sometimes difficult conversations about how to reconnect local law enforcement to the communities they serve, and how to make best policing practices the norm in more departments. They are to report back to the President in 75 days.“I want to thank President Obama for forming this urgent task force to address the root causes of mistrust, the use of excessive force, a lack of diversity and a failure of accountability that occurs in far too many local police departments,”said the Congressman. “And I’m especially proud that the President has appointed Brittany Packnett, one of my outstanding former congressional staffers, to serve on this panel.”Mr. Clay added, “If we’re serious about bridging the gulf of mistrust that exists in far too many communities between local police and the citizens that they are sworn to protect, then this task force must have the courage to drill down to the root causes of why persons of color are often subjected to excessive force by police. My hope is that the panel will also examine whether in the case of a fatal police shooting, the investigation should immediately be transferred for independent review and possible prosecution. That would be a giant step towards restoring credibility and transparency in communities who too often fear the very officers who should be providing them with a sense of peace and security.” -30-
12.17.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 17, 2014 MEDIA CONTACTS:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ACTIONS TO REESTABLISH DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS AND EASE ECONOMIC RESTRICTIONS WITH CUBA NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “I applaud President Obama’s decision to replace our failed, 50-year isolation policy against Cuba. His actions to restore diplomatic relations and to ease significant economic restrictions are smart, strategic, and long-overdue. By establishing normalized diplomatic and financial relations with Cuba, President Obama has also opened the door to grow American jobs by greatly enhancing agricultural exports and trade in life sciences technology which are critical to economic growth in the St. Louis region and across Missouri.Having traveled to Cuba myself on a diplomatic mission, I can attest to the fact that even though they still suffer harsh oppression from the current regime, the Cuban people long to restore their historic friendship with the United States. I am convinced that the best way to advance human rights and political freedom in Cuba is to increase our direct engagement, and I am hopeful that Congress will build on today’s historic announcement by acting to end the economic embargo that was imposed in 1961. That failed policy has done nothing to advance freedom or strengthen our national security, but it has caused innocent people to suffer for generations. Removing it would be in the best interests of the American and Cuban people." -30-
12.01.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 1, 2014 MEDIA CONTACTS:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ACTIONS TO REFORM LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AND MILITARY SURPLUS TRANSFER PROGRAMS AFTER THE TRAGEDY IN FERGUSON, MO NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “I applaud President Obama for his administration’s prompt and extensive review of the Pentagon’s 1033 military surplus transfer program and other similar programs that convey surplus equipment to local law enforcement agencies. The preliminary findings of that review, as requested by myself and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D) Missouri shortly after the police killing of Michael Brown, Jr., substantiate many of our most urgent concerns about these programs, including repeated transfers from multiple federal agencies without coordination; inadequate training for local law enforcement agencies who receive the surplus equipment; and little or no oversight over how the equipment is used in the field. This past August, I personally witnessed thousands of my unarmed constituents who, while peacefully exercising their constitutional rights, were targeted by local police wielding military sniper rifles equipped with night-vision scopes. That should not happen in America.Some of the preliminary recommendations announced today include:· Ensuring that all equipment available for acquisition by law enforcement agencies has a legitimate civilian law enforcement purpose; · including training requirements that address appropriate use and deployment of equipment; and· broadening transparency of the 1033 and other agency equipment repurpose programs.I also strongly support the President’s plan to create a $75 million matching fund to help local enforcement agencies equip their officers with body cameras. If widely implemented, that single change would not only establish real transparency when force is used during a police incident, it would also substantiate the fact that the vast majority of police officers carry out their duties with bravery and integrity. I am developing legislation to further that goal as an urgent national priority.My hope is that all these efforts will spur a national discussion about how to achieve a fundamental shift in local law enforcement, away from military-style responses, and towards a more community-based policy. -30-
11.25.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 24, 2014MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING ST. LOUIS COUNTY GRAND JURY DECISION IN THE POLICE KILLING OF MICHAEL BROWN, JR.NOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri"From the beginning of this tragic case, I have repeatedly expressed my grave concerns about the local investigation into the police killing of Michael Brown, Jr.Today...sadly, we see that those concerns were well-founded.The grand jury's decision to not indict Officer Darin Wilson is extremely disappointing, but not unexpected.Two days after Michael Brown was killed, I contacted U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to request the urgent assistance of the Department of Justice.I am thankful that the Attorney General and his staff responded with great speed and strength.He has assured me that the ongoing federal investigations will be extensive, vigorous, and will follow the facts, wherever they lead.The pursuit of justice for Michael Brown, Jr. and his family is not over.While I share the anger and frustration of so many in our community, I ask everyone to be peaceful.Be prayerful.And remain disciplined & dignified in everything that we must now do as we go forward together to confront the huge disparities that continue to deny equal protection under the law for persons of color in our region, and across this nation.That is the best way to honor Michael Brown's memory."
11.21.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 20, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S EXECUTIVE ACTIONS TO FIX OUR NATION’S BROKEN IMMIGRATION SYSTEM NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “I strongly support President Obama’s courageous and historic executive actions to fix elements of our long-broken immigration system that fall under his direct constitutional authority. The President was forced to act after House Republicans refused to allow debate or a vote on a comprehensive immigration reform bill which passed the U.S. Senate with a huge bipartisan majority over 500 days ago.Fundamental immigration reform is the single smartest thing that we could do to spur economic growth. It is also a test of our humanity. That’s why it is supported by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, the AFL-CIO, the U.S. Chambers of Commerce and hundreds of other faith-based, labor and business groups. The President’s wise executive actions are in the best tradition of former presidents who have taken similar steps. These executive orders will elevate the millions who till our fields, cook our meals, clean our offices and care for our loved ones towards a path of legal status, giving them an opportunity to pay their fair share and finally live free from fear.” -30-
11.13.2014	Clay Swears in 4th Class of Missouri’s 1st District Congressional Youth CabinetBest & Brightest Area High School Students Will Advise Congress on Key National and Local Issues in Unique, Ongoing Civic Engagement ST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has sworn in the 4thClass of Missouri’s 1stDistrict Congressional Youth Cabinet at Harris-Stowe State University. The Congressman and Harris-Stowe State University President Dr. Dwaun J. Wormack welcomed 26 outstanding high school students from across the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County. The Congressional Youth Cabinet will advise Congressman Clay and his staff on key national and local issues that impact young people. In his remarks to the exceptional group of young people who were all nominated by their high school principals, Congressman Clay said, “This is not just a nice honor or a passive appointment. This is about your personal commitment to real youth civic engagement. The C.Y.C. will give me a direct link to the things that really matter to you and have an impact on your life. I need your voices, your energy, and your fresh ideas to help me do my job better. Together, we are going to discuss the most important issues facing our nation and our community.”Congressman Clay’s Congressional Youth Cabinet has already tackled issues like bullying; race relations; violence directed against women and children; combatting homelessness; and other important community service projects, including a very successful blood drive in cooperation with the American Red Cross Members of the 2015 Missouri 1stDistrictCongressional Youth Cabinet Daniel Blash, Washington University of St. LouisKayla Brookins, Cardinal Ritter Prep.Alexis Colbert, Carnahan High School of the FutureZaria Dukes, Ritenour High SchoolJazlen Durgins, Soldan High School Meliza Garcia, Gateway Tech. High SchoolJoseph Goldman, Parkway North High SchoolJulia Green, Cardinal Ritter Prep. High SchoolLauryn Hudson, McCluer North High School Princess Ingram, Rosati-Kain High SchoolBharadwaj Jilakara, Parkway North High SchoolMakayla Jones, North County Christian School Nicole Jordan, Madison Prep.Kayla Houston, Parkway North High SchoolCarniel Kinnie, Lutheran North High School Olivia Martin, MICDSAshley Marshall, Cardinal Ritter High SchoolRichard Omoniyi-Shoyoola, Metro High SchoolAmesha Payne, Carnahan High School of the Future Cortise Perry, Gateway Tech. Margaret (Maggie) Smith, Rosati-Kain High SchoolKarlie Thornton, Hazelwood West High SchoolQuencee Thompson, North County Christian School Maxyne Umana, Soldan High School Romekia Wallace, Cardinal Ritter College Prep. Imani Welch, Cardinal Ritter College Prep.
10.28.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 28, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Urges Justice Dept. to Expand Federal Probe to Cover Municipal Courts in St. Louis City & County - New Data Indicates Low-Income, Minority Residents Serving as ATM Machines for Local Government WASHINGTON. DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri is urging the U.S. Department of Justice to expand an ongoing federal probe of the St. Louis County Family Court to include municipal courts in both the City of St. Louis and throughout St. Louis County. Clay, the senior Member of Congress for the St. Louis region, asked newly appointed Acting Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta to expand the DOJ investigation after reviewing troubling data provided in a new report by the nonprofit civic group, Better Together.“The very disturbing findings in the Better Together report indicate that municipal courts in both the City of St. Louis and many jurisdictions in St. Louis County often function as little more than municipal ATM machines," said the Congressman. “They repeatedly victimize local residents, many of whom are African American, who have modest resources that might be better spent on essentials for their families.”Congressman Clay’s letter to DOJ states in part, “One particularly troubling fact is that municipal courts in the St. Louis region accounted for 46% of all fines and fees collected statewide. However, the St. Louis region only makes up 22% of all Missourians. The apparent targeted and prolific collection of fees and fines from this specific population is unconscionable. Additionally, there have been media reports and community-wide allegations of severe and extreme measures taken to collect the fees and fines. These municipalities cannot continue to financially survive largely and disproportionately on the backs of the African American community.” The full report by Better Together, is available at www.bettertogetherstl.com -30-
09.26.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 25, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PENDING RESIGNATION OF U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER NOTE: The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I commend and congratulate Attorney General Holder for his three decades of public service in the pursuit of equal protection under the law for all Americans.I want to thank the Attorney General for his fierce advocacy in defense of voting rights, women's rights, the rights of minorities and the disabled, and protecting the fundamental constitutional guarantees that all Americans should be assured of.His strong and swift response to my special request to engage the full force of the Justice Department in an effort to achieve justice for Michael Brown and his family in Ferguson, Missouri will never be forgotten.I am confident that his successor, along with the strong, energetic team whom the Attorney General has entrusted to conduct the two parallel federal investigations into this tragedy, will complete their work with great urgency, a devotion to the law, and a true sense of compassion." -30-
09.26.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 25, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PENDING RESIGNATION OF U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER NOTE: The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I commend and congratulate Attorney General Holder for his three decades of public service in the pursuit of equal protection under the law for all Americans.I want to thank the Attorney General for his fierce advocacy in defense of voting rights, women's rights, the rights of minorities and the disabled, and protecting the fundamental constitutional guarantees that all Americans should be assured of.His strong and swift response to my special request to engage the full force of the Justice Department in an effort to achieve justice for Michael Brown and his family in Ferguson, Missouri will never be forgotten.I am confident that his successor, along with the strong, energetic team whom the Attorney General has entrusted to conduct the two parallel federal investigations into this tragedy, will complete their work with great urgency, a devotion to the law, and a true sense of compassion." -30-
09.18.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 18, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING MISSOURI GOVERNOR JAY NIXON’s EXECUTIVE ORDER CREATING NEW OFFICE OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I applaud Governor Nixon’s executive order to create the new Missouri Office of Community Engagement that will focus on critical issues which impact minorities and low-income communities. I am hopeful that this new office will engage citizens at the grass roots level in Ferguson, and across our state, to begin the long-overdue, difficult conversation about the very real disparities based on race and poverty which have produced a lack of jobs and opportunity and unequal treatment by the judicial system.” -30-
09.11.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 10, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ADDRESS TO THE NATION ANNOUNCING COUNTER-TERRORISM ACTION AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ AND THE LEVANT NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I strongly support President Obama’s plan to degrade, and ultimately destroy ISIL. This savage terrorist movement that has already committed multiple atrocities must be stopped by a sustained counter-terrorism effort, not just by the United States, but with the full participation of our allies. ISIL poses a very real threat to our homeland and to free people everywhere. The strategy that the President outlined tonight is strong, strategic and worthy of bipartisan support.” -30-
09.10.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 10, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Says U.S. Dept. of Transportation TIGER Grant is Huge Step Forward for Cortex and St. Louis’ Innovation Corridor$10.3 Million Federal Grant Will Pave Way For New MetroLink StationWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri is praising the awarding of a $10.3 million TIGER grant by the U.S. Department of Transportation that will provide the bulk of the funding needed to build a new MetroLink stop that will serve Cortex and the growing innovation corridor in midtown St. Louis. Mr. Clay, the senior U.S. Representative for the St. Louis region, strongly supported Cortex’s highly competitive grant application. “This TIGER grant is a huge step forward for Cortex and St. Louis’ quickly expanding innovation district,” said the Congressman.“I want to personally thank President Obama and Secretary Foxx for helping me provide this vital federal infrastructure investment that will grow jobs and continue to attract exceptional young talent to St. Louis’ growing technology base.”The U.S. Department of Transportation’s TIGER grant program (Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) is a very competitive process; with more than 800 grant applications submitted during this past round of funding.The new MetroLink station at Cortex will be the first expansion of the popular light rail system since 2006. Cortex officials are hopeful that the new station will be operational by late 2016 or early 2017. 30-
09.04.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 4, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING LAUNCH OF U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATION OF FERGUSON, MISSOURI POLICE DEPARTMENT NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I am very gratified that the Department of Justice has responded to my concerns and those of my constituents by launching this federal probe into possible civil rights violations that may have been committed by the Ferguson, Missouri Police Department. I want to personally thank Attorney General Holder for responding to my request with such strength and speed." -30-
08.22.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 21, 2014 MEDIA CONTACTS:(CLAY) STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 (CLEAVER) MARY PETROVIC (202) 579-6085 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI, CONGRESSMAN EMANUEL CLEAVER (D) MISSOURI REGARDING MEETING WITH SECRETARY OF DEFENSE CHUCK HAGEL CONCERNING THE MILITARIZATION OF LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri andCongressman Emanuel Cleaver (D) Missouri “We are pleased to report that we had a productive, expansive and very encouraging meeting with Secretary Hagel this evening regarding our urgent concerns about the militarization of local law enforcement agencies through the distribution of surplus Department of Defense equipment via the 1033 Program. We have asked the Secretary to review the program and to respond with his recommendations quickly.The discussion allowed us to share our objections, and those of our constituents, who are seeking a vigorous review of the existing 1033 program and some important changes to ensure public safety and the preservation of fundamental constitutional rights.That includes the right to assemble and peacefully protest without the unacceptable threat of an overbearing police response which targets law-abiding citizens with military weapons and technology.If there is any good that can come out of the tragedy in Ferguson, Missouri, our hope is that this effort will spur a national discussion about how to achieve a fundamental shift in local law enforcement, away from military-style responses, and towards a more community-based policy.” -30-
08.22.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 20, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE BRIEFING WITH U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER ON THE POLICE SHOOTING OF MICHAEL BROWN NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri ST. LOUIS - “Good evening, we have just completed an extensive briefing with U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. As this is an ongoing federal investigation, I cannot comment on specific evidence.But I do want to thank President Obama and the Attorney General for responding to my call to expedite and expand the federal investigation of this police shooting.They have responded with great strength and I appreciate that, and I know that the community appreciates it as well.As I have said before, I continue to have serious concerns about the local criminal investigation.But I have complete confidence in the federal team that is working this case.I made a promise to Michael Brown’s mother that we would focus every possible federal resource to bring justice to her family, and I intend to keep that promise.”
08.15.2014	STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING GOVERNOR JAY NIXON’S ACTION ON MICHAEL BROWN POLICE SHOOTING NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I commend Governor Nixon for his decision to transfer control of public security in Ferguson to the Missouri Highway Patrol.Since the tragedy occurred this past weekend, I have been in regular contact with Governor Nixon regarding the troubling situation in Ferguson.I expressed my absolute commitment to pursue justice for Michael Brown and his family, and to restore safety and order for citizens and media who should be free to exercise their constitutional rights, without fear of police repression.I look forward to working closely with the Governor to ensure the viability and complete independence of the criminal investigation.”
08.11.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 11, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay, Conyers, Fudge Request Expanded FBI Probe in Police Shooting of Unarmed Black Teen in Ferguson, MissouriLetter to Attorney General Holder Requests Expanded Justice Department Probe into Civil Rights Violations, Alleged Pattern of Police Misconduct WASHINGTON, D.C.– In the wake of last Saturday’s tragic police shooting of Michael Brown, an 18-year old unarmed African American teen in Ferguson, Missouri, who was shot multiple times and killed by a Ferguson police officer, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, joined by House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Congressman John Conyers (D) Michigan, and Congresswoman Marsha Fudge (D) Ohio have asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to expand the scope of the FBI investigation into the shooting, including a rigorous review of patterns of alleged police misconduct.In their letter to Attorney General Holder. Mr. Clay and his colleagues wrote:“In light of the foregoing developments, we ask the Department of Justice to investigate the shooting of Michael Brown, looking at both the facts of the specific incident as well as the potential for any pattern or practice of police misconduct by the Ferguson Police Department.We understand that the St. Louis County Police Department is investigating the matter in order to have some level of independent investigation take place, but this arrangement is insufficient for at least two reasons. First, the St. Louis County Police Department may not be the most objective or credible body to investigate civil rights matters involving law enforcement given evidence of racial profiling by that department in the recent past, which Congressman Clay had asked the Department of Justice to investigate.Second, only the federal government has the resources, the experience, and the full independence to give this case the close scrutiny that the citizens of Ferguson and the greater St. Louis area deserve. Moreover, to the extent that a pattern or practice of police misconduct may exist, such misconduct would be a clear violation of federal law, including 42 U.S.C. § 14141, which makes it unlawful for State or local law enforcementofficers to engage in a pattern or practice of conduct that deprives persons of rights protected bythe Constitution or laws of the United States. Such conduct would include the use of excessive force by police.”-30-
07.16.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 16, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING HIS OPPOSITION TO THE SHORT-TERM PATCH FOR THE HIGHWAY TRANSPORTATION TRUST FUNDNOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri“The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 is a flawed, short-term solution that fails to meet an enormous, long-term challenge. The proposed extension would expire in May 2015, leaving many critical highway projects unfunded and in danger of failing; and it would also come up short as a job creator.I support an alternative highway funding proposal that is expected to be introduced by Senators Corker and Murphy. Their bill would increase the federal motor fuel tax, raising approximately $164 billion over the next ten years to be used for the trust fund.That’s the responsible way to pay for highway improvements. The people and industries that use our highways the most should pay their fair share. That’s why I also oppose Amendment 7 on the August 5th ballot in Missouri. It’s regressive and wrong to place a higher sales tax burden on low-income residents who are already struggling to get by; while allowing huge trucks, who create most of the wear & tear on Missouri’s highways, to pay nothing.”
07.16.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 16, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Note: This special guest commentary by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri appeared in today’s edition of Roll Call (7.16.14) New EPA Clean Air Rule Is a Moral Imperative for Future Generations | CommentaryCourtesy of Roll CallBy Rep. William Lacy ClayJuly 16, 2014While many of my colleagues are focused on the endless and overheated political debate surrounding the newly proposed Environmental Protection Agency rule on reducing carbon emissions, when you remove the rhetoric and weigh the plain facts, this decision rests on two primary questions: (1) What kind of planet will we leave to future generations? (2) Do we have the backbone to put public health ahead of profit?The honest answers to those two fundamental considerations are clear and compelling.I strongly support the newly proposed EPA clean air rule because it is a critical moral test of our national will to save lives now and in the future, and to preserve a better quality of life for generations to come.In my home state of Missouri, 80 percent of our electric power is produced by coal-fired power plants. These power plants are the single biggest source of carbon emissions and other dangerous pollutants like sulfur dioxide. That’s the reality in many other parts of the country too.Not surprisingly, in the St. Louis area, our rates of asthma and other chronic respiratory diseases are shockingly high, especially for children.According to recent data provided by the Missouri Department of Health, 10.1 percent of all children ages 17 and younger in my home state have been diagnosed with asthma.But in the city of St. Louis, that figure climbs to 19.6 percent, and minority children account for 91.9 percent of all emergency room visits for asthma attacks. Last year, 472 young people were hospitalized for asthma, and tragically, five of them died.The inescapable public health argument for the new EPA clean air rule was made very powerfully by Harold P. Wimmer, national president & CEO of the American Lung Association. In announcing his organization’s support, he said: “Power plant pollution makes people sick and cuts short lives. “We are pleased to see significant health benefits from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s proposed limits on carbon pollution from power plants, which would prevent up to 4,000 premature deaths and 100,000 asthma attacks in the first year they are in place, and prevent up to 6,600 premature deaths and 150,000 asthma attacks in 2030.“Cleaning up carbon pollution will have an immediate, positive impact on public health; particularly for those who suffer from chronic diseases like asthma, heart disease or diabetes. Steps to clean up carbon pollution can reduce sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, both poisonous emissions from coal-fired power plants that are also major precursors to lethal ozone and particulate matter pollution.”We also have a very real moral obligation to leave our children a planet that’s less polluted and more sustainable. As a parent, I have a generational duty to do everything in my power to slow the effects of climate change and advance the development of renewable energy sources so that we leave a cleaner, more stable environment for the future.Regardless of the current rancor on this new EPA clean air rule, the facts are clear, our duty is obvious and no amount of lobbying or political manipulation will change that.There is no question that this newly proposed rule will save lives and improve the quality of life for future generations of Americans.Cleaner air and a more sustainable future are not Democratic or Republican issues; they are essential national priorities. That’s why this rule should be fully implemented now, without delay.Rep. William Lacy Clay is a Democrat from Missouri. -30
06.24.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 24, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Original Cosponsor of Export-Import Bank ReauthorizationSays Act is Critical to Protecting Hundreds of Thousands of American Jobs,Giving American Companies a Level Playing Field in World MarketsWASHINGTON, D.C.– In the face of House Republican’s failure to protect American jobs and give U.S. companies a fair chance to compete in world markets, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, the Ranking Member on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Monetary Policy & Trade is the first, original cosponsor ofthe Protect American Jobs and Exports Act of 2014.The bill, introduced by Congressman Denny Heck (D) Washington, calls for a seven-year reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank of the United States and an increase in the lending cap to $175 billion.“The reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank is vital to protecting hundreds of thousands of good American jobsandgrowing our economy byexpanding international business opportunities for our best companies,”said theCongressman.“This essential financial institution is self-sustaining and actually returns a profit to the taxpayers.”Mr. Clay added,“Protecting American jobs andhelping U.S. businesses grow didn’t used to be a partisan issue. In fact in 2012, 330 Republicans joined us to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. We should do the same thing this year. This bipartisan bill, which is strongly supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the NationalAssociation ofManufacturers,and organized labor, deserves a vote in the House without delay.”The Export-Import Bank helps American businesses sell their goods and services overseas by guaranteeing that they receive compensation for the transaction. Without it, at least 205,000 American jobs would be at risk. The Export-Import Bank supported an estimated $37.4 billion in U.S. export sales in 2013, while returning over $1 billion to the American taxpayers. If Congress fails to act, the bank’s charter will expire on September 30, 2014.To see the American companies that use the Export-Import Bank to sell goods and services abroad, visit the Export-Import Bank’sexport data map available online.-30
06.03.2014	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY, 6.3.14 Thousands of Eager Job Seekers Pack Clay’s 9th Annual Career Fair109 Top National & Local Employers Greet Huge, Hopeful CrowdsEven before he opened the doors to his 9th annual Career Fair, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri greeted a line of eager job seekers that stretched around the Emerson Performance Center at historic Harris-Stowe State University in midtown St. Louis. By the end of the event, more than 5,000 guests had come through the doors.“The year’s Career Fair was truly record-breaking with 109 top local and national employers who were seeking to fill over 1000 job openings. They were greeted by huge and enthusiastic crowds all day long,” said the Congressman. “I was especially pleased to see the positive attitudes and great energy of our job seekers who were ready to network and go to work. As the economy continues to recover, unemployment and underemployment are still urgent issues in the First Congressional District, and my Career Fair directly addresses that.”Job seekers were able to meet with 109 top St. Louis employers, including: the Boeing Company; Ameren; BJC Healthcare Systems; Citigroup; World Wide Technology; Express Scripts; Charter Communications; Clear Channel Communications; Radio One; CBS Radio Group; Emmis Communications; the Drug Enforcement Agency; the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the U.S. Postal Service; St. Louis Community Credit Union, and many other fine firms.For the seventh consecutive year, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management joined the Career Fair lineup by providing a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for, thousands of federal jobs, worldwide. They also offered special help for returning veterans who are transitioning back to civilian life.Congressman Clay’s annual Career Fair was presented with the invaluable help and support of Harris-Stowe State University, and all of our outstanding vendor partners. We thank them for their participation and we look forward to Career Fair ‘2015.#30#
05.28.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 29, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURION THE PASSING OF NATIVE ST. LOUISAN, DR. MAYA ANGELOUNOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “Dr. Maya Angelou’s inspirational voice spoke of struggle, courage, freedom, and the absolute demand for human dignity. Her magnificent body of work, as an author & poet, on stage & film, and in her career as an educator, will live forever.Her passing is the loss of a great soul who knew the brutality of racism and violence in her youth. She responded to evil and injustice with a piercing eloquence that spoke directly to the hearts of the American people and uplifted millions around the world.Always an innovator, Dr. Angelou embraced the digital age. In her final “tweet.” which was posted just five days ago, she said,“Listen to yourself and in that quietude you might hear the voice of God.”Dr. Angelou was born in St. Louis on April 4, 1928, where she has always been celebrated with pride as a true community treasure. She was inducted into the St. Louis Walk of Fame in 1992. In 2010, President Obama awarded Dr. Angelou the Presidential Medal of Freedom, our nation’s highest civilian honor. -30-
05.23.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 23, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING MISSOURI GOVERNOR JAY NIXON’S INTENTION TO VETO SB 493 NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I strongly support Governor Nixon’s courageous decision to veto this flawed and very dangerous bill. SB 493 is a thinly veiled assault on public education, fueled by special interests that are willing to trap mostly minority students in underperforming schools while they assault the constitution in order to advance their own private agendas. As the Governor noted, this bill would do nothing to fix the transfer problem, nothing to close the achievement gap, and in fact, it would make a bad situation much worse.” -30
05.23.2014	Clay Cosponsors House Resolution to “Bring Back Our Girls”Praises Bipartisan Support to Help Rescue Kidnapped Nigerian Students, Combat Terrorism FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, 5.23.14MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised U.S. House passage of H.Res. 573, a bipartisan bill that he co-sponsored condemning the abduction of Nigerian school girls by the terrorist organization Boko Haram, and pledging direct U.S. support to assist with locating and rescuing the young students. President Obama has just notified Congress that a small, specialized contingent of U.S. troops have been deployed to the area to conduct advanced aerial reconnaissance in an effort to locate the kidnapped girls.“Over a month ago, almost 300 young Nigerian women were kidnapped from their school in northeastern Nigeria by the brutal Boko Haram terrorists. Their only offense was the desire to receive a decent education in order to build a better future for themselves and their families,” said Mr. Clay. “All free people everywhere must stand together to oppose this outrageous violence against innocent young women. I am very pleased that President Obama has authorized U.S. forces to assist Nigeria with specialized logistics and reconnaissance help to locate the girls, and if possible, to bring them home safely without delay.The just-passed bipartisan legislation cosponsored by Congressman Clay supports the people of Nigeria, especially the parents and families of the girls abducted by Boko Haram in Borno state, and calls for their immediate and safe return. The bill condemns Boko Haram for its attacks on civilian targets, including schools, mosques, churches, villages, and agricultural centers. The act also encourages the government of Nigeria to strengthen efforts to protect children seeking an education and to hold those who conduct such attacks fully accountable.-30-
05.19.2014	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 5.19.2014Clay’s 9th Annual Career Fair Will Feature Over 100 Top EmployersThousands of Eager Job Seekers Expected to Attend St. Louis’ Biggest Free Jobs Event Monday, June 2nd at Harris-Stowe State University-ST.LOUIS- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will present his 9th Annual First District Career Fair on Monday, June 2nd from 9:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m. at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center located at 3026 Laclede Avenue. This unique jobs event will feature over 100 of the St. Louis area’s top employers, and it’s absolutely free.“My top priority is putting my constituents back to work and connecting them with quality job opportunities that they could not take advantage of on their own.” said the Congressman.“Our Career Fair is St. Louis’ biggest and best jobs event. We will feature over 100 companies from all sectors of the local economy who are currently hiring, along with great job opportunities with federal, state and local government agencies.” The Congressman added, “Last year, over 5,000 job seekers attended. I would advise guests to arrive early, dress for success and have your resumes ready.”For those interested in public service, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for thousands of federal jobs, worldwide. OPM and the Veterans Administration will also offer special assistance to veterans who are transitioning back to civilian life.Among the top St. Louis employers who will be on hand are:Ameren; the Boeing Company; Express Scripts; BJC Healthcare Systems; World Wide Technology; Clear Channel Communications; CBS Radio; Emmis Communications; Charter Communications; Centene Corporation; Wells Fargo Advisors; Lodging Hospitality Management; Lumiere Place; Hollywood Casino; PNC Bank; the U.S. Postal Service and many others.-30
05.06.2014	Clay Honors 29 Outstanding Young High School Artists at 14th Annual Congressional Art CompetitionWinner Will Travel to Washington, DC Display Work at U.S. Capitol FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 5.6.14MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT(314) 504-4029 ST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) St. Louis saluted 29 young artists from area high schools at his 14th Annual Congressional Art Competition. The event, which was held at Portfolio Gallery in the historic Grand Center Arts District, drew entries from across Missouri’s 1st Congressional District. In his remarks to the young artists, Congressman Clay said, “Among the hundreds of events that I attend each year, this is always one of my favorites. As you can see from the artwork on display here, the level of talent is truly impressive. I am so proud of all of you.”The Congressman also thanked the parents and teachers who had supported the creativity of these exceptional young people. With thanks and appreciation for all of the entries, here are the results of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition in Missouri’s 1st Congressional District: 1st place: “It Starts With a Whisper,” a work in pencil created by Micheala Intveld-Sutherlin, of McCluer High School.(Micheala will travel to Washington, DC, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, where her winning entry will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol Complex) 2nd place: “Resplendence,” a watercolor created by Lynda Tolley, of Ritenour High School. 3rd place (tie): “Colorful Walkway,” a digital photograph created by Mary McGuire, of Clayton High School. 3rd place (tie): “Castle on the Water,” an ink etching created by Claire Tshampel, of University City High School. Congratulations to all the talented artists who participated in this year’s competition. -30-
04.30.2014	Clay Issues Personal Invitation to GOP Budget Chairman Paul Ryan to Come to St. Louis to See Harsh Impact of Republican Fiscal Year 2015 BudgetAsks Fellow Catholic Legislator to Focus on Universal Values of Social & Economic Justice FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, 4.30.14MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, the Dean of Missouri’s U.S. House delegation, delivered a personal invitation to House GOP Budget Chairman, Congressman Paul Ryan (R) Wisconsin, to come to St. Louis to see first-hand, the devastating impact that the proposed GOP FY15 budget would have on hard-working people. The invitation came during a private meeting earlier today between Mr. Ryan and Members of the Congressional Black Caucus. Congressman Clay, a vocal critic of the proposed GOP FY15 budget, appealed to Chairman Ryan as a fellow Catholic legislator, on the basis of their shared faith tradition.In his letter to Mr. Ryan, Mr. Clay wrote, “Although we are of different parties, we share the same faith tradition, and hopefully, the core human values that our mother church considers to be universal matters of social and economic justice for all people. Today, with an open heart, I extend a personal invitation to you, as a fellow Catholic, to come to St. Louis to experience first-hand, the devastating impact that the proposed House FY15 Republican budget would have on thousands of hard-working citizens whom I am honored to represent.It is often said that a budget is a blueprint of our values…a moral roadmap of what really matters to real people. I am sorry to report that in the State of Missouri, the proposed Republican FY15 budget would deprive over 13,000 low-income students of Pell Grants; leave over 3,000 at-risk children with no access to Head Start; allow over 1700 abused women to lose the protection of the STOP Violence Against Women Program; and would force almost 90,000 seniors to pay more for their medications by enlarging the Medicare Part D drug donut hole. Your budget would also slash federal support for cherished Catholic nonprofit institutions like the renowned St. Patrick Center which has transformed the lives of thousands of homeless citizens from dependency to independence and dignity. I appeal to you as a fellow brother in faith to join me in earnest dialogue regarding our nation’s budget priorities.” Historically, the U.S. Council of Catholic Bishops has strongly criticized almost identical GOP Budget proposals authored by Congressman Ryan as“Failing to meet the moral test of protecting the poor, morally indefensible, and betraying Catholic principles of solidarity, just taxation and a commitment to the common good."-30-
04.22.2014	Clay Nominates 13 Exceptional St. Louis Area Students to Attend U.S. Service AcademiesClass of 2014 is Diverse, Talented and Committed FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, 4.22.14MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029ST.LOUIS- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has nominated 13 outstanding young students from across the 1st Congressional District to attend our nation’s time-honored military service academies. In his remarks at the nomination ceremony, held at the University of Missouri – Saint Louis, the Congressman said, “I am extraordinary proud to nominate these remarkable young students. You not only excel at academics & athletics, you have also demonstrated a real commitment to serving your country and building up our community. I join with your proud parents, families & friends as we congratulate each of you.” Mr. Clay continued, “Today’s ceremony also recalls that service to our nation is a commitment that passes from generation to generation. Always remember that you are standing on the shoulders of brave men and women who came before you.”Congressman Clay is proud to present the following exceptional young Americans as his Class of 2014, U.S. Service Academy Nominees. Christian Bledsoe John Burroughs High SchoolNominated to the U.S. Military Academy Timothy Carter: Home-schooledNominated to U.S Air Force and Merchant Marine Academies Benjamin Gliedt De Smet Jesuit High SchoolNominated to U. S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military AcademyJoshua Howsmon: Clayton High SchoolNominated to U. S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy Tanner Juch Hazelwood West High SchoolNominated to U. S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy Katie Kohler Oakville Senior High SchoolNominated to U.S. Air Force, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy Alex McNeil Webster Groves High SchoolNominated to U. S. Military Academy Jotham Nixon Gateway STEM High SchoolNominated to U. S. Naval and Merchant Marine Academies John Putnam Saint Louis University High SchoolNominated to U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy Lunsford Schock Mary Institute/Saint Louis Country Day SchoolNominated to U. S. Naval Academy Ruth Snipes-Soward Cardinal Ritter College PrepNominated to U. S. Naval Academy. Zachary Vaughn Hazelwood West High SchoolNominated to U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy Timothy Wenholz Home-schooledNominated to U. S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy #30#
04.01.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASETUESDAY, 4.1.14MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Says Republican Budget is a “Cruel Assault on Seniors & the Most Vulnerable”Challenges GOP Budget Chairman US Rep. Paul Ryan to come to St. Louis to see the damage his budget would inflict on seniors, hard-working people WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Domestic & International Monetary Policy, blasted the Republican Fiscal Year 2015 budget as presented today by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R) Wisconsin. “The Republican budget that Chairman Ryan unveiled today is a cruel assault on seniors, students, the working poor and middle-class families who are struggling to regain their economic security,” said Mr. Clay, who is the Dean of Missouri’s U.S. House delegation. “The GOP Budget would end Medicare as we know it, slash funding for Pell Grants & Supplemental Nutrition and cripple future job growth by gutting support for scientific research and job training.”said the Congressman. “I want to invite Chairman Ryan to come to St. Louis to see and hear from the seniors, students and hard-working people whom his budget would hurt the most.” Lowlights of the House Republican Budget for Fiscal Year 2015 -It would end Medicare as we know it, turning it into a voucher program and risking a death spiral in traditional Medicare. Seniors on Medicare will immediately pay more for preventive health services, those with high prescription drugs costs will see prices skyrocket, and it will mean the end of the current Medicare guarantee. Millions of seniors in nursing homes will be especially hurt by the irresponsible cuts to Medicaid. -Instead of ensuring that Americans earn a fair wage for a hard day’s work and lifting millions of people out of poverty, the House Republican approach undermines Americans working hard to support their families by slashing food stamps and Medicaid. -The House Republican Budget would raise taxes on middle class families with children by an average of at least $2,000 in order to cut taxes for households with incomes over $1 million. -It would force deep cuts to investments in our roads and bridges. -It would slash federal investments in scientific research to cure diseases like Alzheimer’s. -It would reduce access to a quality education for lower income students by cutting Pell grants and support for community colleges. -With over 14 million Americans now covered under all portions of the Affordable Care Act, including the 7.1 million who have enrolled through the marketplace exchanges, the GOP budget would repeal the ACA, raising health care costs on families and businesses and erasing all of the patients protections now guaranteed under the law. This budget is the Republican declaration of class warfare – it protects the wealthiest 1% at the expense of the rest of the country. It would rig the game in favor of the privileged special interests while dismantling the ladder of opportunity for everyone else; it violates the fundamental promise that every hard-working American should have a fair shot at success. ###
03.26.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, WEDNESDAY, 3.26.14MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Demands a Vote on Comprehensive Immigration ReformSigns House Democrats’ ‘Demand a Vote’ Petition to Force Vote on Bipartisan Reform LegislationWASHINGTON, D.C. – With House Republicans continuing to block a vote on bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri took action today to force a vote, signing a “Demand A Vote” petition on the floor of the U.S. House. The petition would force a vote on H.R. 15, the bipartisan Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act…legislation that would help secure our border, protect our workers, unite our families, provide an earned pathway to citizenship, and create jobs.“It’s painfully obvious that our immigration policy is broken and we need to fix it now,” said the Congressman.The bipartisan bill, which received 68 votes in the U.S. Senate. would have a huge positive impact on our economy. It would solidify the future of Social Security & Medicare, and it would give millions of undocumented immigrants a pathway to come out of the shadows, earn their citizenship, and become law-abiding and productive Americans. The question of immigration reform is not just a matter of law…it’s also about compassion, keeping families together, and upholding the dignity of every human being who is in this country. It’s time for Speaker Boehner to stop blocking this sensible bipartisan reform and allow a vote to create jobs, empower our small businesses and reduce the deficit.”It has been almost nine months since the Senate passed its own comprehensive immigration reform legislation by an overwhelming bipartisan margin of 68-32. Comprehensive immigration reform has enjoyed widespread support from law enforcement, faith leaders, the business community and the American people. A report issued yesterday by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office found that the House legislation, H.R. 15 would reduce the deficit by $900 billion over the next two decades – including $200 in the first decade alone. The bill, which is cosponsored by Congressman Clay, has 200 co-sponsors, including 3 Republicans. Yet the Republican leadership refuses to allow a vote. ###
03.10.2014	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, MONDAY 3.10.14 Clay Swears in 2014 Class of Missouri’s 1st District Congressional Youth CabinetBest & Brightest Area High School Students Will Advise Congress on Key National and Local Issues in Unique, Ongoing Civic Engagement ST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has sworn in the 2014 Class of Missouri’s 1st District Congressional Youth Cabinet in the St. Louis County Council Chambers at the County Government Center. The Congressman and St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley welcomed 42 outstanding high school students from across the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County. The Congressional Youth Cabinet will advise Congressman Clay and his staff on key national and local issues that impact young people. In his remarks to the exceptional group of young people who were all nominated by their high school principals, Congressman Clay said, “This is not just a nice honor or a passive appointment. This is an exercise in real youth civic engagement. The C.Y.C. will give me a direct link to the things that really matter to you and have an impact on your life. I need your voices, your energy, and your personal investment in this endeavor, to help me do my job better. You are going to discuss the most important issues facing our nation and our community.”Congressman Clay’s Congressional Youth Cabinet has already tackled issues like bullying, race relations and violence directed at women and children. It is an on-going process that will provide top students with a path to become advocates for the issues that matter to them.Members of the 2014 Missouri 1st DistrictCongressional Youth CabinetJacob Anderson-Little Central VPA HSMatthew Austin Crossroads College PrepRyan J. Batisto McCluer North HSBrooke Beatrice Crossroads College PrepJaryn Amir Blackshear-Bryant Cardinal Ritter College Prep.Jorden Blair Gateway STEM HSDaniel Blash Washington University in St. LouisMarlynna Blumer University City HSIndia Bradley Cardinal Ritter College Prep.Keisha Brent College Prep. HSDaisia Brown Soldan Int. Studies HSD'Lija Brown University City HSDana Buchanan Clyde C. Miller Career AcademyAllison Van Buren Pattonville HSKendric Carlock Central VPA HSAlauna Christian Clyde C. Miller Career AcademyAlexis Colbert Carnahan HS of the FutureGianni Cook University City HSJacqueline M. Cox Cardinal Ritter College Prep.David Cross Lutheran HS NorthSydney Everett Barnard CollegeBenjamin Farmer North County Christian SchoolLaura Fulton Pattonville HSKayla Houston Parkway North HSMarie Victoria Ingram McCluer HSBharadwaj Jilakara Parkway North HSCourtney Kelsey Gateway STEM HSClifton L. Kinnie II Lutheran HS NorthMatthew Larios Gateway STEM HSJordan Loehr Soldan International HSChelsea Mackey Hazelwod East HSRachel Murphy Pattonville HSFredmartin Mwangi Hazelwood West HSRoyce Purley Crossroads College Prep SchoolTirzah Z. Russell Central VPANathalie Solorio Pattonville HSMikal Smith Cardinal Ritter College Prep HSFran Stuart University City HSNicolas Vazquez Hazelwood West HSChristian J. Wallace Normandy HSMichael Joseph Watson, Jr. Hazelwood West HSAliyah Wilson Crossroads College Prep School
02.28.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 28, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Debuts New District Office in FlorissantNew North County Location Will Add to Constituent OutreachST. LOUIS, MO– Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay’s (D) Missouri new district office in Florissant, MO is open for business. Mr. Clay’s new constituent services center is located in the First Bank Building at 1281 Graham Road, Suite 202, Florissant, MO 63031.“I’m so pleased to bring all of our federal services closer to my constituents in the heart of North St. Louis County,” said the Congressman. “Our new full-service office in Florissant is staffed every day and we are ready to help with Social Security, Medicare, veteran’s affairs, immigration and all other federal issues.”Congressman Clay’s new office in Florissant is the fourth in his network of constituent service centers. Other locations include offices on Capitol Hill in the Rayburn House Office Building; in downtown St. Louis at the Thomas F. Eagleton U.S. Courthouse and in South St. Louis.NEW NORTH COUNTY OFFICE LOCATIONCongressman Wm. Lacy ClaySt. Louis County OfficeFirst Bank Building1281 Graham Rd, Suite 202Florissant, MO 63031(314) 383-5240 office(314) 383-8020 FAXOpen Monday – Friday, 9AM – 5PM
02.06.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 6, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Calls for Hearing on Export-Import BankSays Reauthorization is vital to growing U.S. economy, generating jobsWASHINGTON, D.C.– In the face of a Republican agenda that seeks to erode consumer protection and undermine Wall Street reform, Democratic members of the Financial Services Committee have called for a renewed focus on a legislative goal that is proven to preserve and create U.S. jobs by helping American businesses compete internationally for opportunities to export goods and services.In a letter to Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and subcommittee Chair John Campbell (R-CA), Democratic members of the Committee have called for a hearing to examine the issues surrounding the reauthorization of the U.S. Export-Import Bank, a financially self-sustaining agency that has helped maintain or create 1.2 million U.S. jobs over the past five years.Led by Representatives William Lacy Clay (D-MO), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Denny Heck (D-WA) and Maxine Waters (D-CA), the letter touts the Bank’s importance in leveling the playing field for U.S. businesses that compete in the global economy. It also underscores the Export-Import Bank’s profitability, sustaining itself while returning billions to the Treasury. Rep. Waters is the top Democrat on the Committee and Rep. Clay is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade.“The reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank is vital to growing our economy, generating good jobs for American workers, and expanding business opportunities for our best companies,” Said Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay.“I urge the Chairman to schedule a hearing on its reauthorization at the earliest possible opportunity.”“The bottom line is that the Export-Import Bank supports American jobs. I urge my Republican colleagues to act swiftly to reauthorize this proven jobs engine,” said Rep. Gwen Moore.Unless Congress Acts, the charter of the Export-Import Bank will expire on September 30, 2014.“Reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank will reduce the deficit and create good-paying jobs right here in America,” Rep. Denny Heck said. “Last year the Ex-Im Bank helped American businesses in all 50 states sell American-made products to overseas buyers. It is urgent that Congress reaches a bipartisan reauthorization agreement so U.S. companies can continue competing in the global marketplace.”The lawmakers also point out that failing to reauthorize the Bank’s charter will hurt the competitiveness of U.S. businesses in the global marketplace in favor of foreign firms.Rep. Waters said,“The Export-Import Bank sustains hundreds of thousands of jobs and levels the playing field so that American businesses, large and small, can compete successfully in global markets. Its reauthorization should be quick and without controversy.”The letter was delivered to Chairman Hensarling today. Full text of the letter is below. === February 6, 2014The Honorable Jeb HensarlingChairmanHouse Financial Services Committee The Honorable John CampbellChairmanHouse Financial Services Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade Re: Hearing Request to Reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States Dear Chairmen Hensarling and Campbell: As you plan the Committee’s agenda for the second session of the 113th Congress, we write to respectfully request that the Committee direct immediate attention to the important business of reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Specifically, we request that you schedule a hearing to begin examining the issues surrounding the reauthorization of the Bank. As you know, the current Export-Import Bank charter will expire September 30, 2014. The Export-Import Bank supports and creates jobs for American workers by leveling the playing field for U.S.-based firms that compete in global markets for foreign business and customers. The Export-Import Bank supports U.S. exports and jobs while also returning billions of dollars in profits to the Treasury. As you may recall, the Committee adopted, without objection, an amendment to its Oversight Plan in February 2013 recognizing that the Export-Import Bank is a self-sustaining agency mandated to contribute to the employment of U.S. workers through financing U.S.-manufactured goods and services. The failure to reauthorize the Bank’s charter in a timely manner would jeopardize the ability of U.S. firms to compete with their global competitors and would tip the playing field in favor of foreign firms. Over the past five years, the Bank has helped sustain or create 1.2 million jobs in the United States. With millions of American’s still unemployed, the role of the Export-Import Bank has become even more critical to the ability of United States businesses to increase United States exports. We urge the Committee to begin taking the steps necessary to ensure a timely Export-Import Bank reauthorization. U.S. businesses that rely on the various export credit services that the Bank provides need certainty in the reauthorization process for long-term business planning purposes. We believe that committee action on reauthorization serves the best interest of the United States and the workers whose jobs the Export-Import Bank supports in all of our districts. We believe Congress can reach a bipartisan reauthorization agreement, as we have consistently done in the past that meets the overall objective of supporting U.S. exports and jobs. We are eager to begin this process and are prepared to assist however we can in this important work. We look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience. Sincerely,Maxine Waters Wm. Lacy ClayGwen MooreDenny HeckPatrick MurphyGregory MeeksGary PetersCarolyn McCarthyMichael CapuanoJohn DelaneyKyrsten SinemaJohn CarneyEd G. PerlmutterKeith EllisonJoyce BeattyTerri SewellBill FosterAl GreenBrad ShermanCarolyn MaloneyJames HimesRubén HinojosaDaniel KildeeDavid ScottEmanuel Cleaver Stephen Lynch###
02.05.2014	Clay, House Democrats Have Upbeat Meeting With President ObamaWashington, D.C. – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri released the following statement following House Democrats’ meeting at the White House with President Obama:WASHINGTON, DC -“Yesterday, I had the privilege of sitting down with President Obama for a productive discussion along with my House Democratic colleagues about our urgent agenda for the rest of 2014. I thanked the President and his team for selecting St. Louis as one of seven cities to benefit from the expanded Strong Cities, Strong Communities Initiative that will support my efforts to spur major redevelopment projects in some of St. Louis’ most distressed neighborhoods. Senior Advisor to the President Valerie Jarrett told me that St. Louis was the perfect choice for the SC2 program and we are anxious to welcome the White House team to our city. I am committed to building an economy that works for everyone by raising the minimum wage and renewing the lifeline of emergency unemployment insurance without further delay. And we will unleash the potential of America’s women, because we know that when women succeed, America succeeds. We will continue to strengthen the middle class with access to the affordable, quality health coverage available under the Affordable Care Act, and act to pass comprehensive immigration reform that reflects the shared strength of our nation’s growing diversity.Working together, we can deliver on the full promise of America and forge a brighter, more prosperous future for generations to come.”-30
01.29.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 28, 2014 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS NOTE: The following is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri: "Tonight, President Obama laid out a bold, optimistic agenda that challenged us to reward hard work, renew economic security for middle-class families and keep faith with our senior citizens.I strongly support the President’s call to raise the minimum wage; pass comprehensive immigration reform; renew the Voting Rights Act; continue expanding access to affordable healthcare for all, and eliminate barriers to higher education that are keeping millions from achieving their dreams.He also laid out a clear path that would continue our nation’s remarkable progress towards achieving energy independence and creating millions of new jobs in the emerging 21st Century green economy. I am hopeful that Congress can build on recent bipartisan agreements to move this progressive agenda forward to benefit all Americans.” -30
01.13.2014	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, January 13, 2014 Clay Demands Answers on Target Data BreachDemocrats on House Financial Services Committee Seek Congressional Inquiry WASHINGTON, D.C.– In the wake of the massive Target data breach that compromised more than 40 million credit and debit card accounts as well as exposing the personally identifiable information of as many as 110 million Americans, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, the Ranking Member on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Domestic & International Monetary Policy, joined with 16 fellow Democrats to demand a congressional inquiry into the critical failure to protect the personal financial information of millions of Americans.“This critical failure to protect the financial and personal information of millions of Americans deserves prompt congressional action to determine what we can do to better protect consumers,” said the Congressman.In a letter to Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Mr. Clay and his Democratic colleagues asked for a full Committee hearing to explore the recent data breach, review current law designed to protect consumers and determine what can be done to ensure the future security of consumers’ card information.The letter cited the Committee’s oversight plan for the 113th Congress, which espoused the need to continue evaluating the best way to protect security and confidentiality of consumer financial information.“It is incumbent upon our Committee to explore whether industry data protection standards are appropriate, and examine whether heightened regulatory standards are needed to more effectively protect consumers,” the Democrats wrote. “A hearing would provide members the opportunity to hear from regulators and the industry to learn what steps merchants, financial institutions, payment processers, card networks and others should take to reduce vulnerabilities in the payment system, and strengthen measures that protect consumers from fraud.”Industry analysts have said that the Target data beach is among the largest recorded financial data security breaches in history.Full text of the letter is below.=====January 10, 2014The Honorable Jeb HensarlingChairmanCommittee on Financial ServicesU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Hensarling:The Target Corporation recently acknowledged that from November 27 to December 15, 2013, hackers stole credit and debit card information including card numbers, expirations dates and security codes for 40 million accounts, and other personally identifiable information for as many as 70 million customers. Accordingly, we respectfully request that you convene a full Financial Services Committee hearing to review the recent data breach including the adequacy of current consumer financial data security protection laws, and what Congress and industry stakeholders can proactively do to ensure the future security of consumers’ card information.We note that the Committee’s oversight plan for the 113th Congress states that “building on the Committee’s long-standing role in developing laws governing the handling of sensitive personal financial information about consumers including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACT Act), the Committee will continue to evaluate best practices for protecting the security and confidentiality of such information from any loss, unauthorized access, or misuse.”The Target breach—which industry analysts say is among the largest recorded financial data security breaches—raises important questions about what merchants who suspect a data breach has occurred must disclose, when they must disclose it, and who has the right to be notified. Quick notification of a breach increases the likelihood that consumers can take measures to protect themselves from fraudulent activity and is similarly critical to successfully reducing the ultimate fraud losses that financial institutions incur.It is incumbent upon our Committee to explore whether industry data protection standards are appropriate, and examine whether heightened regulatory standards are needed to more effectively protect consumers. A hearing would provide members the opportunity to hear from regulators and the industry to learn what steps merchants, financial institutions, payment processers, card networks and others should take to reduce vulnerabilities in the payment system, and strengthen measures that protect consumers from fraud. Consumers deserve reasonable assurances that the use of their credit or debit card will not jeopardize their financial and other personally identifiable information. This is increasingly important as companies continue to amass vast amounts of consumers’ sensitive personal information. We appreciate your attention to this request. Sincerely, Maxine Waters (CA), Ranking MemberCarolyn Maloney (NY)Daniel T. Kildee (MI)Wm. Lacy Clay (MO)Terri A. Sewell (AL)James A. Himes (CT)Gary C. Peters (MI)Gwen Moore (WI)Denny Heck (WA)Michael E. Capuano (MA)Kyrsten Sinema (AZ)Emanuel Cleaver (MO)Ed Perlmutter (CO)David Scott (GA)Bill Foster (IL)Stephen F. Lynch (MA)Gregory W. Meeks (NY)
12.06.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Friday, December 6, 2013 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDINGTHE DEATH OF FORMER SOUTH AFRICAN PRESIDENT NELSON MANDELA The following is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri:"Nelson Mandela was not only the father of a free South Africa, he was a giant for justice who inspired millions around the world with his courage, dedication and unyielding dignity.His great moral force defeated the evils of Apartheid and led his nation to a peaceful transition to majority rule.Mandela's life was a shining example of leaving the world a better place than what he was born into.I was honored to work for his release and the abolishing of the horrible system of Apartheid during my years in the Missouri State legislature.My thoughts and prayers are with Madiba's family and the people of South Africa.May his memory and legacy of courage continue to inspire generations to come."-end-
11.22.2013	Congressman Clay Remembers JFKWASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri marking the 50th anniversary of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy====================================================================================="Friday, November 22, 1963 was just a regular day. Like most mornings, my sisters and I had jumped on the Delmar streetcar which took us to the St. Francis Xavier primary school in midtown.I was a second grader who loved school and was just getting excited about the bigger world around me.About 1pm, our principal, Sister John the Baptist, came on the PA system to tell us the terrible news...the President was dead, struck down by an assassin.School immediately dismissed, and my sisters and I took the streetcar home where my Mom was waiting.We were glued to the television and it was as if the whole world had stopped.Later that day, my Dad, former Congressman Bill Clay, came home. Back in 1963, he was an Alderman and he had recently been released from jail after leading the landmark Jefferson Bank protests which struck down segregation in St. Louis.At dinner that night, my Dad got up and excused himself from the table. That was the first time that I ever saw him cry.Fifty years have passed since that horrible trauma which changed every American who is old enough to remember it. I could not know then, what I know now. My Dad's tears were not just for the death of one good man, he cried for what we lost as a nation.President Kennedy inspired an entire generation of Americans to believe that public service was honorable and essential. I still carry those values with me every day.His death changed our country, altered the course of the 20th century and changed our world.But his sacrifice also planted the seeds that propelled President Lyndon Johnson to pass the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act and much more.So while we remember all that we lost on that terrible day in Dallas, let us also give thanks for President Kennedy's incredible vision, his courage, his unbounded optimism and his belief that freedom and justice are worth fighting for.They still are." -30-
10.31.2013	STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI ON THE DEATH OF FORMER CONGRESSMAN IKE SKELTON (D) MISSOURIThe following is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay in reaction to the death of his long-time friend and colleague, former Congressman Ike Skelton (D) Missouri.FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:Monday, October 28, 2013Media Contact:Steven Engelhardt (314) 504-4029-----"Tonight, our nation has lost a remarkable public servant, our state has lost a courageous advocate and I have lost a dear friend.Congressman Ike Skelton was my mentor and among my closest colleagues when I first came to the U.S. House.For 34-years, Ike Skelton was a champion for his district, the State of Missouri and for every brave American who wore the uniform of this country.My family and I send our deepest sympathies to his wife Patty and his wonderful family.I am a better Member of Congress today because I served with Ike Skelton.His legacy of service and devotion to his constituents and our Armed Forces will never be forgotten."# # #
10.17.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Wednesday, October 16, 2013STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PASSAGE OF CONTINUING RESOLUTION TO REOPEN THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND EXTEND THE DEBT CEILING TO PROTECT THE FULL FAITH AND CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATESWASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to congressional action to reopen the federal government and extend the debt ceiling of the United States.===“After two weeks of a senseless Republican government shutdown that deprived the American people of vital services, inflicted real hardship on 800,000 federal employees, and according to Standard & Poor’s, resulted in a net loss of $24 billion to the U.S. economy…extortion has failed.The House Republican leadership ought to be ashamed of what they allowed to happen. The GOP Tea Party has accomplished nothing, they have cost the taxpayers billions, and they have weakened this country.Extortion is not an acceptable form of government in a great nation. The American people deserve better.”=-30-
10.11.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Friday, October 11, 2013 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING GOVERNOR JAY NIXON’S APPOINTMENT OF MAVIS T. THOMPSON AS ST. LOUIS CITY LICENCE COLLECTOR WASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to Governor Jay Nixon’s appointment of noted attorney and former Circuit Clerk for the 22nd Judicial Court, the Honorable Mavis T. Thompson, as the License Collector for the City of St. Louis.====“Governor Nixon’s appointment of Mavis T. Thompson as St. Louis City License Collector is an excellent choice.Mavis Thompson is a well-regarded attorney, a trusted community leader, and a dedicated public servant who will serve the citizens of the City of St. Louis with efficiency and integrity.I congratulate Ms. Thompson on this appointment, and I look forward to working with her” -30-
10.07.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY, 10.7.13 Clay, Nixon, Slay, MODOT Dedicate Congressman William L. Clay, Sr. BridgePoplar Street Bridge Dedicated to Honor Legendary Civil Rights Leader and Distinguished Member of Congress, Former Congressman Bill ClayST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined Missouri Governor Jay Nixon and St. Louis Mayor Francis G. Slay to dedicate the Poplar Street Bridge as the Congressman William L. Clay, Sr. Bridge. The key span, which carries three interstate highways across the Mississippi Rivers at downtown St. Louis, serves over 100,000 vehicles each day.In his remarks at the dedication ceremony honoring his father, former Congressman Bill Clay, Congressman Lacy Clay said, “If you think about it, a bridge is a perfect vehicle to bear my father’s name. Bridges are made of steel…and over his more than 40 years of public service, no other elected official showed as much strength as Bill Clay. Bridges also connect people to opportunities. And my father has dedicated his life to fighting for equal opportunities; for African Americans, women, the disabled and other Americans who had been left out of the economic life of this country. We are a better city and a stronger nation because of Congressman Bill Clay. I am proud to stand on his shoulders. I am thankful to have him as my mentor and best friend. And I am truly blessed, and so proud, to be his son.”Legislation to name the bridge in honor of the former Congressman was sponsored in the Missouri state legislature by State Representative Penny Hubbard (D) St. Louis. Former Congressman Bill Clay was the first African American elected to Congress from his home state. Bill Clay was also one of the original founders of the Congressional Black Caucus. During his 32 years of service, he sponsored and helped passed more than 200 pieces of legislation, including the landmark Family & Medical Leave Act. Prior to his service in Washington, former Congressman Bill Clay was a member of the St. Louis Board of Aldermen. He first gained wide notoriety in 1963, when he led the historic Jefferson Bank protests. That legendary movement shattered segregation in St. Louis. -30-
10.01.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday, October 1, 2013 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING REPUBLICAN GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN WASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to House Republican action to shut down certain operations of the federal government in order to deprive 30 million uninsured Americans of healthcare coverage, which is now available via Obamacare open enrollment at www.healthcare.gov====“Last night...House Republicans proved that they hate the President more than they love their country. The Republican government shutdown is outrageous. Remember, this was their choice, not ours. Speaker John Boehner caved into the anarchists in his own caucus who have shut down the government in an effort to kill the Affordable Care Act. But, that’s not going to happen. Open enrollment began today, on schedule, at www.healthcare.gov or www.covermissouri.org House Republicans allowed their Tea Party tantrum to shut down the federal government and bring the United States closer to defaulting on our debt. That’s selfish, irresponsible and wrong. And it proves that they have learned absolutely nothing from the last time they did this to the country.” = -30-
09.25.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Wednesday, September 25, 2013STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S NOMINATION OF JENNIFER TIDWELL TO SERVE AS REGION VII DIRECTOR OF THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENTWASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to President Obama’s nomination of fellow Missourian Jennifer Tidwell to serve as the Region VII Director of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.“I want to personally thank President Obama for nominating Ms. Jennifer Tidwell, a talented Missourian, to serve as the Region VII Director of the U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development.Jennifer has established a distinguished record of public service as the Deputy Director of the Missouri Housing Development Commission. Her expertise in affordable housing, economic development, strategic tax credits and helping urban entrepreneurs makes her uniquely qualified for this important post. I congratulate Jennifer, and I look forward to working closely with her.I also want to thank my colleagues Senator McCaskill and Congressman Cleaver for supporting this very worthy nominee.” -30-
09.20.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Friday, September 20, 2013 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PASSAGE OF HOUSE REPUBLICAN CONTINUING RESOLUTION WASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to today’s passage of a highly partisan House Republican Continuing Resolution.“Today, House Republicans applauded their passage of a Tea Party inspired Continuing Resolution that lays the path for a government shutdown, makes defaulting on our national debt more likely, and puts insurance companies back in charge of our healthcare. So the question I would ask them is just this, what exactly were they celebrating…other than their own irresponsibility?”
09.11.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Wednesday, September 11, 2013 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ADDRESS TO THE NATION ON SYRIA WASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to President Obama’s address to the nation regarding the use of chemical weapons in Syria.===="We should exhaust every diplomatic effort to resolve this crisis.While I remain undecided regarding any future congressional authorization to use force, this much is certain;President Obama’s strong leadership has opened the door to a potential diplomatic achievement that could remove the threat of Syria’s chemical weapons without firing a shot.That would be a remarkable outcome that we must make every effort to achieve.” -30-
09.11.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Wednesday, September 11, 2013 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ADDRESS TO THE NATION ON SYRIA WASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to President Obama’s address to the nation regarding the use of chemical weapons in Syria.===="We should exhaust every diplomatic effort to resolve this crisis.While I remain undecided regarding any future congressional authorization to use force, this much is certain;President Obama’s strong leadership has opened the door to a potential diplomatic achievement that could remove the threat of Syria’s chemical weapons without firing a shot.That would be a remarkable outcome that we must make every effort to achieve.” -30-
08.12.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, August 12, 2013STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING RACIALLY INTOLERANTAND INSULTING INCIDENT DIRECTED AT PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA AT THE MISSOURI STATE FAIR ST. LOUIS, MO – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to the racially intolerant and insulting incident directed at President Obama this past Saturday night at the Missouri State Fair, in Sedalia, MO.“I am amazed that in 2013, such hatred, intolerance and disrespect towards the President of the United States could take place at the Missouri State Fair.Our fair is supposed to showcase the best of Missouri, instead, it showed an ugly face of intolerance and ignorance to the world.”
07.29.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY, 7.29.13Clay Announces $30 Million EPA Superfund Cleanupat former Carter Carburetor SiteWork to begin in August to remove highly contaminated eyesore,transform dangerous site into new job opportunitiesST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined with officials from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Mayor Francis G. Slay to announce that the long-anticipated superfund cleanup settlement of the highly-contaminated former Carter Carburetor site in North St. Louis has been approved and work will begin next month on the $30 million project. “Because we stood together to demand environmental justice, we have achieved a great victory for this resilient and historic neighborhood,” said the Congressman. “We will transform a Brownfield into a potential green field for job creation. I want to thank the neighborhood associations and block units for your courage, your faith and your persistence as we fought to finally get this done.”The Congressman also personally thanked President Obama for his personal support of the project. He said, “Five years ago, I sat down with then President-elect Obama, and I told him about this very dangerous situation in the middle of a historic neighborhood that was just across the street from a Boys & Girls Club that serves thousands of young people. I told him about the asbestos, the heavy metals, the PCBs, and the TCEs. I told him about the long-time residents of this neighborhood who have lived in fear of this awful eyesore for almost thirty years. President Obama understood immediately, because he had seen it all before…on the south side of Chicago. What happened here at Carter Carburetor is really just a symptom of a much larger problem that we see all over this country. Far too often, older, urban neighborhoods like this one…with mostly minority populations, are turned into toxic dumping grounds. That kind of environmental racism is shameful. This neighborhood deserves better, these children deserve better, and starting today…you are going to get it.”“A new day has dawned for North St. Louis,” EPA Regional Administrator Karl Brooks said. “Today marks the beginning of the end for a longtime hazard and community eyesore, and an exciting milestone for EPA, elected officials and community members who have worked together to clean up and revitalize an historic part of this great city.”The Carter Carburetor Site, a 10-acre complex of buildings and structures covering parts of two city blocks at 2800 to 2840 North Spring Avenue, is a former gasoline and diesel carburetor manufacturing plant that operated from 1915 until 1984. Investigations have found unacceptable levels of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), trichloroethylene (TCE), and asbestos at the site.The full cleanup of the site is projected to take up to four years to complete. Initial work to clear debris from buildings is expected to begin in August. Other steps of the cleanup will include building preparation, asbestos abatement, building demolition, and soil cleanup or removal.To learn more about the EPA Carter Carburetor site Superfund cleanup, please click here.
07.12.2013	STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING HOUSE REPUBLICAN FARM BILL THATSTRIPS AWAY SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMWASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to today’s action by Republicans in the U.S. House to pass H.R. 2642, a partisan act that strips away supplemental nutrition assistance from the traditional five-year Farm Bill.“Today, House Republicans voted to increase hunger in America.For four decades, supplemental nutrition has been an integral part of the Farm Bill.Hunger and food insecurity is a real danger for many families who are still struggling to make ends meet. But today, House Republicans told 47 million Americans that they just didn’t matter. It is outrageous that Republicans have the nerve to tell hungry children, the rural poor, seniors and the disabled that while this country can afford to preserve subsidies for corporate farms, it can’t afford to help the most vulnerable put food on the table."
06.27.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Wednesday, June 26, 2013 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING U.S. SUPREME COURT DECISIONS STRIKING DOWN FEDERAL DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT AND INVALIDATING PROPOSITION 8 IN CALIFORNIA WASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement issued by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to today’s rulings by the U.S. Supreme Court regarding DOMA and California’s Proposition 8.-------“I applaud today’s decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court striking down DOMA and invalidating Prop 8 in California. The high court has affirmed that equal protection under the law applies to every American. This is a historic turning point that advances full equality for all.” -30-
06.25.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY, 6.25.13 U.S. House Passes “Stan Musial Veterans Memorial Bridge” BillClay Praises Bipartisan Compromise, Cites Musial’s Brilliance on the Field, Recalls His Leadership off the Field for Justice Washington, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised the impressive display of bipartisan support for HR. 2383, compromise legislation that he cosponsored to designate the new I-70 bridge over the Mississippi River as the “Stan Musial Veterans Memorial Bridge,” The bill was approved today in the U.S. House by a vote of 395-2.In his remarks on the House floor, Mr. Clay said, “As the U.S. Representative who has the honor of representing the St. Louis Cardinals, it is a special privilege for me to speak about Stan Musial from the perspective of a Member of Congress, and also from the memory of a young boy at old Sportsmen’s Park with my Dad, former Congressman Bill Clay, as we watched Stan play near the end of his remarkable career. Stan Musial was simply one of the greatest baseball players of all time. In 22 seasons with the St. Louis Cardinals, he helped them win three world championships. He won 7 national league batting titles, three most valuable player awards, and at the time of his retirement in 1963…Stan Musial held 17 individual major league baseball records.”The Congressman also noted Musial’s courage in opposition to discrimination and racial intolerance. He added, “In his own quiet way,Stan Musial was also on the vanguard of fighting discrimination and changing America. When some white players on the St. Louis Cardinals threatened to boycott the game if they were forced to play with blacks, Musial stood tall for justice and stopped the boycott before it started. When Stan died, stories from those difficult days were told with great reverence and respect.Upon hearing of his death, Hall of Famer Willie Mays recalled a story from an all-star game in the 1950’s. Before the game…in one corner of the national league clubhouse… sat Mays, Hank Aaron, Ernie Banks and Frank Robinson…playing cards all by themselves.The white ballplayers on the national league roster either ignored them or were openly hostile.So Stan Musial, who by then was one of the biggest stars in the game…Simply walked over, sat down, and said…”Deal me in”.That was his way of saying, fellas, you belong here, It’s gonna get better, and I’m glad to have you on my team.When asked about his friend’s passing, the great Hank Aaron…baseball’s legitimate all-time home run king, and someone who faced much hateful racism himself said this of Stan:“I not only liked Stan Musial, I wanted to be like Stan Musial.”Congressman Clay also thanked his colleagues Representatives Davis, Enyart, Wagner, Shimkus and Luetkemeyer for their hard work on this legislation. The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. -30-
06.11.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY, 6.11.13Thousands of Job Seekers Flock to Clay’s 8th Annual Career FairOver 100 Top Employers Greet Huge, Hopeful CrowdsEven before he opened the doors to his 8th annual Career Fair, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, and his special guest, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D) California, greeted a line of eager job seekers that stretched for several blocks outside of the Emerson Performance Center at historic Harris-Stowe State University in midtown St. Louis. By the end of the event, more than 5,000 guests had come through the doors.“The incredible community response exceeded my greatest hopes for this year’s Career Fair,”said the Congressman. “I was especially pleased to see the great attitudes of our job seekers who were ready to make the most of this wonderful opportunity. As the economy continues to recover, unemployment and underemployment remains a huge issue in the First Congressional District, and my Career Fair directly addresses that urgent need.”Job seekers were able to meet with over 100 top St. Louis employers, including:the Boeing Company; Ameren; BJC Healthcare Systems; Alberici Construction: World Wide Technology; Centene; Best Buy; Clear Channel Communications; CBS Radio Group; Emmis Communications; the U.S. Marshal Service; the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Edward Jones, St. Louis Community Credit Union, and many other fine firms.For the sixth consecutive year, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management joined the Career Fair lineup by providing a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for, thousands of federal jobs, worldwide. Congressman Clay’s annual Career Fair was presented with the invaluable help and support of Harris-Stowe State University, and all of our outstanding vendor partners. We thank them for their participation and we look forward to Career Fair ‘2014. -30-
05.23.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 5.23.13MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT(314) 504-4029 Clay Presents 2013 Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition AwardsYoung Artists Congressional Competition Selects Winner for Capitol Honors ST. LOUIS - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri presented Madeline Green, of Parkway North High School, with the 2013 First Congressional District Artistic Discover First Place honors. The ceremony was held at Portfolio Gallery in historic Grand Center. Ms. Green’s colorful acrylic painting on canvass, entitled “Night Out” will be on display at the U.S. Capitol Complex. She will travel to Washington, DC, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to unveil her winning entry.In his remarks to the overflow crowd of young artists, parents and teachers, Congressman Clay said,“Tonight, we are celebrating our twelfth year of recognizing outstanding young artistic talent. As you can see from the artwork on display here, the level of talent is truly impressive. Your work is inspiring, and I encourage all of you to continue to develop your creative talents.”The Artistic Discovery Congressional Competition is in its 28th year, nationally. This is the twelfth year that Congressman Clay has conducted the competition in Missouri’s First Congressional District. Fifty young artists from area high schools displayed their entries at a special exhibition at Portfolio Gallery in Grand Center. Congratulations to all the young artists. Here are the results: 1st place - “Night Out” (acrylic on canvass by Madeline Green, Parkway North H.S.) 2nd place - “Hello World” (photograph by Leah Schaffer, Clayton H.S.) 3rd place tie - “Sphere” (oil on canvas by Devin Upchurch, McCluer H.S.) 3rd place tie – “A‘more(watercolor on canvass by Moni Buford, Parkway North H.S.)
05.21.2013	Clay’s 8th Annual Career Fair Will Feature Over 100 Top EmployersThousands of Eager Job Seekers Expected to Attend St. Louis’ Biggest Free Jobs Event Monday, June 10th, Harris-Stowe State University ST.LOUIS- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will present his 8th Annual First District Career Fair on Monday, June 10th from 9:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m. at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center, located at 3026 Laclede Avenue. This unique jobs event will feature over 100 of the St. Louis area’s top employers, and it’s absolutely free. “My top priority continues to be putting my constituents back to work and connecting them with job opportunities that they could not take advantage of on their own.” said the Congressman. ”Our career fair is St. Louis’ biggest and best jobs event. Once again, we will feature over 100 companies from all sectors of the local economy, along with great job opportunities with federal, state and local government agencies.” The Congressman added, “Last year, over 5,000 job seekers attended, seeking to fill over 1,000 job openings. I would advise guests to arrive early, dress for success and have your resumes ready.” For those interested in public service, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for thousands of federal jobs, worldwide.Among the top St. Louis employers who will be on hand are: the Boeing Company; Express Scripts; BJC Healthcare Systems; World Wide Technology; Centene Corporation; Wells Fargo Advisors; Enterprise Holdings; GKN Aerospace; CVS Pharmacy; Best Buy; Office Depot; multiple hotel and casino positions; the U.S. Postal Service and many state and federal agencies. For more information, please call (314) 367-1970, or go to www.lacyclay.house.gov
05.15.2013	Courtesy of The Washington Post CompanyRepublicans lead a witch hunt on BenghaziBy Eugene Robinson, opinionMay 9, 2013 The Washington PostThose who are trying to make the Benghazi tragedy into a scandal for the Obama administration really ought to decide what story line they want to sell.Actually, by “those” I mean Republicans, and by “the Obama administration” I mean Hillary Clinton. The only coherent purpose I can discern in all of this is to sully Clinton’s record as secretary of state in case she runs for president in 2016. That’s not a particularly noble way to use the deaths of four American public servants, but at least it’s understandable. Attempts to concoct some kind of sinister Whitewater-style conspiracy, however, don’t even begin to make sense.The hearing convened Wednesday by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) produced a riveting narrative of the chaotic events in Libya last September. But what was the supposedly unforgivable crime?Did Clinton’s State Department fail to provide adequate security for the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi? In retrospect, obviously so. But the three diplomats who testified at the hearing gave no evidence that this failure sprang from anything other than the need to use limited resources as efficiently as possible. House Republicans who voted to cut funding for State Department security should understand that their philosophy — small government is always better — has consequences. Bureaucrats have to make judgment calls. Sometimes they will be wrong.Is the scandal supposed to be that a four-man Special Forces team was not sent from Tripoli to help defend the Benghazi compound? This is a decision that clearly still haunts and enrages Gregory Hicks, the former deputy chief of mission in Libya, who sat helplessly in the capital while Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three other Americans were being killed at the consulate 650 miles away. But the decision not to dispatch troops was made by the military chain of command, not by Clinton or anyone who reported to her. Superior officers decided this team was needed to help evacuate the embassy in Tripoli, which was seen as a potential target for a Benghazi-style attack. The Pentagon has concluded that the team, in any event, could not have arrived in Benghazi in time to make a difference. Hicks testified that he disagrees. It is difficult not to feel his pain. But it is also difficult, frankly, to believe that he knows more about deploying troops than do the professionals.Well, then, maybe the transgression is that administration officials, for some unfathomable reason, willfully lied when they said the attack was in reaction to an anti-Islam video produced in the United States and disseminated on the Internet. The problem is that there were, in fact, tumultuous anti-American demonstrations taking place in cities throughout the Muslim world because of the video. President Obama labeled the Benghazi assault an act of terror almost immediately — as Mitt Romney learned in the second presidential debate — but it was hard to imagine that the attack was completely unrelated to what was happening in Cairo, Tunis, Khartoum and Jakarta.The Obama administration was eager to make clear, as George W. Bush tried to do many times, that the United States is not fighting a war against Islam. The administration was slow to recognize that the uproar over the video, at most, provided the opportune moment for a well-planned, highly organized terrorist attack involving heavy weapons. This was an error, but it makes no sense as a deliberate attempt to deceive. What would be the motive? To cover up the facts and maximize the administration’s embarrassment once the truth finally came out?Maybe that’s it: a cover-up. Perhaps the administration conspired to hide Clinton’s failure to protect our diplomats overseas. But she commissioned an independent report by former ambassador Thomas Pickering that said — well, I’ll just quote Rep. Mike Rogers (R-Mich.), chairman of the House intelligence committee: “The Pickering Report appears to make clear what we already knew: that there was strategic warning from the intelligence community of a dangerous security environment in Benghazi and that our diplomats were failed by the bureaucracy at the State Department.”Some cover-up.Was Hicks “demoted” for blowing the whistle on Benghazi, as he testified? He asked to come home, understandably, and the department parked him in a desk job — with the same pay and rank — until something more to his liking comes open. Has he been muzzled? Hardly, as evidenced by his testimony Wednesday.I can only hope that Issa’s witch hunt leads to better security for our brave diplomats. Even the cheapest political stunt can have a silver lining.© The Washington Post Company
04.24.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 24, 2013 MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Treasury Dept. and Congressman Clay Announce $135 Million in New Market Tax Credits to Create Jobs, Provide Small Business Capital and Strengthen Neighborhoods in St. Louis RegionSt. Louis Development Corporation, US Bank, Enterprise Bank Are Winners in National Competition-Washington, DC – As part of a $3.5 billion national investment to grow jobs and revive struggling neighborhoods, the U.S. Treasury Department and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, announced today that three St. Louis financial & development entities are among 85 recipients nation-wide who have been selected to receive New Market Tax Credit funding. “This is tremendous news for the entire St. Louis region, said the Congressman, who is a senior Member of the U.S. House Financial Services Committee. “The New Market Tax credits are a powerful tool to helpolder urban communities like ours. These federal tax credits will help developers and financial entities who are working to build up economically distressed neighborhoods by encouraging private sector investment that creates jobs. New Market Tax Credits provide gap funding to help finance difficult projects in parts of our region that have not seen new investment in decades. I want to thank President Obama and Secretary Lew for being so responsive to my efforts to win this funding for the St. Louis region, and I want to congratulate US Bank, the St. Louis Development Corporation and Enterprise Bank.Congressman Clay is proud to announce these awardees for the New Market Tax Credit program in the St. Louis region:US Bank Community Development Entity, LLC: $65 millionUS Bank will use its New Market Tax Credit Allocation to provide below market equity and debt products to real estate projects and operating businesses that create quantifiable, meaningful and catalytic outcomes for low income communities. USCDE intends to offer equity, senior debt, and/or subordinated debt.Enterprise Bank (Enterprise Financial CDE, LLC): $40 millionEnterprise Financial CDE, LLC (EFCDE) will use its New Market Tax Credit Allocation for investments in operating businesses and targeted real estate investments in need of patient capital. EFCDE will only select highest impact businesses that can demonstrate the ability to transform low-income communities by providing quality jobs and goods and services to its residents. The CDE intends to offer equity, equity equivalent terms and conditions, senior debt, and/or subordinated debt.St. Louis Development Corporation: $30 million St. Louis Development Corporation will use its New Market Tax Credit allocation to provide flexible loans, and in some cases equity, to real estate and operating businesses. The STLCDE intends to offer equity, senior debt, and/or subordinated debt. -30-
03.28.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, THURSDAY 3.28.13 Clay Cosponsors Consumer Mortgage Choice ActBipartisan Amendment to Dodd-Frank Act Would Expand Access to Affordable Mortgage Credit While Safeguarding ConsumersWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Domestic & International Monetary Policy and Technology is cosponsoring H.R. 1077, the Consumer Mortgage Choice Act. The bipartisan bill would amend the historic Dodd-Frank Act to amend the definition of a Qualified Mortgage (QM). “Our bill will promote access to affordable mortgages for qualified borrowers without weakening the strong safeguards that were included in the original Dodd-Frank legislation,” said the Congressman. Currently, under Dodd-Frank, a qualified mortgage cannot have “points & fees” in excess of three percent of the total amount of the loan. H.R. 1077 makes certain clarifications as to how that threshold is calculated, in order to expand access to affordable mortgages for moderate income and underserved borrowers.H.R. 1077 would modify how “points & fess” are calculated. Specially, the bill would exclude from that (QM) calculation: (1)Fees paid to affiliated title companies(2)Salaries paid to loan originators(3)Insurance and taxes held in escrow(4)Loan level pricing adjustments(5)Lender-paid compensation to mortgage brokers These common sense changes will promote access to affordable mortgages for qualified buyers by ensuring that more properly underwritten loans meet the qualified mortgage standard. -30-
03.22.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, FRIDAY 3.22.13 Clay Praises $2.1 Million U.S. Labor Department Emergency Grant to Assist Former Hostess Brands WorkersFunds Will Provide Training & Reemployment Services for 399 Former Hostess Brands Employees in Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praisedthe U.S. Department of Labor’s announcement of a $2.1 million National Emergency Grant for training and re-employment services that will assist 399 workers throughout Missouri affected by the closure of Hostess Brands Inc. The emergency grant, in the amount of up to $2,183,749, will be channeled through the Missouri Division of Workforce Developmentwhich will coordinate help for former Hostess Brands workers across Missouri.“These skilled workers made great products that were enjoyed by millions of consumers,” said the Congressman. “They lost their jobs through no fault of their own, and this emergency grant will help them get the retraining they need to find new positions that can best take advantage of their considerable work skills.” U.S. Department of Labor National Emergency Grant details: · The grant will provide assistance to workers in conjunction with other benefits they will receive as a result of their eligibility for Trade Adjustment Assistance. This dual enrollment project will provide these TAA-certified workers with access to “wrap around” and supportive services that are not available through the TAA program. · Under this grant and the TAA program, affected workers will receive the training and support services they need to successfully find new jobs in their state. In February, DOL certified approximately 18,000 workers laid off in 48 states from 864 Hostess company locations as eligible to apply for TAA benefits. · Of the $2,183,749 announced today, $1,257,671 will be released initially. Additional funding, up to the amount approved, will be made available as the state demonstrates a continued need for assistance. · Most of the workers were employed at 39 work sites throughout Missouri; however, the grant also will serve Missouri residents employed at three locations in Kansas and one in Oklahoma. It may also assist workers leased to Hostess by other companies.
03.18.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, MONDAY 3.18.13Clay Announces $8.4 Million Renewal of HUD Continuum of Care Grants to Combat Homelessness in St. LouisTwelve Local Nonprofits Will Share Renewed Federal Funding to Combat Homelessness among Veterans, Abused Women & Children, HIV/Aids Patients, Mentally ChallengedWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded more than $8.4 million in grant renewals to twelve community-based nonprofit agencies to help combat homelessness in the St. Louis area. These competitive grants of unused Fiscal Year 2012 funds are being awarded by HUD under the 2012 Continuum of Care Program competition.“I am very pleased that even under these very difficult budgetary times, we were able to help secure $8.4 million in unused continuum of care funds to help these outstanding local nonprofit agencies provide transitional and permanent housing and supportive services to end the cycle of homelessness in St. Louis.,” said the Congressman.Over $1.54 billion in renewal funding is being awarded for competitive programs across the nation.St. Louis Non-Profit Agencies Continuum of Care Competitive Homeless Assistance Grant AwardsCovenant HouseTransitional Housing Program$266,430Resources Great Horizons$178,964Resources Horizon Club House$202,055Doorways Delmar$107,221Doorways Jumpstart$253,672Doorways Maryland$678,586Employment Connection Project Homecoming$187,511Humanitri$204,407Peter and Paul Benedict Joseph Labre Center$304,524Places for People Housing for the Future of Families$223,300Queen of Peace Center St. Philippine Home$610,984REN - SCL$1,640,107REN - SCQ$568,940REN - SCS$747,753REN - SCY$418,820Society of St.Vincent de Paul Project MORE$304,904Society of St.Vincent de Paul Project PLUS$425,599St. Patrick Center Project Protect Housing$460,603St. Patrick Center Rosati House$555,383YWCA Phyllis Wheatley THP$78,092Total Awards: $8,417,864
03.13.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, WEDNESDAY 3.13.13 Clay Introduces Bill to Amend Federal Advisory Committee ActChanges Would Strengthen Oversight, Increase Transparency and Prohibit Political InfluenceWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today introduced legislation to greatly enhance the transparency, independence and oversight of Federal Advisory Committees. H.R. 1104, the Federal Advisory Committee Act Amendments of 2013, will strengthen the Federal Advisory Committee Act…landmark legislation that was authored by Mr. Clay, Oversight & Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D) Maryland and Congressman Gerald Connolly (D) Virginia.“This bill opens up the Federal Advisory Committee selection and oversight process by providing greater transparency and ensuring real independence for appointees,” said Mr. Clay. “The act also imposes much tougher standards to ensure that committee members are insulated from political pressure to influence their recommendations. Finally, my act would require any FACA appointee selected by the President or an agency to provide expert advice to fully comply with all conflict of interest rules and federal ethics laws.”Mr. Clay’s bill would also close a loophole in the current FACA law by clarifying that FACA applies to subcommittees just as it does to committees. His bill states that an expert committee set up by a contractor is also subject to FACA if it is formed at the request of a federal agency or the President.H.R. 1104 also requires federal agencies to disclose information about advisory committees. Agencies must disclose the members of each committee, how the members were chosen and, in the case of a member who represents a stakeholder interest, the agency must disclose the interest being represented and the justification for appointing the member. Agencies must also publicly disclose when a committee member is granted a conflict of interest waiver or is recused from a meeting or a particular matter. -30-
02.25.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, MONDAY 2.25.13Clay Swears In 2013 Class of Missouri’s 1st District Congressional Youth CabinetBest & Brightest Area High School Students Will Advise Congress on Key National and Local Issues in Unique, Ongoing Civic EngagementST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has sworn in the 2013 Class of Missouri’s 1st District Congressional Youth Cabinet in the St. Louis County Council Chambers at the County Government Center. The Congressman and St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley welcomed 56 outstanding high school students from across the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County. The Congressional Youth Cabinetwill advise Congressman Clay and his staff on key national and local issues that impact young people. In his remarks to the exceptional group of young people who were all nominated by their high school principals, Congressman Clay said, “This is not just a nice honor or a passive appointment. This is an exercise in real youth civic engagement. The C.Y.C. will give me a direct link to the things that really matter to you and have an impact on your life. I need your voices, your energy, and your personal investment in this endeavor, to help me do my job better. You are going to discuss the most important issues facing our nation and our community.”Congressman Clay’s Congressional Youth Cabinet has already tackled issues like bullying, race relations and violence directed at women and children. It is an on-going process that will provide top students with a path to become advocates for the issues that matter to them.Members of the 2013 Missouri 1st DistrictCongressional Youth CabinetAnderson-Little, Jacob Central Visual and Performing Arts High School Arett, Emma Metro Academic and Classical High School Blackshear-Bryant, Jaryn Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High School Blair, Jorden Gateway STEM High School Blash, Daniel Washington University in St. Louis Blumer, Marlynna University City High School Brent, Keisha College Preparatory High School Buchanan, Dana Clyde C. Miller Career Academy Butler, Taylor Soldan International Studies High School Christian, Alauna Clyde C. Miller Career Academy Christian, Taylor Lutheran High School North Colbert, Alexis Carnahan High School of the Future Cox, Jacqueline Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High School Crockett, Destiny Clyde C. Miller Career Academy Cross, David Lutheran High School North Dobson, Matthew Carnahan High School of the Future Evans, Elizabeth Roosevelt High School Everett, Sydney Metro Academic and Classical High School Farmer, Benjamin North County Christian School Farmer, Molly Saint Louis University Fulton, Laura Pattonville High School Haneline, Kayla Hazelwood West High School Huntley, Damund Parkway Central High School Ingram, Victoria McCluer High School Johnson, Da'Vione Soldan International Studies Johnson, Malik University City High School Jones, Armani Normandy High School Jones, Miya Normandy High School Jordan, Landon Jennings High School Kennedy, Kelsey Lutheran High School North Khan, Maloree Ritenour High School Loehr, Jeremy Gateway STEM High School Loehr, Jordan Soldan International Studies High School Loomis III, James Ladue Horton Watkins High School Mackey, Chelsea Hazelwood East High School Mayenkar, Haley Parkway North High School Mitchell, Tiarra Sumner High School Mosley, Jordan Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High School Murphy, Rachel Pattonville High School Newberry, Anthony Roosevelt High School Pace, Ashley Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High School Payne, Calvin Hazelwood East High School PowellBey, Jessica College Preparatory High School Madison Purley, Royce Crossroads College Preparatory High School Reilly, Kevin Hazewood West High School Segers, Jonathan University of Missouri - St. Louis Smith, Cameron Clyde C. Miller Career Academy Smith, Jordan Ritenour High School Stepney, Raymond Sumner High School Stuart, Fran University City High School Wallace, Christian Normandy High School Wallace, Rashonda Central Visual and Performing Arts High School Watson Jr., Michael Hazelwood West High School Williams, Wendy Central Visual and Performing Arts High School Wilson, Aliyah Crossroads College Preparatory High School Wilson, Na'ana Jennings High School -30-
02.13.2013	MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS NOTE: The following, in its entirety,is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "The President offered an energetic plan to ensure a thriving middle class, strengthen our economy with a balanced approach to deficit reduction, and reward hard work and responsibility with a fair chance for every American to succeed.He also announced a much-needed new effort to ensure the voting rights of every American on every election day...an effort that I will enthusiastically support.I also welcome President Obama's decision to reduce American troop levels in Afghanistan by half and to speed the end of that long war.Finally, I applaud and strongly support the President's efforts to enact common sense measures that a clear majority of Americans support to reduce gun violence."
02.12.2013	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday, February 12, 2013 Clay Honors Montford Point Marines with Congressional Gold MedalThree World War II Vets Were Heroes on the Battlefield and at HomeST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri awarded one of our nation’s highest honors, the Congressional Gold Medal, to three World War II veterans for their bravery on the battlefield and their courage at home. “I am privileged today on behalf of a grateful nation to honor three brave veterans who fought two battles at the same time.” said Mr. Clay.“James Wilkes, Godfrey Wilson and Youlande Lathan are not only proud Marines…they are also Montford Point Marines. That means that while they were defending freedom and saving the world from fascism in World War II, these three brave Americans and their courageous comrades were also fighting a battle for equality and full citizenship for African Americans at home.”From 1942 – 1949, more than 20,000 black Marines passed through the segregated Montford Point Recruit Training Center. They faced the worst kind of racism and hardship, even while they wore the uniform of this country.The Congressman continued, “When they hit the beaches across the Pacific, it didn’t matter what color they were. They were just brave Americans…fighting for their country. Today, we honor these courageous men with the very same medal that many of their colleagues received at the U.S. Capitol. I am privileged to be able to pay this long overdue tribute to them.”The Montford Point Marines helped pave the way for future generations of African-Americans by proving themselves in training and in battle. They broke the color line and changed the U.S. Marine Corps and their country forever. -30-
12.03.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, December 3, 2012 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING RETIREMENT OF CONGRESSWOMAN JO ANN EMERSON (R) MISSOURI WASHINGTON, DC – The following is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri regarding Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson’s announcement that she will retire in February of 2013. “Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson has represented Southeast Missouri with honor and integrity. Jo Ann has always been a voice of calm, reason and common sense.She is a skilled legislator, a wonderful colleague, and a great friend of mine. Congresswoman Emerson represents the best of Missouri.I will miss her wise voice as Democrats and Republicans seek common ground to move the nation forward.” -30-
11.09.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012 Clay “Deeply Troubled” by Missouri AG Koster’s Decision to Appeal Release of George AllenCites Irrefutable Evidence that Allen is InnocentWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has sent an urgent letter to Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster expressing his astonishment regarding AG Koster’s decision to appeal the immediate release of Mr. George Allen, who was wrongly convicted of murder and rape, even after St. Louis Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce declined to re-file charges against him.In his letter to AG Koster, Congressman Clay said in-part:“I am deeply troubled by your decision to appeal Cole County Circuit Judge Daniel Green’s decision to void the convictions of George Allen. As you know, Mr. Allen is a mentally ill black man who was wrongfully convicted in 1982 and has spent the last thirty years incarcerated for crimes of which he is actually innocent. I am astonished by your decision to appeal and to ask for a stay of Mr. Allen’s release. There is overwhelming evidence of Mr. Allen’s actual innocence and that exculpatory evidence of actual innocence was suppressed at his trial, as well as a clearly false confession taken from a mentally disturbed person. There has been a long and thorough court review of the considerable and irrefutable evidence that Mr. Allen is innocent, including St. Louis Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce’s decision not to re-file charges against Mr. Allen. I agree with Judge Green’s decision that he should be released immediately. I ask you in the strongest possible terms to drop your appeal and allow this innocent man to return to his family after three long decades.I am also quite disturbed by the evidence that has emerged of serious misconduct on the part of the St. Louis Police Department. Police provided false testimony at Mr. Allen’s trial, hiding the fact that they found semen on the victim’s clothing which was not from the victim’s boyfriend (or her husband) and which could not have come from George Allen. Police also hid that an important witness at trial, whose testimony corroborated a detail in the confession, was actually uncertain about the memory to which she testified; police sent the witness to a hypnotist prior to trial. This is obviously exculpatory evidence that police should have turned over to the defense. Mr. Allen has suffered a grave injustice that must be remedied swiftly. This matter is of the utmost importance to the local community, the State of Missouri, and to our nation. I ask that you no longer stand in the way of justice being carried out for this innocent man, and allow George Allen to be returned to his family and his community immediately.” -30-
11.05.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, November 3, 2012 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING JUDGE DAN GREEN’S ORDER TO RELEASE MR. GEORGE ALLEN, WRONGLY CONVICTED OF MURDER AND RAPE IN 1983 ST. LOUIS, MO – The following is a first-person statement issued by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri in reaction to Judge Dan Green’s order to release Mr. George Allen, a constituent who was wrongly convicted of murder and rape in 1983. Congressman Clay has been a vocal advocate for Mr. Green’s release, along with Attorney Barry Scheck and the Innocence Project.----------"A year ago, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver and I urged Missouri Attorney General Koster to review the outrageous miscarriage of justice that sentenced George Allen to 95 years for a crime that he could not have committed.Judge Green’s order affirms our central argument that the scientific evidence excluded Mr. Allen, and the confession was not credible because of his severely diminished mental capacity.My thanks go out to Attorney Barry Scheck and the staff of the Innocence Project whose hard work has corrected another grave error in our justice system.I urge the Circuit Attorney to allow Mr. Allen to be released without further delay so that he can be reunited with his family." -30-
10.17.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2012Clay Helps Dedicate Arlington Grove Mixed-Use Development in North St. LouisExceptional Project Puts $10 Million in Recovery Act Dollars to Work to Save Historic School, Transform Wells-Goodfellow NeighborhoodST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined with Friendly Temple Senior Pastor Michael Jones to dedicate the exciting new Arlington Grove Development in the Wells-Goodfellow Neighborhood in North St. Louis. The $32 million project was funded in part by a $10 million Recovery Act grant awarded to the St. Louis Housing Authority. Congressman Clay was a strong advocate for, and helped craft the Recovery Act. As a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, he made certain that affordable and sustainable housing efforts like Arlington Grove were included in the landmark legislation.In his remarks at the dedication, the Congressman said, “It’s a pleasure to join with my good friend, Friendly Temple Senior Pastor Michael Jones, to celebrate this truly remarkable achievement. I’m especially proud of the Arlington Grove project because included in the $32 million funding package is a $10 million dollar competitive Recovery Act grant, \awarded by HUD, and administered through the St. Louis Housing Authority for projects just like this. To date…the Recovery Act has invested more than $5 billion dollars across the State of Missouri, including an over $400 million dollar direct federal investment right here in my congressional district. The Congressman continued,“I also want to congratulate Mayor Francis Slay; Alderman Jeffrey Boyd; McCormack-Baron-Salazar; the St. Louis Housing Authority and KAI Design & Build for creating one of the greenest multi-unit developments in the country. This is one of the first federally supported multi-unit developments in the nation that will have solar panels and many other sustainable systems and materials included in the design. Besides the new construction, I am so pleased that we were able to save and reutilize the beautiful, historic Arlington School. Finally, this is a real tribute to Pastor Jones and the members of his congregation who saw this project as an opportunity to spread Friendly Temple’s holy mission by changing lives and transforming this neighborhood.”
10.17.2012	Clay Joins U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis to Announce $15 Million Worker Training Grant to Spur Skilled Manufacturing JobsSt. Louis Community College at Florissant Valley to Lead Statewide Collaborative of Nine Educational InstitutionsST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri welcomed U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis to St. Louis last week to announce an almost $15 million worker training grant that will allow 3,000 students across Missouri to gain professional certification to fill high-demand jobs in skilled manufacturing. Congressman Clay and Secretary Solis were joined at St. Louis Community College at Florissant Valley by St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley and SLCC Chancellor Dr. Myrtle Dorsey to announce the good news.In his remarks made after a tour of the skilled training facility, Congressman Clay said, I want to personally thank President Obama and my good friend Secretary Solis for supporting my efforts to bring this almost $15 million grant to the State of Missouri. That much needed funding will bring skilled manufacturing training to over three thousand students across this state. The Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Grant program was authorized in 2009 as part of the Recovery Act, a critical piece of legislation that I was proud to fight for. Today’s grant announcement is a giant boost for the St. Louis region that will greatly strengthen our vital manufacturing base.”St. Louis Community College is the lead agency that will administer this grant that also includes funding for eight other institutions of higher learning under the MO-WINS manufacturing program. Locally, St. Louis Community College will receive $4 million dollars, the largest portion of the grant, for statewide grant administration and local training programs. That federal investment will allow St. Louis Community College to train 442 participants in production, machining, transportation, and logistics over the three-year grant period. Collectively, over 1000 industry recognized credentials will be awarded to those students. -30-
10.02.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday, October 2, 2012Clay Convenes Congressional Conversation on RaceCommunity Leaders & Young St. Louisans Discuss Painful Racial History, Strive to Find Common Ground & Healing to Combat Plague of Youth ViolenceST. LOUIS - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined with members of the 1st District Congressional Youth Cabinet, the Faith & Politics Institute, and the Search for Common Ground at a daylong historic tour and powerful discussion about St. Louis’ difficult racial past and the progress that could be achieved in the future with an honest & open commitment to civic engagement and positive action. The Congressional Conversation on Race was only the fourth such event of its kind in the nation.Congressman Clay opened the proceedings with remarks at St. Louis’ historic Old Court House, the site where Dred and Harriet Scott first sued for their freedom in 1847. “Today, we hope to begin a new way to talk about race relations,” said the Congressman.“We hope to steer the conversation away from debate and blame…towards listening; towards understanding; towards our shared humanity…to achieve a stronger, more unified community. In too many cases, young people are turning to mindless violence. That is happening in St. Louis and across this country. I believe that racism and the many disparities it creates…in jobs, education, healthcare, housing and even in our judicial system, is a major contributing factor to the problem.”In additional to the opening remarks at the Old Court House, students, teachers, community leaders, clergy and law enforcement officials experienced a remarkable reenactment of the painful legacy of slavery in Missouri and a historic tour of civil rights landmarks including: the Dred and Harriet Scott statue; the Mary Meacham Bissell Point Underground Railroad site; the pool at Fairgrounds Park and the site of the Jefferson Bank protests in downtown St. Louis. The day concluded with an intense discussion at the Missouri Historical Society that focused on youth violence and the role that race plays in perpetuating a cycle where too many young people continue to act in irresponsible and harmful ways. Race and violence have always been linked in America. The goal of the Congressional Conversation on Race was to engage the community, especially young people, in a new way to indentify progressive actions to promote truth, racial reconciliation and healing. That process is on-going.-30-
09.19.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Wednesday, September 19, 2012 Clay Says Inspector General’s Report on “Fast & Furious” Confirms that Attorney General Holder Never Misled CongressContempt Citation was Politically Motivated, Outrageous Abuse of PowerWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri welcomed the findings of the Justice Department Inspector General’s Report released today which substantiates the testimony of U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee regarding when he became aware of the ill-conceived “Fast and Furious” gun-walking program. Mr. Clay, who strongly opposed the outrageous and unprecedented contempt citation against the Attorney General said, “Today’s report by the Inspector General confirms that the contempt citation was an outrageous, politically-driven abuse of power, not based in fact, but based on a preconceived notion of guilt. The IG report shows that Attorney General Holder testified truthfullyandhe never misled Congress. When the Majority abuses its power for partisan purposes, as was clearly the case in this instance, facts are not found, justice is not served, and the confidence of the American people in their government is undermined.” === Summary of DOJ Inspector General Report on Operation Fast and Furious and Operation Wide Receiver Today, the Inspector General of the Department of Justice, Michael E. Horowitz, issued his office’s report on allegations of “gunwalking” by the Phoenix Field Division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF). The report was requested on February 28, 2011, by Attorney General Eric Holder. The Inspector General’s report was the result of year-and-a-half long investigation that involved a review of more than 100,000 pages of documents and interviews of more than 130 witnesses. Executive privilege was not asserted over any aspect of the Inspector General’s report or any of the documents on which the report relied. With respect to the more extreme claims made by Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell E. Issa, the Inspector General’s report did not substantiate them. The report did not support allegations that gunwalking was a strategy authorized and approved by the Attorney General, that gunwalking was used as a deliberate strategy to promote stronger gun laws, that the FBI concealed a “third gun” from the murder scene of Agent Brian Terry, or that Department officials intentionally misled Congress during the Committee’s investigation. In contrast, the report’s findings did parallel many of those set forth in a minority report issued last January. That report found that Operation Fast and Furious was the latest in a series of fatally flawed operations run by ATF field agents in Phoenix during both the previous and current administrations. No finding that the Attorney General authorized, approved of, or knew about “gunwalking.” · The Inspector General’s report found “no evidence that Attorney General Holder was informed about Operation Fast and Furious, or learned about the tactics employed by ATF in the investigation, prior to January 31, 2011.” (p.297) · The Inspector General’s report does not support Chairman Issa’s claims that gunwalking was “an approved plan uh, that you know is basically at the highest levels of the Obama appointees” and that the Department “authorized every aspect of this … at the highest level.” Gunwalking started under the Bush Administration in 2006. · The Inspector General’s report concluded thatOperation Wide Receiver “was noteworthy because it informed our understanding of how these tactics were used by ATF more than three years before Operation Fast and Furious was initiated.” (p. 27) · Similarly, the minority report found that “gunwalking operations originated as early as 2006 as agents in the Phoenix Field Division of ATF devised a strategy to forego arrests against low-level purchasers while they attempted to build bigger cases against higher-level trafficking organizers and financiers.” Operation Fast and Furious was a ground-up operation. · The Inspector General’s report found that “Operation Fast and Furious and related matters revealed a series of misguided strategies, tactics, errors in judgment, and management failures that permeated ATF Headquarters and the Phoenix Field Division, as well as the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Arizona.” (p. 471) · The Inspector General’s report also found that “the decision of ATF and the U.S. Attorney’s Office to not take action against straw purchasers earlier in the investigation was primarily the result of tactical and strategic decisions by the agents and prosecutors, rather than because of any legal limitation on their ability to do so.” (p. 134) · Similarly, the minority report found that “ATF agents in Phoenix and prosecutors in the Arizona U.S. Attorney’s Office embarked on a deliberate strategy not to arrest straw purchasers while they attempted to make larger cases against higher-level targets,” and that “these officials claimed they had no probable cause to arrest any straw purchasers at the time.” No finding that senior Department officials intentionally misled Congress. · The Inspector General’s report did not find that senior Justice Department officials engaged in an intentional effort to mislead Congress. Instead, the Inspector General found that “Department officials relied on information provided by senior component officials that was not accurate.” (p. 395) · The Inspector General’s report also found: “In preparing the February 4 response to the allegations in Sen. Grassley’s January 27 letter, the primary sources of information to Department officials about Operation Fast and Furious were [U.S. Attorney Dennis] Burke, [Acting ATF Director Ken] Melson, and [Acting ATF Deputy Director Billy] Hoover … these component officials failed to exercise appropriate oversight of the investigation, and to some extent were themselves receiving incorrect or incomplete information from their subordinates about it.” (pp. 395-396) · The Inspector General’s report also found that a “May 2 letter [to Congress] was true only in the most literal sense” and “reasonably could be understood as at least a partial reaffirmation of the February 4 letter at a time when Department officials knew or should have known that the February 4 letter contained inaccurate information.” (p. 468) · The Inspector General’s report does not support Chairman Issa’s claims that “[t]here’s no question that this was a cover-up from day one,” that “the top brass at Justice they knew and reported and was fully aware that guns were walking while they were telling Congress that they never let guns walk,” and that “at some point, Eric Holder became part of the cover-up.” No finding that the Administration promoted gunwalking to justify stronger gun laws. · The Inspector General’s report found “no evidence that contradicted Melson’s statements to us concerning the long gun reporting requirement; and no evidence that ATF Phoenix initiated the investigation in order to facilitate efforts to obtain long gun legislation.” (p. 263) · The Inspector General’s report included no evidence to support Chairman Issa’s claims that, “Very clearly, they made a crisis, and they are using this crisis to somehow take away or limit people’s second amendment rights,” or “What were they thinking of? Could it be that what they really were thinking of was in fact to use this, this walking of guns in order to promote an assault weapons ban? Many think so, and they haven’t come up with an explanation that would cause any of us not to agree.”
09.13.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Thursday, September 13, 2012Clay Praises Significant Progress at John Cochran Veterans Affairs Medical CenterNew Report from VA Inspector General Cites “Vast Improvements” at Facility WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri welcomed the findings of a follow-up report by the Office of the VA Inspector General which cited “vast improvements” at John Cochran VA Medical Center in St. Louis. The facility had been previously cited for serious deficiencies and improper sterilization procedures of dental instruments and trays which could have potentially exposed over 1800 patients to infectious diseases. “I am very pleased that the new, state-of-the-art Supply Processing Service (SPS) is fully staffed and running around the clock,”said Mr. Clay, who represents the medical center. “Over the last two years, I have worked closely with the Department of Veterans Affairs, the medical staff and hospital employees to support their team efforts to correct the serious problems at Cochran so that our veterans can be assured that they will receive the highest standards of safety and patient care. The inspector general’s report is proof positive that our efforts have succeeded.”The Office of the Inspector General report states:“The facility has made vast improvements in its reusable medical equipment-related policies and practices over the past 6 months. Supply Processing Service (SPS) leadership positions have been filled, and SPS has moved into its fully renovated state-of-the-art space. The central issue of patient safety during dental procedures has been addressed. We consider the report closed.”-30-
09.13.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Thursday, September 13, 2012Clay Honors Congressman Jerry Costello Salutes Retiring Friend and Mentor WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri paid special tribute to his long-time friend and mentor, Congressman Jerry Costello (D) Illinois, who will retire at the conclusion of the 112th Congress. Below in its entirety, is Congressman Clay’s specialorderfloor statement, as prepared for delivery and as entered into the Congressional Record.------FLOOR STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIHONORING CONGRESSMAN JERRY COSTELLO (D) ILLINOIS AS HE PREPARES TO RETIREWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2012(As prepared for delivery)“Mr. Speaker:I rise today to honor my great friend and colleague, the distinguished senior member from Illinois…Mr. Costello;As he prepares to retire at the conclusion of the 112th Congress.Congressman Costello has been a trusted friend and mentor to me for the last twelve years.When I first arrived as a freshman Member of Congress in 2001, Congressman Costello was here to greet me and guide me along the right path.And over the years, I have continued to rely on his good advice and wise counsel.His departure is a great loss for the State of Illinois, the citizens of the 12th district, and the St. Louis regional delegation.For the last twenty-four years, Mr. Costello has been a tireless advocate for southern Illinois and metro east.He has been a champion for rebuilding and enhancing our transportation infrastructure.The magnificent new Mississippi River Bridge that is currently under construction will be a powerful symbol of his legacy of leadership.Congressman Costello has also been the patron saint of Scott Air Force Base…the largest employer in southern Illinois.Our region, and indeed, our nation are stronger because of his continuous efforts to preserve and expand this vital national defense asset.Mr. Speaker, I consider it a great blessing to have had the opportunity to serve with Congressman Costello and to call him my good friend.I honor him for his service to his state, the St. Louis region and our nation.And I salute him on a remarkable congressional career.I yield back the balance of my time.” -30-
08.27.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, August 27, 2012 Clay Announces $200K U.S. Justice Department Grant to Expand and Enhance St. Louis City Drug CourtCalls for Renewal of Federal Assault Weapons Ban to Fight Gun ViolenceST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded the St. Louis City Drug Court a $200,000 grant to expand its reach and enhance vital offender intervention services like treatment for substance abuse, healthcare, mental health services and job training. The Congressman also called for the renewal of the federal assault weapons ban to combat a surge of gun violence in this country.At this morning’s announcement, which was held at St. Louis City Hall, Congressman Clay was joined by St. Louis Mayor Francis G. Slay and St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department Chief Dan Isom. In his remarks, the Congressman said, “I want to thank the Justice Department and U.S. Attorney for Eastern Missouri Richard Callahan for supporting my efforts to help break the cycle of repeated drug use, which often leads to gun violence.”Mr. Clay also called for the renewal of the federal assault weapons ban which expired in 2004. “I intend to support legislation to renew the federal assault weapons ban,” said Clay.“The original assault weapons ban was signed into law by President Clinton in 1994. And for the ten years that followed, gun violence in this country went down…and America was a much safer place. In 2004, President Bush and the Republican majority in Congress allowed the ban to expire…and that was a mistake that we are still paying for today.”St. Louis Police Chief Dan Isom also described a new, innovative violent crime targeting plan that will create an overlay shift of officers to focus intensified police coverage in 12 neighborhoods in the City of St. Louis….eight in North St. Louis, two in the Central West End, and two in South St. Louis.-30-
08.21.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2012Clay Applauds EPA Unilateral Administrative Order to Force Asbestos Removal at Carter Carburetor Superfund SiteSays Time for Excuses is Over, Time for Action is NowWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 7 has issued a Unilateral Administrative Order to Carter Building, Inc. to force the cleanup of asbestos at the Carter Carburetor Superfund Site, located at Grand and Dodier in the City of St. Louis.“I am happy to announce this major advance towards ending a serious danger to our community,” said the Congressman.“Working closely with the EPA, I strongly support the Unilateral Administrative Order to force this important phase of the Carter Carburetor clean-up forward. The removal of asbestos from both the main building and the Wilco building moves us closer to the ultimate goal of a completed clean-up of all toxins and contaminates from the entire site. The time for excuses is over, the time for action is now.”This UAO was issued under the Superfund Comprehensive Environmental Resource Conservation Liability Act, Section 106. Cleanup of asbestos is the first stage required to begin removal activities at the highly contaminated former Carter Carburetor site.The Unilateral Administrative Order is an important procedural step in the ongoing efforts to secure the cleanup of the former Carter Carburetor Site. It is not a settlement or final resolution of the case. The EPA is continuing to negotiate with the potentially responsible parties. -30-
07.20.2012	STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING TRAGIC SHOOTING IN AURORA, COLORADO NOTE:The following, in its entirety,is a first-person statement byCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri ST. LOUIS, MO –"This morning's tragedy in Aurora, Colorado reminds every parent about what really matters, the health and safety of our children.As a father, I send my thoughts and prayers to the victims and their families who have suffered this great loss.May God bless them with strength, comfort, healing and courage." -30-
07.18.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY, JULY 18, 2012Clay Announces $5 Million Transportation Grant to Fund Bus Replacements for Metro New Federal Investment in Mass Transit is Great News for Public Transportation in St. LouisWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Metro (the Bi-State Development Agency) a $5 million competitive grant under the U.S. DOT’s Good Repair Program, for bus replacement. “I want to personally thank President Obama and my good friend and former colleague, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, for supporting my efforts to increase federal investments in public transportation,” said the Congressman.“Safe, dependable public transit is absolutely vital to our community. It generates new jobs, it allows transit-dependent employees to get to work, and it helps our environment by taking cars off the street. When we invest in public transit,we create and save good jobs, we clean up the air, and we expand accessfor everyone. This is a big win for our entire community.”This project was selected on a competitive basis through the FY 2012 State of Good Repair Program -30-.
07.11.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY, JULY 11, 2012Clay Calls Defense of Affordable Care Act “A Great Moral Test” That Republicans Have Failed 31 Times(As prepared for delivery, U.S. House of Representatives)WASHINGTON, DC –FLOOR STATEMENT IN DEFENSE OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.REP. WM. LACY CLAYWEDNESDAY, JULY 11, 2012“Mr. Speaker, I cannot believe we are asked for a thirty-first time to repeal the Affordable Care Act.This isn’t just a policy issue. This is a moral test, Mr. Speaker. This is one of the great moral tests of our time.And those who vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act are failing that moral test. They are utterly failing that test.Paying health insurance premiums and other health care bills has become very difficult for American families. Premiums have gone up each year and the cost of health care has escalated. Insurance companies have shifted costs to consumers through increases in deductibles and copayments, and decreases in covered services. Low- and middle-income families need relief from skyrocketing health care costs. The Affordable Care Act – the Constitutional Affordable Care Act –provides real relief to American families.First, the Affordable Care Act provides direct financial relief to millions of insured American families that struggle to pay health insurance premiums today. The new law allows families to shop for a plan in new state insurance exchanges. And it allows them to receive a big discount on their premiums. The ACA protects people from high deductibles, high copayments, and unexpected gaps in their insurance coverage in three ways: It eliminates lifetime and annual limits on how much an insurance plan will pay for covered benefits. That means payments won’t suddenly run out.It caps how much a person must spend each year on deductibles and copayments for covered benefits. That means that families won’t be forced to lose their homes because they get sick.And it provides additional help with out-of-pocket costs for lower-income families. Second, the ACA expands affordable insurance options to families who could not afford coverage before. Medicaid now will be available to families with incomes at or below133 percent of the federal poverty level. For people with incomes above that level and up to 400 percent of poverty, the new premium tax credits will help them afford coverage. Reducing the number of uninsured will reduce the “hidden health tax” that is imposed on insured families. We all pay higher premiums to pay for care of the uninsured.Third, the Affordable Care Act will slow the growth of underlying health care costs and help all Americans. As I have said on this Floor before, the Affordable Care Act is the greatest improvement in women’s health in decades. Under the ACA, millions of women are gaining access to affordable health care coverage. Women will not have to pay more than men for the same insurance policies. Women will not be denied coverage because they are sick or have pre-existing conditions.Women will be guaranteed preventive services such as mammograms and cervical cancer screenings, with no deductibles or copays. Pregnant and parenting women on Medicaid will get access to needed services. Senior women will have access to coordinated care. Senior women will save thousands of dollars as reform closes the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap.Family caregivers – who are typically women – will benefit from new supports that help them care for their loved ones while also taking care of themselves.Mr. Speaker, as the great progressive Hubert Humphrey said: “The moral test of government is how that government treats those who are in the dawn of life, the children; Those who are in the twilight of life, the elderly; Those who are in the shadows of life; the sick, the needy and the handicapped.By voting to repeal the ACA, my colleagues are failing that test, Mr.Speaker. They are failing that moral test.I yield back the balance of my time.”
07.03.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday, 7.3.12 Congressman Clay and Mayor Slay Announce $600,000 in Federal Grants to Support Job Training for Veterans ST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri and St. Louis Mayor Francis G. Slay announced today that the U.S. Department of Labor has awarded $600,000 in federal grants to be shared by the City of St. Louis and the St. Patrick Center to advance their on-going efforts to help veterans with job training and to combat homelessness among those who have served. In an event this afternoon at the St. Patrick Center in downtown St. Louis, Congressman Clay said, “I want to personally thank President Obama and Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis for supporting my efforts to take care of our veterans when they come home. These job training programs are essential. And I’m very pleased to help provide $600,000 in federal grants, to be shared equally by the City of St. Louis and the wonderful St. Patrick Center, as part of the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program.” Mr. Clay continued, “Tomorrow, as we celebrate our nation’s freedom, let’s take a moment to remember that freedom is not free. We stand here today as a free people, because our veterans were willing to serve. Now, it is our duty to stand up and serve them when they come home.”Also included are grants that are designed to address difficult to serve subpopulations of homeless Veterans, the Homeless Female Veterans and Veterans with Families Program and the Incarcerated Veterans Transition Program. “This funding will allow St. Patrick Center to continue our nationally-recognized work with veterans throughout our community," said St. Patrick Center CEO Tom Etling. "We appreciate our innovative partnership with the U.S Department of Labor and the City of St. Louis, as there are no better advocates for our clients than Congressman Clay and Mayor Slay."HVRP grants provide occupational, classroom and on-the-job training, as well as job search and placement assistance, including follow-up services.“The City of St. Louis has a long history of working hard to serve our veterans,” said Mayor Slay. “I’m pleased that we have continued to receive federal grant money to continue our efforts.”Grantees under the HVRP program network and coordinate their efforts with various local, state and federal social service providers to maximize the assistance available to assist the homeless veteran. More information on the Department of Labor’s unemployment and re-employment programs for veterans can be found at www.dol.gov/vets -30
06.28.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 2012 FLOOR STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURION THE HOLDER CONTEMPT RESOLUTION(As prepared for delivery) WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. REPRESENTATIVE WM. LACY CLAYTHURSDAY, JUNE 28, 2012“Mr. Speaker,I am a senior Member of the Oversight Committee. I know that the gun-walking operations conducted by the ATF under both the previous and current Administrations were absolutely wrong. But the leadership of this House is focused on shameful election-year political posturing instead of the real issue.The Justice Department long ago ended the practice of allowing these guns to “walk” across the border, putting communities in Mexico at great risk.But the same people who have relentlessly pursued a baseless, partisan attack on Attorney General Holder and the president have ignored the desperate pleas of the Mexican government: To strengthen American gun laws, and curb the gun trafficking that gave rise to the strategy in the first place.But focusing on the real issue would take time away from their playing politics with their oversight authority.Those on the other side of the aisle claim to be concerned about powerful assault weapons crossing the border into Mexico illegally. But how they can be completely fine with those same powerful assault weapons being sold right here in this country legally, putting our communities at even greater risk?This is nothing more than a political witch-hunt. The disgraceful posturing that I witnessed at last week’s markup has been continued on the Floor today.I agree that it never should have to come to this. But we are here debating this resolution solely because of the Majority. They created the scandal, and produced the “showdown” during an election season, just to smear an honorable, dedicated public servant. And to embarrass his boss.I urge my colleagues to reject this nakedly partisan, unprecedented abuse of power and vote NO on this resolution.I yield back the balance of my time.” -30-
06.28.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 2012 STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING THE REPUBLICAN CONTEMPT CITATION AGAINST ATTORNEY GENERAL HOLDER NOTE: The following, in its entirety,is a first-person statement byCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri WASHINGTON, DC– “The Republican Leadership is rushing recklessly to a contempt vote. They are focused on shameful election-year political posturing instead of the real issue. Those who are relentlessly pursuing a baseless, partisan attack on Attorney General Holder and the president have ignored the desperate pleas of the Mexican government: to strengthen American gun laws, and curb the gun trafficking that gave rise to the strategy in the first place.How can the Republican leadership be content with those same powerful assault weapons being sold right here in this country legally, putting our communities at even greater risk? This “investigation” has been nothing more than a disgraceful political witch-hunt. Now, instead of focusing on job creation and other critical issues before this Congress, we have been asked to engage in a political stunt on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. Our constituents elected us to do real work, not to engage in meaningless partisan activity. Contempt power should be used sparingly, carefully and only in the most egregious situations. The Republican Leadership has articulated no legislative purpose for pursuing this course of action. For these reasons I cannot and will not participate in a vote to hold the Attorney General in contempt. I adamantly oppose this partisan attack and refuse to participate in any vote that would tarnish the image of Congress or of an Attorney General who has done nothing but work tirelessly to protect the rights of the American people. I choose now to stand up for justice.” -30-
06.28.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 2012 STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT RULING ON THE HEALTH CARE REFORM LAW NOTE: The following, in its entirety,is a first-person statement byCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriWASHINGTON, DC– “I am extremely pleased by the Court’s ruling that the health care reform law is constitutional. This is not a political triumph, but a victory for the American people. I was, and continue to be, a proud cosponsor of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. I wholeheartedly believe in making quality health care available to and affordable for all Americans, and am encouraged that the Supreme Court agrees.This ruling is significant. Insurance premiums will not increase, and health care costs for all of us will continue to be reined in. Most importantly, tens of millions of Americans will gain health insurance. That is the true victory.This is also a big win for those who currently have health insurance. Individuals with pre-existing conditions will not face unaffordable premiums, and insurance companies will not be able decline to cover them. Parents will continue to be able to cover their children aged nineteen through twenty-six under their insurance plans. Seniors will not be forced to choose between paying for their prescription drugs – at astronomical prices – or buying food or heating their homes this winter. I look forward to full implementation of the Affordable Care Act, when quality, affordable health care coverage will be available for all.” -30-
06.25.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY, JUNE 25, 2012 STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT RULING ON ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW NOTE: The following, in its entirety,is a first-person statement byCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri ST. LOUIS, MO– “I am encouraged that the Supreme Court has struck down key provisions of Arizona's immigration law. This ruling confirms the urgent need for comprehensive immigration reform that is honest, compassionate and enforceable across the country.However, I am very troubled by the remaining provision of the law which was upheld, the so-called “Show me your papers section,” which could result in racial profiling by law enforcement agencies. Immigration reform cannot be achieved by undermining civil rights. Law enforcement agencies in Arizona and elsewhere must not take this ruling as a license to judge individuals solely by what they look like.” -30-
06.20.2012	OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNMENT REFORM COMMITTEEHOLDER CONTEMPT CITATION BUSINESS MEETINGJUNE 20, 2012 10 AMWM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIOPENING STATEMENT(as prepared for delivery) Thank you, Mr. Chairman.We in Congress, and especially those of us who serve on the Oversight Committee, can get pretty passionate about our responsibilities. We take our duties seriously, as we should.When that passion increases to fervor, however, our interest in overseeing the federal government can sometimes get the better of us.We can become so focused on what we originally wanted, that we can lose sight of the point of our inquiry.And we have all experienced, I am sure, how our staff can sometimes become overzealous in their attempts to help us do our jobs. When we take the time to investigate an allegation, and we spend money examining the issue, naturally we want to see results. We want to get to the bottom of the problem. And, of course, we often feel the need to show that we weren’t wasting our time, or the taxpayers’ resources.But the test of leadership isn’t about sticking to the plan no matter how badly it goes wrong. It isn’t about seeing something through even though it’s clearly a failure. Successful leaders re-evaluate. They recognize when it’s time to change course. When it’s time to give up a plainly incorrect theory. When it’s time to admit one was wrong.I was encouraged when the Majority, correctly, significantly narrowed the scope of the documents they demanded of the Justice Department. It would have been illegal for the Department to produce wiretap applications, grand jury testimony and information about confidential informants.However, when one starts out with the presumption of guilt, of a cover-up – as the Majority did when they began this investigation – it’s extremely difficult to admit when one is proven wrong.And that’s how this began: with the presumption of guilt on the part of the Administration, and in particular on the part of the Attorney General. Not because of any evidence of wrongdoing. Not because of any facts that would warrant such an aggressive and partisan “investigation.”But because the Majority came into this Congress accusing the president of being the “most corrupt president in history.” They majestically promised seven investigatory hearings a week. They predicted scandal after scandal after scandal would be uncovered and examined and confirmed.And, one by one, the Majority held hearings on these so-called scandals.And, one by one, these so-called scandals turned out to be anything but.Grants weren’t politicized. Waivers weren’t granted inappropriately. Regulations weren’t job-killing. Government employees weren’t creating deficits. The NLRB wasn’t a “rogue agency.” The Administration really is for an “all of the above” energy policy.But the one charge, the one allegation, the one so-called scandal that seemed to take hold, at least in the press that is favorable to the Majority, was Fast and Furious. With sensational charges, reckless accusations, and by exploiting a tragedy, the Majority tried to create the scandal they were looking for. They put all of their efforts into making this the smoking gun that would, once and for all, prove the Chairman’s initial charge of a corrupt – no, the most corrupt – president in our history.But in hearing after hearing after hearing, we have learned the opposite.We have learned that the operation began in the Bush Administration, and that Attorney General Holder ended it.We have learned that the Justice Department was not improperly withholding documents, but in fact were properly safeguarding our documents according to the law.We have learned that instead of the wrongdoing, of the corruption, of the cover-up, that the Majority had promised to deliver, there was nothing of the sort on the part of the Attorney General.And so, after being brought down this blind alley, we come to a decision point. Will the Majority admit, or even accept, that they were wrong? Will they re-evaluate? Will they truly lead this Committee?As I said, I was encouraged by the narrowed scope of the documents being demanded. That was a good first step towards bringing us out of this alley.I urge this Committee to continue the re-evaluation of what has clearly turned out to be in fact not a scandal, not a cover-up. I urge my colleagues to reject this citation.” -30-
06.20.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY, JUNE 20, 2012Clay Calls Contempt Citation Against U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder PartisanSays Committee Action Exploits Tragedy WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri blasted a partisan contempt citation issued by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee today. In his opening statement Mr. Clay said:“With sensational charges, reckless accusations and by exploiting a tragedy, the Majority tried to create the scandal they were looking for.When one starts out with the presumption of guilt, of a cover-up – as the Majority did when they began this investigation – it’s extremely difficult to admit when one is proven wrong.And that’s how this began: with the presumption of guilt on the part of the Administration, and in particular on the part of the Attorney General. Not because of any evidence of wrongdoing. Not because of any facts that would warrant such an aggressive and partisan “investigation.”But because the Majority came into this Congress accusing the president of being the “most corrupt president in history. They majestically promised seven investigatory hearings a week. They predicted scandal after scandal after scandal would be uncovered and examined and confirmed. And, one by one, the Majority held hearings on these so-called scandals. And, one by one, these so-called scandals turned out to be anything but.”-30-
06.07.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Thursday, 6.7.12 Clay Congratulates Gateway Arch for Designation as one of National Park Foundation’s 2012 Best Idea Grant WinnersSt. Louis’ Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Joins 49 Parks Across the Nation to Participate in Foundation’s 2012 ProgramST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial (the Gateway Arch) has been selected as one of 49 national parks participating in the 2012 America’s Best Idea programsponsored by the National Park Foundation, the official charity of America’s national parks.Inspired by the critically-acclaimed Ken Burns documentaryThe National Parks: America’s Best Idea, the America’s Best Idea grant program funds park projects designed to connect diverse, under-engaged populations throughout the United States with their national parks in innovative and meaningful ways.“I want to congratulate the outstanding leadership team at the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial, the National Park Foundation and the wonderful students at Maplewood-Richmond Heights elementary school on this terrific honor,said the Congressman.“The Gateway Arch is truly one of the jewels of my congressional district. Across the nation, this grant program will strengthen the connections between our magnificent national parks and young Americans. It will also help the National Park Service open up our nation’s legacy to students in a very interactive way.”In St. Louis, the grant will support reaching out to approximately 365 students and 30 educators by 'adopting' all the classes at Maplewood-Richmond Heights Elementary School. The Arch will work with 2nd through 6th graders during the fall. They will have contact with the students and educators on several occasions throughout the semester, both at the school and at the Arch. Students will visit the park in the spring and activities developed and lessons learned from this project will be carried over into the school's curriculum in future years.“We are proud to provide the much needed support to create unique opportunities for all Americans to personally connect with their national parks,” said Neil Mulholland, President and CEO of the National Park Foundation. “The America’s Best Idea grants are often the catalyst for extraordinary experiences that develop into lifelong relationships with our national parks for the program participants.”For a full listing of participating parks and program descriptions, please visit the National Park Foundation website.About the National Park Foundation. The American people own 84 million acres of the world’s most treasured memorials, landscapes, ecosystems, and historic sites -- all protected in nearly 400 national parks. Chartered by Congress, the National Park Foundation is the official charity of America’s national parks. -30-
06.05.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday, 6.5.12Over Five Thousand Job Seekers Flock to Clay’s 7th Annual Career Fair105 Companies Offer Over 1,000 Job Openings in St. Louis AreaST. LOUIS-Congressman Lacy Clay’s 7th Annual Career Fair at Harris-Stowe State University surpassed all previous records for attendance and employer participation. By noon, five thousand guests had come through the doors. And streams of eager job seekers arrived throughout the afternoon to visit the 105 employers from across the region and the nation. “The amazing response from across our community was remarkable,” said the Congressman. “Over five thousand attendees came through our doors and they were ready to go to work. My number one priority is to help put my constituents back to work and to connect them with job opportunities that they could not take advantage of by themselves.”In remarks to kick off the 2012 Career Fair, Congressman Clay said, “Having a job means that you can look in the mirror and know that you can provide for your family. It means that you can start building a future. It means restoring the dignity of work to those who have been unemployed for too long.We accomplished that today in a big way, and I am very proud to have helped so many good people.”Congressman Clay’s 7th Annual Career Fair was presented with the invaluable help and support of Harris-Stowe State University and all of our outstanding vendor partners. We thank them for their participation and we look forward to Career Fair ‘2013.-30-
05.21.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Thursday, 5.17.12 Clay’s 7th Annual Career Fair Will Feature Over 100 Top EmployersThousands of Eager Job Seekers Expected to Attend St. Louis’ Biggest Free Career Fair- Monday, June 4th at Harris-Stowe State University-ST.LOUIS- Congressman Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will present his 7th Annual First District Career Fair on Monday, June 4th from 9:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m. at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center located at 3026 Laclede Avenue. This unique jobs event will feature over 100 of the St. Louis area’s top employers, and it’s absolutely free.“My top priority is aligning my constituents with opportunities for employment.” said the Congressman.”Our Career Fair is St. Louis’ biggest and best jobs event. We will feature over 100 companies from all sectors of the region’s economy, along with great job opportunities with federal, state and local government agencies.” The Congressman added, “Last year, over 5,000 job seekers attended. I would advise guests to arrive early, dress for success and have your printed and electronic resumes ready.”For those interested in public service, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for thousands of federal jobs, worldwide.Among the top St. Louis employers who will be on hand are: the Boeing Company; Express Scripts; BJC Healthcare Systems; World Wide Technology; Centene Corporation; Wells Fargo Advisors;; Best Buy; Macy’s; UPS, Enterprise Holdings; Harrah’s; Ameristar; Schnucks Markets; Hardees Food System and many others. -30-
05.10.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT(314) 504-4029Clay Presents 2012 Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition AwardsYoung Artist’s Creation Will Be Displayed at U.S. Capitol Complex Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri presented Najee Person, of Parkway North High School, with the 2012 First Congressional District Artistic Discovery First Place honors. The ceremony was held at Portfolio Gallery in historic Grand Center. Mr. Person’s creation, a remarkable work in ink entitled, “I Am” will be on display at the U.S. Capitol Complex. He and his parents and will travel to Washington, DC, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to unveil his winning entry.In his remarks to the overflow crowd of young artists, parents and teachers, Congressman Clay said,“Tonight, we are celebrating our eleventh year of recognizing outstanding young artistic talent. As you can see from the artwork, the level of talent is truly impressive. Your work is inspiring, and I encourage all of you to continue to develop your creative talents.”The Artistic Discovery Congressional Competition is in its 27th year nationally. This is the eleventh year that Congressman Clay has conducted the competition in Missouri’s First Congressional District. Twenty-nine young artists from area high schools displayed their entries at a special exhibition at Portfolio Gallery in Grand Center. Congratulations to all the young artists. Here are the 2012 results:1st place - “I Am.” (work in ink by Najee Person, Parkway North H.S.)2nd place - “All Dogs Go to Heaven” (Linoleum cut on paper by Elegance Davis, Hazelwood Central H.S.)3rd place - “Grafton Riverhouse” (photograph by Kimunna Dunn, Riverview Gardens H.S.)
04.03.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY, APRIL 3, 2012STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING FTC APPROVAL OF EXPRESS SCRIPTS ACQUISITION OF MEDCO NOTE: The following, in its entirety,is a first-person statement by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriST. LOUIS, MO –“I want to congratulate Express Scripts on the approval of their $29.1 billion acquisition of Medco by the Federal Trade Commission. This ambitious deal, which I strongly supported, closed today. It will create the nation’s largest pharmacy benefits manager, serving more than 100 million Americans. The new enlarged Express Scripts headquarters team will continue to be located in the heart of my congressional district, next to the UM – St. Louis campus.This deal means good American jobs, big savings for taxpayers and better healthcare outcomes for patients. The powerful positive impact will be enormous for our entire region. This acquisition also creates an unprecedented opportunity for Express Scripts to engage and lift up our entire community by making true diversity and equal opportunity in future construction, procurement, professional services and vendors a corporate-wide priority.”
03.29.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 2012 Clay Applauds Judge’s Ruling Striking Down Missouri Photo ID Constitutional AmendmentSays Court Decision is a Victory for Voting RightsWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri applaudedtoday’s ruling in Cole County Circuit Court which struck down a Missouri constitutional amendment that would have established a photo ID requirement to vote. That measure would have appeared on the November 6th general election ballot.“This is a victory for voting rights and it affirms the most fundamental constitutional guarantee for every citizen in Missouri,” said the Congressman. “Today’s ruling blocks a blatant attempt to disenfranchise seniors, students, the disabled, minorities and the rural poor. As I argued earlier this month at my Voting Rights Symposium at Harris-Stowe State University, the misleading ballot language was designed to confuse Missouri voters into approving an amendment that could have disenfranchised up to 350,000 registered voters. I want to commend the broad coalition of citizen groups and non-profit organizations who stood with me to defend the right to vote.”In her ruling in Cole County Circuit Court, Judge Patricia S. Joyce wrote that the ballot summary for the constitutional amendment was, “Insufficient and unfair.” She continued, "Because significant changes are required here and policy choices need to be made as to how to reallocate the words in a revised summary statement, the Court chooses to vacate the summary statement and to provide the General Assembly an opportunity to revise it.”-30-
03.21.2012	FLOOR STATEMENT ON THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACTREP. WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012(Statement as prepared for delivery in the U.S. House of Representatives)"Mr. Speaker, my friends on the other side of the aisle aren’t here to debate the merits of a particular portion of the Affordable Care Act. They are here to repeal it. And since straight-out repeal didn’t work, they are trying to dismantle it, bit by bit. They are attacking the very parts of the bill that have the greatest impact on its success.My colleagues have and will do an excellent job in explaining the importance of the Independent Payment Advisory Board. I would like to focus on the effects of the Affordable Care Act, or ACA, on women’s health.The ACA is the greatest improvement on women’s health in decades. On average, women have far more experience with our health care system than do men. The health care needs of women are greater, especially during their reproductive years. Historically, women have played a central role in coordinating health care for family members, from spouses and children to aging parents.The ACA will improve women’s access to health insurance coverage, make health care more affordable, and expand benefits. Here are just some of the ways that the ACA, a bill that I am proud to have helped pass, will improve women’s health:Millions of women are gaining access to affordable health care coverage. Women will not have to pay more than men for the same insurance policies. Women will not be denied coverage because they are sick or have pre-existing conditions. Children and young adults will have greater access to quality care. Women will be guaranteed preventive services such as birth control, mammograms and cervical cancer screenings, with no deductibles or copays.More low-income women will have timely access to family planning services by simplifying the process for states to expand Medicaid eligibility. Nursing mothers will have the right to a reasonable break time and a place to express breast milk at work. Pregnant and parenting women on Medicaid will get access to needed services. Senior women will have access to coordinated care. Senior women will save thousands of dollars as reform closes the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap. Women will be able to comparison shop when choosing health plans for their families. Family caregivers – who are typically women – will benefit from new supports that help them care for their loved ones while also taking care of themselves.Family planning providers and Women’s Health Clinics will continue to provide health services to the women they serve. Mr. Speaker, as a son, as a father – as an American – I strongly support the ACA and its improvements to health care for everyone – especially women and children. And dismantling the Act – whether through immediate repeal, lawsuits, or piece by piece – means losing those improvements. And that is unacceptable.I yield back the balance of my time."
03.21.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 21, 2012 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Announces $400K National Endowment for the Humanities Grant to Missouri Historical Society to Help Fund Revolutionary War Exhibit“The American Revolution on the Frontier” Will Open in Spring of 2014WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the National Endowment for the Humanities has awarded a $400,000 grant to the Missouri Historical Society to help produce a groundbreaking new exhibit entitled,“The American Revolution on the Frontier.” “I was very pleased to support this NEH grant that will help fund an exceptional historical exhibit highlighting the Battle of Fort San Carlos, the western-most battle of the American Revolution, and St. Louis’ key strategic role in maintaining control of the Mississippi River during the fight to win our nation’s freedom.” said the Congressman.“The Missouri Historical Society is an invaluable cultural institution that I am proud to represent in Washington. I am looking forward to the debut of this very important project in the spring of 2014.”According to the National Park Service, on May 26, 1780, between 1,300 and 2,000 British-led Sioux, Sac, Fox and Winnebago Indian warriors assaulted the unsuspecting French community of St. Louis, which then had a population of 900 people. The attack was repulsed, denying British forces control of the Mississippi River. The battle site was near where the Old Court House stands today in downtown St. Louis.-30-
03.19.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 19, 2012 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay and Sharpton Call for Nation-wide Drive to Defend the Right to VoteVoting Rights Symposium at Harris-Stowe State University Focuses on Protecting Most Fundamental Constitutional RightST.LOUIS, MO - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri urged an overflow audience at his Voting Rights Symposium to stand up and oppose widespread voter suppression efforts that could disenfranchise millions of legally registered American voters. At the forum, which was held at historic Harris-Stowe State University in St. Louis, the Congressman warned that, “Nothing in our constitution is more fundamental than the right to vote. Across this country, in 38 states, that right is under assault.Up to five million registered voters are at risk of being disenfranchised. Right here in Missouri, our Secretary of State reports that 254,000 registered voters are at risk of being turned away from the polls because they lack a government-issued photo ID. Another 100,000 Missouri voters have expired photo IDs. And that’s just a small example of what is happening across this country.”In a stirring keynote address, Reverend Al Sharpton, President & CEO of the National Action Network and the host of MSNBC’s PoliticsNation said,“Decades ago, African-Americans battled “Jim Crow’’ laws aimed at keeping us from the polls. Now, we’re fighting 'James S. Crow Jr. Esquire.’ He talks in a more refined way … but the result is the same.”The forum also featured expert panelists including Congressional Black Caucus Chairman, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D) Missouri; Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D) Wisconsin; NAACP Chief Legal Counsel Kim Keenan; Advancement Project Senior Attorney Denise Lieberman; DNC Counsel and Director of Voter Protection Will Crossley; Missouri State Representative Stacey Newman; Missouri State Representative Steve Webb; and Missouri State Representative Tishaura Jones. The event was moderated by Ray Hartmann, founder of theRiverfront Timesand CEO of St. Louis Magazine.-30-
03.07.2012	Congressman Clay's Voting Rights Symposium Friday, March 16thHarris-Stowe State University9:30AM CDT Don't miss my Voting Rights Symposium on Friday morning, March 16th at Harris-Stowe State University.So honored to present visiting Members of Congress, national non-profit experts in voter protection, and my special guest, from MSNBC, Reverend Al Sharpton.Friday, March 16, 2012... 9:30 amHarris-Stowe State UniversityBank of America TheaterEmerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center3026 Laclede AvenueSt. Louis, MO 63103Keynote SpeakersCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriReverend Al Sharpton, National Action Network &Host, MSNBC’s PoliticsNationModeratorRay Hartmann, CEO, St. Louis MagazineSpeakers Scheduled to Appear:• Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, (D) Missouri• Congresswoman Maxine Waters, (D) California• Congresswoman Gwen Moore, (D) Wisconsin• Missouri State Representative Stacey Newman, (D) 73rd District• Kim Keenan, General Counsel, NAACP National Office• Denise Lieberman, Senior Attorney, Advancement ProjectThe event is free and open to the public. Space is limited . Security procedures in place, so please arrive early. RSVP to steven.engelhardt@mail.house.gov or(314) 383-5240.
03.06.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 3.6.12STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI ON THE PASSING OF CONGRESSMAN DONALD PAYNE (D) NEW JERSEYNOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-WASHINGTON, DC – “Congressman Donald Payne was much more than just a dedicated and highly respected U.S. Representative from New Jersey’s 10th Congressional District. He was also a remarkable humanitarian who left his mark on this nation and the entire world. I will always remember his passion for closing the achievement gap, providing affordable healthcare and demanding equal opportunities for all. The world will remember his tireless advocacy for human rights, justice and an end to senseless violence in Africa…a cause that he devoted his life to. The people of Newark have lost a wonderful Member of Congress, and I have lost a good friend. I know that my father, former Congressman Bill Clay, who served with Donald for more than ten years, joins me in extending our family’s sympathies to Donald’s family, friends, colleagues, and constituents. He will be sorely missed.” -30-
02.29.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 29, 2012 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Congressman Clay Calls for Justice for Underwater Mortgage HoldersWrite-Downs Would Prevent Foreclosures and Help Stabilize Housing MarketWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Ranking Member on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy, and a leading member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, joined advocates in New York, Washington, D.C. and Southern California today in calling on Edward DeMarco, the Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to write down principal amounts for struggling homeowners.“Twelve million Americans owe more money than their home is worth,” Congressman Clay said.“The American people have been duped, lied to, and kicked out of their homes and now it’s time for Mr. DeMarco to stand up and do right by them.” Combined, Freddie Mac and Fannie Maeown or guarantee more than half of allmortgages in the country. DeMarco has faced calls for his resignation for refusing principal reduction, sometimes called “debt forgiveness,” for Freddie and Fannie mortgage holders. “Underwater homeowners deserve justice,” Mr. Clay said. “Write downs are about keeping families in their homesand saving taxpayers money in the long run by preventing foreclosures. Simple, straightforward principal reductions are a good way to prevent the foreclosure crisis anchor from dragging down the U.S. recovery.” This call echoes that of a coalition of progressive organizations and families from across the nation who are struggling to keep their homes. Protests were held yesterday at regional Freddie Mac offices demanding fair negotiations for themselves and other Americans who have been evicted from their homes. -30-
02.23.2012	Treasury Dept. and Congressman Clay Announce $150 Million in New Market Tax Credits to Create Jobs and Strengthen Neighborhoods in St. LouisCity of St. Louis, US Bank Winners in National Competition -Washington, DC – As part of a $3.6 billion national investment to grow jobs and revive struggling neighborhoods, the U.S. Treasury Department and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, announced today that two St. Louis organizations are among the 70 recipients nation-wide who have been selected to receive New Market Tax Credit funding. In St. Louis, the St. Louis Development Corporation and US Bank will receive $150 million. “This is tremendous news for the City of St. Louis and our entire region, said theCongressman. “The New Market Tax credits are a powerful tool to help cities, and those groups and entities who build up our cities, to encourage private sector investment that creates jobs, transforms distressed neighborhoods and makes financing available for difficult projects in urban areas. I want to personally thank President Obama and Secretary Geithner for being so responsive to my efforts to win this funding for the St. Louis region, and I want to congratulate US Bank and the St. Louis Development Corporation.” Congressman Clay is proud to announce these awardees for the New Market Tax Credit program in the St. Louis region: St. Louis Development Corporation (City of St. Louis) $50 millionSLDC will offer a variety of financial products with flexible structuring alternatives to meet the unique needs of each project. For non-real estate businesses, SLDC will offer equity investments and below-market interest rate loans ranging from $500,000 to $15 million. For real estate businesses, SLDC will offer equity or equity equivalent investments ranging from $500,000 to $5 million, and loans ranging from $500,000 to $15 million, including below-market interest rate loans and leveraged loans.US Bank Community Development Entity$100 millionUSBCDE will provide equity, equity-like debt and favorable loan rates and terms for real estate development and operating businesses. The target borrower will be a qualified business who will develop or rehabilitate commercial real estate as rental or owner occupied property. USBCDE offers complete financing packages from construction to permanent financing.The NMTC, established by Congress in December 2000, permits individual and corporate taxpayers to receive a credit against federal income taxes for making equity investments in vehicles known as Community Development Entities. The credit provided to the investor totals 39 percent of the cost of the investment and is claimed over a seven-year period. Community Development Entities must apply to the CDFI Fund to compete for this allocation authority. The 70 organizations receiving awards were selected from a pool of 314 applicants that requested over $26.7 billion. They are headquartered in 29 different states and the District of Columbia. -30-
02.23.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 23, 2012 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Announces $6.2 Million Federal Grant To Support Emergency HIV/AIDS Relief in the City of St. Louis -WASHINGTON, DC. – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today announced the award by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services of a $6.2 million competitive grant to the City of St. Louis Health Department to fund emergency HIV relief programs. In a statement, Congressman Clay said, “I want to thank HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius for her steadfast support of my ongoing efforts to help the City of St. Louis prevent and treat HIV/AIDs. Since it was officially recognized in 1982, AIDS has killed over 25 million people worldwide while 33.4 million continue to suffer from its effects.In the United States, many of those patients are minorities and women. According to the Centers for Disease Control, HIV/AIDS has had a huge, disproportionate impact on African Americans. Despite representing only 14% of the US population, African Americans account for 44% of all new HIV infections. That disturbing trend is especially acute in St. Louis.” Congressman Clay has been a strong advocate for increased federal support for vital research to combat infectious diseases, expanded access to primary healthcare, and early intervention and treatment for those who are diagnosed as HIV positive. Mr. Clay continued, “For HIV positive patients, early testing and consistent treatment are the keys to their survival and quality of life. We have come a long way in fighting this deadly disease, but it’s clear that we must do more to educate the public and end discrimination in housing and employment for those who are battling this illness.” -30-
01.30.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: SATURDAY 1.28.12Clay Salutes Welcome Home Heroes Parade in St. LouisNation’s First Celebration Honors Iraq VeteransNOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-ST. LOUIS, MO – “It is my great honor to welcome home our brave sons and daughters who served so brilliantly in Iraq. I am proud of the grass-roots effort that grew this Welcome Home Heroes Parade from a handful of patriotic St. Louisans to the thousands who are assembled today in downtown St. Louis to honor these brave veterans. Our Iraq veteranscome home with their heads held high for a job well done. Almost nine years ago, their mission to Iraq began. We could not have known then that the road would be this long and so difficult. But through it all, their love of country, their devotion to duty and their dedication to each other allowed them to achieve all their objectives and much more.More than 1.5 million Americans have served in Iraq. Over 32,000 have been wounded. Nearly 4,500 Americans made the ultimate sacrifice – and they are joined in eternal honor by more than 1800 fallen heroes in Afghanistan. We grieve for them all, and we pray that God will grant their families strength, comfort and courage as they bear this terrible burden. We also salute the steadfast devotion of all military families, because we know it is not only the soldier who serves. We will never forget their strength.Our nation’s commitment to veterans does not end when you take off the uniform. The new G.I Bill, which I was proud to support can help you get the education that will allow you to live out your dreams. And along with President Obama, I am supporting a national effort to put our veterans to work. But even after you come home, your service is not over. Our communities, here in St. Louis and across the nation, need your talent, your energy, your skills and your discipline to rebuilt, restore and reinvigorate our nation. Even though the war in Iraq is over, your mission continues.So to all our Iraq veterans, and to all those who still serve in Afghanistan, we are proud of you. We have ended one war, and we will be winding down another conflict in a way that will make America stronger and the entire world more secure.Thank you for your brave service in the defense of freedom.May God bless you all.And may God continue to bless the United States.”=30-
01.25.2012	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 1.24.12STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESSNOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-WASHINGTON, DC –“Tonight’s speech demonstrated President Obama’s positive vision, and reminded me of Presidents Bill Clinton and Franklin Roosevelt.?President Obama outlined a clear vision about what is really at stake for middle-class families.?American manufacturing and the skilled jobs that it creates is already showing real strength.?We’re seeing that in the St. Louis region at companies like Boeing and General Motors.The President also talked about American energy and oil and gas exploration, and how he intends to expand it in a responsible way. I support his plans for energy independence.?Under President Obama’s leadership, the economy is growing again. ?The economy has added a total of 3.2 million private sector jobs over the last 22 months. ?But too many families are still hurting and unemployment is much too high. So we have a lot of work left to do.President Obama and I intend to keep moving forward and rebuild an economy where hard work pays off and responsibility is rewarded – an economy built to last…for everyone.”?? -30-
12.19.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY, 12.19.11Clay’s Bill Extends Metro’s Bonding Term to 40 YearsIncreased Flexibility Will Allow Agency to Do More on Both Sides of the River- WASHINGTON, DCPresident Barack Obama has just signed into law legislation introduced by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) St. Louis to extend the Metro Transit Agency’s ability to issue and pay off bonds over a longer period of time. The bill, HJRes 70, passed with overwhelming support. “I’m very pleased that we were able to get this done, and I want to thank President Obama for signing this important bill into law.” said Congressman Clay. “The extended bond term will give Metro the flexibility to do more capital improvements that will connect citizens on both sides of the river to jobs, cultural attractions and educational institutions. It may also help us find creative ways to get moving on certain elements of the Arch Grounds redevelopment master plan.” Mr. Clay’s bill amends the original 1949 compact between Missouri and Illinois which created the former”Bi-State Development Agency, now known as Metro. The new provision will allow the regional transit system to issue bonds with up to a 40-year maturity term. The previous limit was 30-years. That added flexibility will allow Metro to finance additional capital projects in a fiscally responsible way, at no additional cost to the taxpayers. Metro operates the St. Louis Metropolitan region’s public transportation system. It has more than 2,400 employees and carries over 55 million passengers each year. -30-
12.13.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday 12.13.11 Clay Says $20 Million Transportation Grant is a Significant Step Forward for Arch Grounds Redevelopment PlanWill Help Fund Downtown Connector-ST. LOUIS- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, whose district includes the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial (the Gateway Arch), praised the announcement by the U.S. Department of Transportation of a $20 million TIGER grant to the Missouri Department of Transportation on behalf of CityArchRiver 2015, a nonprofit group that is spearheading the public/private community effort to redevelop the Arch grounds in downtown St. Louis.“I want to thank President Obama and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood for supporting this vital public/private partnership.” said Mr. Clay. “This grant is one piece in the puzzle that will get us closer to funding the overall redevelopment plan, and along with private support, it will allow us to move forward on the long-anticipated pedestrian bridge which will reconnect the Arch grounds to downtown St. Louis. I was pleased to support this grant, and I will continue working closely with CityArchRiver 2015, the Missouri Department of Transportation, and the National Park Service as we strive together to reinvigorate one of America’s greatest destinations, the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial.”The $20 million competitive grant is funded by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s TIGER III program. It will be used to support infrastructure improvements along I-70, which runs along the western edge of the Arch grounds in downtown St. Louis. It will improve public safety and make access easier for the millions of visitors who experience the Arch and historic Old Court House each year.CityArchRiver 2015 is a public/private partnership in support of an overall $578 million redevelopment project for the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial. The goal of the effort is to complete major elements of the plan by 2015, the 50th anniversary of the Arch. -30-
12.01.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY, 11.30.11 Clay Introduces the Everson Walls and Ron Springs Gift for Life Act of 2011Bill Would Establish New Organ and Tissue Donation RegistryResource Center at HHS - WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has introduced HR 3514, the Everson Walls and Ron Springs Gift for Life Act of 2011. The legislation would establish a National Organ & Tissue Donation registryresource center. “The miracle of organ and tissue donation saves lives,” said Mr. Clay. “The goal of my bill is to elevate the issue of organ and tissue donation to become a national priority so that we can begin to close the gap between hope and the clock of life that still runs out for far too many Americans who are waiting to receive a donated organ.” Congressman Clay’s legislation would establish a National Organ and Tissue Donor Registry Resource Center at the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services to assist states with the development and expansion of registries. The bill would also authorize grants to the states for the registries and limit the liability of hospitals and physicians who expressly follow the wishes of organ donors. “Organ donation is one of modern medicine’s most effective, lifesaving therapies,” said Mr. Clay.“Over the last 25 years, more than 500,000 successful transplants have been performed. And yet every day in this country, eighteen Americans die while waiting for a donated organ. Nationally, 112,552 patients are on the transplant waiting list. We have enough donors, but there is a critical gap in resources, information and liability protection for healthcare facilities and providers who perform these live-saving procedures. In minority communities, that need is even more acute because racial and ethnic minorities suffer from much higher rates of chronic diseases like heart disease, diabetes, respiratory failure, kidney failure and cancer.” Statistics Confirm the National Urgency to Increase Organ & Tissue Donation for Minority Patients • More than 58,000 minority patients are registered on the U.S. transplant waiting list.• Minorities make up 34 % of the U.S. population, but they comprise 54% of patients on the transplant waiting list.• Minorities represent 32 % of living and deceased organ donors.• In 2009, organ transplants were performed on 11,140 minority patients.• In 2009, there were 2,675 minority deceased donors and 2,288 minority living donors.• Anyone can be a potential donor, regardless of age or medical history.• A single donor can save or improve the lives of more than 50 people.• Every major religion in the United States supports organ, eye and tissue donation as one of the highest expressions of compassion and generosity. #30#
12.01.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY, 12.1.11Clay Congratulates Old North St. Louis Restoration Group on National Smart Growth AwardEPA Office of Sustainable Communities Honors 14th Street Rebirth- WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri honored the Old North St. Louis Restoration Group as they received the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s National Smart Growth Achievement Award today on Capitol Hill. According to the EPA, the coveted recognition was bestowed on the St. Louis community group for“Using complementary, forward-looking strategies that encourage a mix of land uses, promote walking, rehabilitate vacant buildings, and establish green spaces.” “I want to congratulate Sean Thomas and all the community partners who collaborated with the Old North St. Louis Restoration Group on winning this prestigious national honor,” said the Congressman.“Their work to transform the old 14th Street Mall and the surrounding area has absolutely revived one of St. Louis’ most historic neighborhoods with new and renovated homes, new small businesses, beautiful streetscapes and a huge injection of hope and positive energy.”The award was earned for a two-block revitalization project along and adjacent to the old 14th Mall, a mostly abandoned and derelict strip which was once a thriving commercial area. Old North St. Louis’ $35 million investment included the redevelopment of 27 buildings; several new small businesses; infrastructure improvements; and according to the 2010 Census, a surprising 28% increase in neighborhood population. To learn more about the National Award for Smart Growth Achievement: https://www.epa.gov/smartgrowth/awards.htm
11.28.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY 11.28.11STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI ON CONGRESSMAN BARNEY FRANK’S RETIREMENTNOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-WASHINGTON, DC –?”I have respected and admired my good friend from Massachusetts since he first arrived in Congress. It has been a real pleasure to serve with him on the Financial Services Committee where I strongly supported and helped craft the landmark reform legislation that bears his name, Dodd-Frank.Congressman Frank is an exceptional legislator, a fearless advocate for his district and state, and a true champion for working-class families and seniors. He has also stood as a powerful beacon for real inclusion and equal opportunity for the GLBT community. His remarkable 32-year career in public service will leave a magnificent legacy as a leader who stood for justice, human rights, consumer protection, affordable housing and equality for all.I wish Congressman Frank many years of health, happiness and continued public advocacy as he returns to private life.” -30-
11.22.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday 11.22.11 Clay Announces $4 Million in New Grants to Support Stronger Families and Affordable HousingFathers Support Center, Beyond Housing, Better Family Life, Salvation Army Work to Strengthen Our Community-ST. LOUIS- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri was joined yesterday in St. Louis by community leaders and officials from the Federal Home Loan Bank as he announced $4 million in new grants to support stronger families and build affordable housing in low-income neighborhoods. His first stop was the Fathers Support Center, where he announced a $1.5 million demonstration grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to expand employment training and family responsibility classes for young men with children. “I want to personally thank President Obama and HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius for assisting my efforts to build up this community.” said the Congressman. “I was proud to support this grant for the Fathers Support Center. The work that you do here to mold young fathers into responsible parents is absolutely vital to the future of our community.”At the afternoon event, Congressman Clay was joined by community leaders from Normandy, Pine Lawn, Pagedale, Vinita Park, Hillsdale, the City of St. Louis and the Normandy School District to announced $2.5 million in Federal Home Loan Bank grants to build and repair affordable housing in low-income communities and provide housing for homeless veterans. “The $2.5 million in new grants we are announcing today will help seniors and low-income families rehab their homes and stay in the neighborhoods that they love,” said the Congressman. “We are also funding a program with the Salvation Army to directly combat homelessness among veterans. The brave men and women who have worn the uniform of this country should never find themselves on the streets without a safe place to call home. And I’m especially pleased that all this good work for our community is being funded without spending one tax dollar.”The following organizations were awarded Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines Affordable Housing Program grants:· Better Family Life, Inc. and Midwest BankCentreo $500,000 grant · Beyond Housing and Midwest BankCentre (2 grants)o $1.0 million grant · Beyond Housing and First National Bank of St. Louiso $500,000 grant · The Salvation Army and Heartland Banko $480,000 grant
11.22.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY 11.21.11 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI ON THE FAILURE OF THE SUPERCOMMITTEE TO PRODUCE A BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT ON DEFICIT REDUCTIONNOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-WASHINGTON, DC –“I am disappointed that the supercommittee could not rise above partisan divisions and just get this done for the American people. As I have said many times, the only responsible way to reduce the budget deficit and begin paying down the national debt is to spend less and bring in more revenue. Democrats on the supercommittee have backed that balanced approach from the beginning. Unfortunately, it appears that the Republican members refused to compromise from their rigid position of protecting tax breaks for the very wealthy. This was an opportunity to rise above our partisan differences and just do the right thing…the common sense thing, to finally get real about returning this government to fiscal responsibility. It is possible to cut waste, reduce unneeded spending, increase revenues…and accomplish all of that without threatening Social Security and Medicare. Congress can kick this problem down the road again, but it will come back, and it will be even harder to solve in the future.” -30-
11.18.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: FRIDAY 11.18.11 Congressmen Clay and Cleaver Ask Missouri Attorney General Koster to Examine Case of Wrongly-convicted ManMentally-ill Man Still Jailed 29 Years After False Confession– WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Wm. Lacy Clay (D-Missouri) and Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-Missouri) today asked Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster to consider freeing a St. Louis man wrongly convicted in 1982 and jailed for the past three decades.New information conclusively proves that George Allen, Jr. did not commit the crime, and that police withheld exculpatory evidence from both the prosecutor and the defense at the time of trial.“It appears that this is a grave injustice that can be remedied only through swift action by Attorney General Koster. He has the facts, he has the evidence, and he can make the decision to release Mr. Allen and return him to his family,” said Congressman Clay.A letter delivered today to Koster and signed by both Representatives details the case that has troubled the St. Louis community for decades, including new exculpatory DNA evidence, a “confession” full of critical mistakes about the crime and obtained through a very leading interrogation, and the prevalence of recent high-profile false confession cases in other jurisdictions.“We feel that it is important that you personally take a very careful look at this case,”the Congressmen write in their letter to Koster. “We want to make sure that you are aware of the importance of this matter to the local community, and the implications of this case for broader concerns of public safety and justice.”Mr. Allen has filed a writ of habeas corpus in Cole County Circuit Court. The case was brought to the Congressmen’s attention by Barry Scheck and The Innocence Project, a national litigation and public policy organization dedicated to exonerating wrongfully convicted people through DNA testing and reforming the criminal justice system to prevent future injustice. Since the organization’s founding, more than 250 people have been exonerated through DNA testing in the United States, including 17 who were at one time sentenced to death. Mr. Allen is also represented by local counsel Ameer Gado, Dan Harvath and Tim O’Connell from the St. Louis firm of Bryan Cave.The Attorney General’s office has promised to make a decision by November 30.”I hope that the Attorney General will make a quick decision, and come to the only conclusion possible: that Mr. Allen is actually innocent of this crime. Further, I am hopeful that he will release Mr. Allen speedily and get him home in time for the holidays,”said Congressman Clay.-30-
11.09.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, WED 11.9.11 Clay Forum at Washington U. Seeks Common Ground to Reform Nation’s Immigration PolicyCongressman Tells Students and Community Leaders That “Immigration is Not Just a Matter of Law; It’s Also a Test of Our Humanity”ST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri convened a ground-breaking forum yesterday on immigration at Washington University in St. Louis. The event brought together expert panelists from immigration law enforcement, immigration advocacy, and community stakeholders who work tirelessly to help immigrants become lawful and productive members of the St. Louis community. In remarks to the forum which attracted students, faculty and many community leaders, the Congressman said, “As a Member of Congress, it has always been painfully obvious to me that our immigration policy is broken, and we need to fix it. From my point of view, that means that immigrants must obey the law. And the American people have to find a way to help the twelve million undocumented immigrants come out of the shadows to become lawful and productive members of our society. In the final analysis, the question of immigration reform is not just a matter of law…it’s also about upholding the dignity of every human being in this country.” Mr. Clay continued, “Immigration is a very American story…and it’s also a great St. Louis story. Many of the issues we are facing today aren’t new. Previous generations of Americans have struggled with the same tensions and the same problems…and they found a path forward. I truly believe that the best way to find common ground that will lead us to a solution…is to start listening to each other.” Moderated by KMOX Radio host Charlie Brennan, the Clay Immigration Forum’s panelists included former INS Commissioner Gene McNary; Chester Moyer, United States Citizenship and Immigration Service – St. Louis Field Office District Director; Ken Schmitt, Chairman, Missouri-Kansas Chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association; Anna Crosslin, CEO & President, International Institute of St. Louis; Dr. Katherine Mathews, Director of Clinical Services, Casa de Salud; and Bob Fox, Board Chairman, Casa de Salud.
11.04.2011	Clay to Convene Major Forum on Immigration at Washington UniversityA Nation of Immigrants: Reflecting on Challenges & Potential Solutions TUESDAYNOVEMBER 8, 20112:00p.m. CDTWashington University in St. LouisJanuary Hall, Rm. 110 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 WHO:Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriCharles Brennan, KMOX Radio - moderatorHon. Gene McNary, Former INS CommissionerCharles Pratt, U.S. Citizenship & Immigration ServiceKen Schmitt, Chairman, American Immigration Lawyers Association MO-KS ChapterAnna Crosslin, CEO & President, International Institute of St. LouisKatherine Matthews, M.D. – Director of Clinical Services, Casa de SaludBob Fox, Chairman of the Board, Casa de Salud WHAT: LIVE MEDIA EVENT TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2011 2PM WHERE: WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY IN ST. LOUISJANUARY HALL, RM. 110 One Brookings Drive St. Louis, MO 63130 WHEN: MEDIA LOAD IN AND SET-UP BEGINS AT 1:30PM STORY: Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will convene a groundbreaking and frank discussion on the critical national issue of U.S. immigration policy. This bipartisan event, moderated by KMOX Radio host Charlie Brennan, will feature experts from immigration law enforcement, leading immigration advocates and community leaders. Please join us as we explore this vital issue for the nation and the St. Louis region. This program is presented in collaboration with the Washington University Student Union, the Association of Latin American Students and The Social Justice Center. Your reporters and camera crews are invited to attend. #30#
10.31.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY, 10.31.11Clay Swears In Inaugural Class of Missouri 1st District Congressional Youth CabinetST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has launched the Missouri 1st District Congressional Youth Cabinet in the historic Board of Aldermen chambers at St. Louis City Hall. The Congressman welcomed 48 outstanding high school students from across the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County. The Congressional Youth Cabinetwill advise Congressman Clay and his staff on key national and local issues that impact young people. In his remarks to the new group, Congressman Clay said, “This is not just a nice honor or a passive appointment. This is an exercise in real youth civic engagement. The new C.Y.C. will give me a direct link to the things that really matter to you and have an impact on your life. I need your voices, your energy, and your personal investment in this endeavor, to help me do my job better. You are going to discuss the most important issues facing our nation and our community.”This first of its kind effort in Missouri is an on-going process that will provide top students with a path to become advocates for the issues that matter to them.Members of the 2011-2012 Missouri 1st District Congressional Youth CabinetEmma Arrett Metro Academic & Classical High School Daniel Blash New Life Christian School Curtis Bo Clair Maplewood Richmond-Heights High School Alissa Booker Parkway Central High School Mariayna Bowden Soldan International Studies High School Isaac Caverly Pattonville Senior High School Destiny Crockett Clyde C. Miller Career Academy Miranda Curtis McCluer South - Berkeley High School Sydney Everett Metro Academic & Classical High School Molly Farmer North County Christian School Mariah Dawn Flores-Medina Maplewood Richmond-Heights High School Amber Hollowell Fern Ridge High School-Parkway Alternative HS Damund Huntley Parkway Central High School Nathaniel Jenkins Fern Ridge High School-Parkway Alternative HS Janelle Johnson McCluer South - Berkeley High School Da'Vione Johnson Soldan International Studies High School Malik Johnson University City High School Miya Jones Normandy High School Jevon Jones Sumner High School Erin Leventhal Pattonville Senior High School James Loomis III Ladue Horton Watkins High School Haley Mayenkar Parkway North High School Khadijah McCaine Central Visual & Performing Arts High School DeAndre Mitchell McKinley Classical Leadership Academy High School Tiarra Mitchell Sumner High School Devon Morton Hazelwood West High School Jordan \Mosley Cardinal Ritter College Prep High School Latayisah Mykelle Ousley-Pontos Rosati Kain High SchoolAshley Pace Cardinal Ritter College Prep High School Myles Peters Ladue Horton Watkins High School Nicholas Piazza Parkway North High School Anisa Rahaman Brentwood High School Jocelyn Redding Hazelwood Central High School Stephen Reed Ritenour High School David Rivera Brentwood High School Jonathan Segers Hazelwood Central High School Michel Simmons Gateway Institute of Technology High School Samuel Sims Gateway Institute of Technology High School Dean Sims, Jr. Parkway South High School Cameron Smith Clyde C. Miller Career Academy Dean Sterrett The Principia Teaira Terry Parkway South High School Brittney Watkins Hazelwood West High School Wendy Brianna Williams Central Visual & Performing Arts High School Jessica Wooldridge Ritenour High School Briona Works Normandy High School Erin Wright Mary Institute & St. Louis Country Day School -30-
10.29.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: SATURDAY 10.29.11STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI CONGRATULATING THE WORLD CHAMPION ST. LOUIS CARDINALS NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-ST. LOUIS, MO – "Congratulations to my World Series Champion St. Louis Cardinals. I am so proud to be their congressman. I have been cheering for them since I was a little boy, and winning this 11th World Championship in 2011 is absolutely historic. What a team and what a town!" -30-
10.18.2011	MEDIA CONTACTS:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 (MR. CLAY)SEAN BROWN (202) 225-2002 (MR. BARTON)FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday, 10.18.11Cardinals & Rangers Ready to Rumble on Capitol Hill TooClay & Barton Place Friendly Wager as Rally Squirrel Spreads World Series FeverWashington, DC – As preparations for Game One of the 2011 World Series reached a fevered pitch at Busch Memorial Stadium in downtown St. Louis, U.S. Representatives Joe Barton (R-TX) and Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO) are making a friendly wager on which team will win Major League Baseball’s World Championship.If the St. Louis Cardinals win, Congressman Barton will provide Congressman Clay’s staff with a case of Lone Star beer and BBQ Brisket from the famed Spring Creek Barbeque in Arlington, TX.If the Texas Rangers win, Congressman Clay will provide Congressman Barton’s staff with a case of Budweiser and deep dish pizza from the legendary St. Louis pizzeria, “Pi,” which is highly favored by President Obama.“St. Louis may have a better baseball pedigree that includes such characters as Dizzy Dean and the Gashouse Gang, but if Rep. Clay thinks his Cardinals are going to beat the Rangers he must be Dizzy,” said Congressman Barton.“The only thing that will make our first World Series victory taste any sweeter is a slice of deep dish pizza from Pi. However, if somehow the Cardinals are able to beat my hometown Rangers I will provide Mr. Clay and his staff with a case of Lone Star beer and BBQ brisket from Arlington, Texas’ famous Spring Creek Barbeque. The meal will be topped off with some of their wonderful sauce made from a secret recipe. It is a shame Mr. Clay and the Rally Squirrel will never get to taste it.”“My St. Louis Cardinals have won 10 World Championships and 18 National League Pennants,” said Congressman Clay.“Do they even play baseball in Texas? In the unlikely event that the Texas Rangers defeat my beloved St. Louis Cardinals in the 2011 World Series, I will be honored to provide Mr. Barton’s congressional staff with a case of Budweiser and deep dish pizza from famed St. Louis pizzeria, “Pi.” But, The Rally Squirrel and I are ready for some Texas BBQ…with extra sauce!Game One of the 2011 World Series is set for Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis on Wednesday night. -30-
10.15.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Saturday, 10.15.11Clay and U.S. Archivist Ferriero Dedicate New National Personnel Records Center in St. Louis CountyNational Archives & Records Administration Facility Will Safeguard Over 100 Million Records and Employ 850 Federal WorkersST. LOUIS – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay(D) Missouri,joined Archivist of the United States David Ferriero in North St. Louis County today to dedicate the new National Personnel Records Centerin Spanish Lake. The state of the art 520,000 square foot facility,located on Dunn Road, isoperated by the National Archives & Records Administration.Itemploys 850 federal workers and will safeguard over 100 million military and civilian personnel records.“I fought long and hard to locate this beautiful, state of the art facility in Spanish Lake, and to keep these 850 federal jobs in North County,” said the Congressman.“The project that we dedicate today is a huge victory for St. Louis County and our entire region.”The center will handle an average of 5,000 record requests per day from families, researchers and historians. The new federal facility in North County is already winning praise as an economic sparkplug for the area. “This investment in our infrastructure is already serving as a jobs and economic engine,” said Mr. Clay.“The $115 million construction budget for this building has already pumped $435 million into our local economy and it created 300 skilled construction jobs. That’s the kind of federal infrastructure investment we should be making all across this country.”Thefacility houses priceless military artifacts and recordsdatingfrom before the Civil War through 2001. Itis the largest National Archivesrepository outside of Washington, DC and is expected to greet visitors from across the United States. The National Personnel Records Centerholds more than 57 millionU.S. Armed Forces personnel files includingfamousveterans such asGeneral Dwight D. Eisenhower; General George S. Patton; President John F. Kennedy, Lt. Jackie Robinson and Private Elvis Presley.-30-
10.12.2011	MEDIA CONTACTS:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 (MR. CLAY)ANDREW STEVENS (202) 225-4572 (MS. MOORE)FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Wednesday, 10.12.11St. Louis vs. Milwaukee on Capitol Hill TooClay & Moore Place Friendly Wager as Rally Squirrel Warms Up for Game 3Washington, DC – As the National League Championship Series resumes tonight at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, U.S. Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO) are making a friendly wager on which team will win the pennant and advance to the World Series.If the St. Louis Cardinals win, Congresswoman Moore will provide Congressman Clay’s staff with a case of Budweiser and a selection of Milwaukee’s finest bratwurst.If the Milwaukee Brewers are victorious, Rep. Clay will provide Rep. Moore’s staff with a case of Miller High Life and deep dish pizza from Pi, a legendary St. Louis pizzeria favored by President Obama.“There is no doubt that the Brewers will win the next three games, but I need to call Brewers Manager Ron Roenicke right away and tell him just how dire this situation is,”Rep. Moore said. “I am loathe to purchase Budweiser. The only beer I ever buy or drink is High Life.” “The Cardinals are on a roll; Albert is awesome; Chris Carpenter is warming up; and the Rally Squirrel is ready, said Congressman Clay. And I am surprised to learn that they actually brew beer in Milwaukee!”Game Three of the National League Championship series is slated for 7:05p.m CDT this evening at Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis. The series is tied at one game apiece. -30-
10.04.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 10.4.11 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING ANNOUNCEMENT OF CONGRESSMAN JERRY COSTELLO’S RETIREMENTNOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-WASHINGTON, DC – "Congressman Jerry Costello is a great friend and a tremendous legislator. Our entire region has benefited from his strong and effective leadership for decades. He has always been a wonderful colleague and someone who I worked closely with on regional projects. Jerry is a wonderful public servant, and an even better friend...I will truly miss him." -30-
09.22.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Wednesday, 9.21.11Clay Announces $1.7 Million Commerce Department Grant to Expand Metropolitan Education and Training Center Economic Development Administration Invests to Spur Job Creation in St. Louis RegionWashington, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the U.S. Department of Commerce has awarded a $1.7 million grant to expand the Metropolitan Education and Training Center in Wellston. The center, located at the former Wagner Electric Plant in Wellston, Missouri, is one of the nation’s leading centers for green job training and has established the acclaimed “Pathways Out of Poverty” program that is training and re-trained unemployed workers for 21st Century jobs.“This is a real boost to the MET Center’s ongoing mission of job training that our community urgently needs,” said the Congressman. “The $1.795 million investment by the Commerce Department’s Economic Development Authority will allow the MET Center to expand classrooms and install a new wet lab to support job training in life sciences and biotechnology…two of the St. Louis region’s most vital economic growth sectors.”The grant application was submitted by St. Louis County’s Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority. The MET Center is a one-stop, comprehensive workforce development initiative that serves unemployed and underemployed individuals in the greater St. Louis region.EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds.This investment was approved by John R. Fernandez, Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development.
09.16.2011	Clay Cosponsors Bill to Give Postal Service 90-day Extension of Pre-Payment of Retired Employee Healthcare BenefitsCongress Will Consider Steps to Restore Profitability While Maintaining Universal Mail ServiceWashington, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, joined Ranking Oversight Committee Member Elijah E. Cummings (D) Maryland, and ten of his House Democratic colleagues to co-sponsor legislation that would provide the U.S. Postal Service with a 90-day extension on its pre-payment to the retired postal employee health benefit fund. The bill, H.R. 2884, would postpone a $5.5 billion prepayment to the Postal Service’s retiree health benefits fund that is currently due on September 30th. “Transforming the U.S. Postal Service into a viable business model for the 21st Century is absolutely essential,” said the Congressman. “This bill gives Congress some time to consider positive steps that will put the postal system back on stronger financial footing while maintaining our historic commitment to universal mail service for every American.” Under the 2006 Postal Accountability Enhancement Act, the U.S. Postal Service is currently required to make accelerated annual payments to fully fund its anticipated retiree health care costs. That mandate creates an enormous cash-flow crunch and makes the postal service less competitive. The postal service has already paid more than $42 billion to the U.S. Treasury toward its employees’future healthcare costs. “The truth is that in addition to a decline in first-class mail volume, part of the reason that the Postal Service is experiencing huge financial losses is that previous Congresses imposed costly mandates that no other federal agency must meet, “ said Mr. Clay. “Our bill will ensure that the Postal Service and Congress have sufficient time to work together on comprehensive legislation to improve the Postal Service’s long-term viability.” Temporarily suspending this prepayment will not affect the health care provided to postal retirees and will not disrupt the daily delivery of mail or the operations of post offices or mail processing facilities. The U.S. Postal Service currently handles an average of 563 million pieces of mail each day, and it delivers mail to over 151 million addresses. -30-
09.08.2011	THE AMERICAN JOBS ACT1. Tax Cuts to Help America’s Small Businesses Hire and Grow? Cutting the payroll tax in half for 98 percent of businesses: The President’s plan will cut in half the taxespaid by businesses on their first $5 million in payroll, targeting the benefit to the 98 percent of firms thathave payroll below this threshold.? A complete payroll tax holiday for added workers or increased wages: The President’s plan will completelyeliminate payroll taxes for firms that increase their payroll by adding new workers or increasing the wagesof their current worker (the benefit is capped at the first $50 million in payroll increases).? Extending 100% expensing into 2012: This continues an effective incentive for new investment.? Reforms and regulatory reductions to help entrepreneurs and small businesses access capital.2. Putting Workers Back on the Job While Rebuilding and Modernizing America? A “Returning Heroes” hiring tax credit for veterans: This provides tax credits from $5,600 to $9,600 toencourage the hiring of unemployed veterans.? Preventing up to 280,000 teacher layoffs, while keeping cops and firefighters on the job.? Modernizing at least 35,000 public schools across the country, supporting new science labs, Internet-readyclassrooms and renovations at schools across the country, in rural and urban areas.? Immediate investments in infrastructure and a bipartisan National Infrastructure Bank, modernizing ourroads, rail, airports and waterways while putting hundreds of thousands of workers back on the job.? A New “Project Rebuild”, which will put people to work rehabilitating homes, businesses and communities,leveraging private capital and scaling land banks and other public-private collaborations.? Expanding access to high-speed wireless as part of a plan for freeing up the nation’s spectrum.3. Pathways Back to Work for Americans Looking for Jobs.? The most innovative reform to the unemployment insurance program in 40 years: As part of an extension ofunemployment insurance to prevent 5 million Americans looking for work from losing their benefits, thePresident’s plan includes innovative work-based reforms to prevent layoffs and give states greater flexibilityto use UI funds to best support job-seekers, including:o Work-Sharing: UI for workers whose employers choose work-sharing over layoffs.o A new “Bridge to Work” program: The plan builds on and improves innovative state programswhere those displaced take temporary, voluntary work or pursue on-the-job training.o Innovative entrepreneurship and wage insurance programs: States will also be empowered toimplement wage insurance to help reemploy older workers and programs that make it easier forunemployed workers to start their own businesses.? A $4,000 tax credit to employers for hiring long-term unemployed workers.? Prohibiting employers from discriminating against unemployed workers when hiring.? Expanding job opportunities for low-income youth and adults through a fund for successful approaches forsubsidized employment, innovative training programs and summer/year-round jobs for youth.4. Tax Relief for Every American Worker and Family? Cutting payroll taxes in half for 160 million workers next year: The President’s plan will expand the payrolltax cut passed last year to cut workers payroll taxes in half in 2012 – providing a $1,500 tax cut to thetypical American family, without negatively impacting the Social Security Trust Fund.? Allowing more Americans to refinance their mortgages at today’s near 4 percent interest rates, which canput more than $2,000 a year in a family’s pocket.5. Fully Paid for as Part of the President’s Long-Term Deficit Reduction Plan. To ensure that the American JobsAct is fully paid for, the President will call on the Joint Committee to come up with additional deficit reductionnecessary to pay for the Act and still meet its deficit target. The President will, in the coming days, release adetailed plan that will show how we can do that while achieving the additional deficit reduction necessary to meetthe President’s broader goal of stabilizing our debt as a share of the economy.
09.08.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 9.8.11STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ADDRESS TO A JOINT SESSION OF CONGRESS ON THE AMERICAN JOBS ACTNOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-WASHINGTON, DC – “Tonight, President Obama laid out a common sense plan that will put millions of Americans back to work. It is based on good ideas that both Democrats and Republicans have supported previously. The plan is smart, it’s targeted where it will do the most good, and it will be completely paid for by additional spending cuts.The President’s plan cuts taxes on small businesses & individual taxpayers, and it invests in urgently needed infrastructure projects…without adding one dime to the deficit.My Republican friends in the House Majority have a simple choice…they can either put their country first, or they can engage in more partisan nonsense.But the American people have run out of patience.They don’t want more political games in Washington that pander to the most extreme political voices.They want positive action now.President Obama provided that kind of leadership tonight, and we should get this done immediately in a bipartisan way.” -30-
08.24.2011	ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCHGuest commentary: Our brother's keeper By William Lacy Clay | Wednesday, August 24, 2011Recently, I was fortunate to join with some of my colleagues from the Congressional Black Caucus on a preview tour of the new national monument commemorating the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.President Barack Obama will dedicate the new King Memorial on Sunday, which is also the 48th anniversary of Dr. King's historic "I Have a Dream Speech" during the 1963 March on Washington.Situated on the National Mall, Dr. King's magnificent likeness looks out on our nation's capitol with a powerful gaze that transcends generations to remind us that while his dream transformed America, much work remains to be done in order to finish the mission that he ultimately gave his life for.With the beautiful symmetry of history, our first African-American president will deliver the keynote address at the dedication. I know that President Obama and the rest of my fellow African-American national elected leaders are ever mindful of all the brave souls who came before us and upon whose shoulders we still stand today.I recall Dr. King's stirring speech on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial from the perspective of a 7-year old, who gathered with my family and our neighbors in the backyard of our home on Clemons Place in St. Louis.My parents had used the longest extension cord we could find to set up the TV outside, so I knew that something big was about to happen.Even as a very young man, Dr. King's words moved me, and I knew that because of him, our country and the entire world would never be the same.For my family, the civil rights movement wasn't just something that we watched on the evening news. We grew up in the struggle, and I was privileged to be old enough to witness history myself.On the very same day that Dr. King delivered his historic speech in 1963, my father, former U.S. Rep. Bill Clay, was leading the landmark Jefferson Bank civil rights protests in St. Louis.That courageous action, which included his arrest and false incarceration for more than 100 days, lasted for many months.But in the end, my father and his brave colleagues were vindicated, the chains of segregation and employment discrimination were shattered in St. Louis, and he went on to become the first African-American elected to Congress from Missouri.I thought about all of that history as our group took in the power and beauty of Dr. King's memorial.Then I looked over at my good friends who were experiencing this profound moment with me: Rep. John Lewis of Georgia; Congressman John Conyers of Michigan; Rep. Jim Clyburn of South Carolina; Rep. Charles Rangel of New York; the Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver of Missouri; and one of Dr. King's closest aides, the Rev. Jesse Jackson Sr.All of them either worked directly with or were close followers of Dr. King. They displayed immense courage in the face of brutal racial hatred and violence, and, collectively, they have rendered decades of service to our nation. As we looked at Dr. King's likeness, we didn't say much, because the moment was far too powerful for mere words.While standing in Dr. King's shadow, it occurred to me that his memorial is the only federal monument along the Mall that does not commemorate a U.S. president or a war.And that may just be God's way of reminding us what Dr. King was really all about: not the power of armies or political leaders, but the power of love, non-violence, brotherhood and the relentless pursuit of justice; the power of love as the only antidote to hate; the power of the truth in the face of ignorance and intolerance; and the power that average Americans still have when we stand up and demand that our country must deliver on all the promises that our Constitution makes, to each of us.In the end, if we truly want to honor Dr. King, this beautiful memorial is not enough.The highest honor we could pay him would be to renew our personal commitment as people of faith to stand up against injustice wherever we see it, regardless of the political mood of the moment, and to recall, as Dr. King reminded us, that we truly are our brother's keeper.U.S. Rep. William Lacy Clay is a Democrat from St. Louis.
08.12.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Friday, 8.12.11Clay Announces $2 Million Federal Transportation Grant to Begin Engineering and Planning for the Gateway Arch Connector Big Win for Downtown St. Louis Will Spur Arch Grounds RedevelopmentWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial (the Gateway Arch) a $2 million grant to begin engineering and planning for the long-awaited pedestrian connector that will link the Arch grounds with downtown St. Louis. “This is a big win for downtown St. Louis that I was proud to support,” said the Congressman. “We have been talking about building a lid to connect the Arch grounds to the rest of downtown for more than two decades. This $2 million grant will fund the first step in that long-anticipated project. It will also give the entire Arch grounds redevelopment project a big boost. As the Congressman who has the honor of representing the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial in Washington, I will do everything in my power to help provide the resources needed to complete the project in time for the 50th anniversary in 2015."The $2 million DOT grant was awarded under the Public Lands Highways Discretionary (PLHD) Program. The (PLHD) provides funding for transportation planning, research, and engineering and construction of, highways, roads, parkways, and transit facilities that are within, adjacent to, Federal public lands, including national parks, refuges, forests, recreation areas, and grasslands. The program is administered by the Federal Highway Administrations Federal Lands Highway Office. -30-
08.04.2011	HUFFINGTON POST BLACK VOICES INAUGURAL EDITION, 8.4.11America's Agenda Is Jobs Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay(D) Missouri, is a leading member of the Congressional Black CaucusAmerica's Agenda Is Jobs 8/4/11I am so pleased to be part of HuffPost Black Voices inaugural edition. Over the last decade, digital media has transformed how we connect about policy, politics, culture and what our national priorities should be. This new blog space offers African-Americans a powerful tool to connect with each other and the broader audience around the world who cares about what really matters to our community. If my 28 years in public service have taught me anything, it's that our issues are never just about us, they're really about everyone. We are part of a broader, much more complex American story. When we hurt, America hurts. And what elevates us lifts up the entire nation.Nowhere is that more evident than the urgent need to focus all of our attention on growing jobs and restoring our economic security. While the overall unemployment rate hovers around 9 percent, more than 16 percent of African-Americans are looking for work. Much pain is behind those numbers... including a failed system of urban education, too little investment in worker retraining, a tax policy that still rewards corporations who outsource good American jobs overseas, and the very real legacy of inequality and exclusion that perpetuates a lack of diversity in the economic life of our nation.In Congress, we have just lived through another episode of bad political theater... starring the Republican Tea Party. Instead of approving a clean debt ceiling increase and focusing on jobs, which is exactly what the Congressional Black Caucus advocated for, and what a majority of the American people actually supported, the Republican leadership in the House allowed a small group of extremists to hijack the legislative process and take our nation to the brink of default.Reaching the compromise that avoided default, preserved our AAA credit rating and cut spending was messy, but it was a necessary first-step.In the coming months, we will ask wealthy Americans who have done extremely well... even during this recession, to put something in the pot too. We can't balance this budget on seniors, working people, at-risk children, and minorities who have borne the worst of this recession. This is a time for shared sacrifice by all.I support President Obama's pro-jobs; pro-growth agenda to help America out innovate, out educate, and out build the rest of the world. When Congress returns, all of us should focus on how to simultaneously make investments that are going to grow jobs while we put everything on the table to reduce spending in an honest and open way. In everything that we do, we need to remember the dignity of work. Nothing is more important than being able to look in the mirror and know that you can take care of your family. That's what we all should be fighting for.As the president said earlier this week, the American people's agenda is to get back to work. It's not a Democratic or Republican agenda, it's an American agenda. We have to put people back to work. And that's also the fastest way to close the budget deficit.But we also need to increase revenues, because anyone who tells you that we can balance the budget with spending cuts alone has not mastered simple arithmetic, or they just aren't telling you the truth.That means closing loopholes, ending tax dodges for big oil, hedge fund managers, and the most fortunate among us, and allowing the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans to expire at the close of 2012.The United States is also in dire need of a restoration policy that invests in rebuilding our infrastructure and competitiveness. As we wind down the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, it's time to do some nation building right here at home by putting the peace dividend to work to create jobs.We can begin by reforming federal procurement policies to stop rewarding corporations who ship jobs off-shore with federal contracts, instead of hiring right here at home.Our nation also needs a "Build America Bonds" program to leverage public dollars to strengthen the private sector and grow jobs by rebuilding America's schools, hospitals, transit systems, highways, the power grid and other vital infrastructure improvements.A portion of the peace dividend should also be used to fortify universities, community colleges and trade schools who will play a vital role in helping retrain workers for the skills that our economy needs now and in the future.Finally, we have to remember that the most powerful tool we have to create jobs and restore America's economic security is the talent, creative power and strength of our people.As we fight to create jobs and tackle the deficit, we also need to maximize our most valuable asset... the human potential of every American.
08.01.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 8.1.11 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING COMPROMISE AGREEMENT TO REDUCE THE DEFICIT AND RAISE THE DEBT LIMITNOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-WASHINGTON, DC – “No one likes everything in this bill, but the country needed to raise the debt limit…that’s why I voted for it. It avoids default, maintains the AAA credit rating, and makes responsible spending cuts to both domestic programs and the defense department.The deal also creates a firewall that protects Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security benefits, which is absolutely necessary.I would have much preferred a larger package of spending cuts, new revenues and real tax fairness.The process of getting to this point with the legislation was messy, but I think it was necessary as a first-step.But the second part of this compromise…the special committee, is vital.That bipartisan team, which will be appointed within the next two weeks, must continue to put everything on the table. And wealthy Americans, who have done extremely well…even during this recession, need to put something in the pot too. We can’t balance this budget on seniors, working people, and children. We also need to increase revenues. That means closing loopholes, ending tax dodges for big oil, hedge fund managers, and the most fortunate among us, and allowing the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans to expire at the close of 2012.The progressive wing of my party is angry, and the right wing of the GOP, especially the Republican Tea Party, is furious. So that means that the compromise landed somewhere in the middle.Finally, we need to remember that as we wind down the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, it’s time to do some nation building right here at home.The United States is in dire need of a restoration policy that invests in rebuilding our infrastructure and competitiveness. We can reduce the deficit and rebuild our economic security, but to accomplish that, we still have to invest in people.We need to invest part of the peace dividend to maximize the human potential of unemployed Americans who have great skills and abilities.Jobs are a much bigger problem than the deficit, and we can’t lose sight of that.That will require targeted spending to support modernized transportation, public education at universities, community colleges, and trade schools; and transforming our energy sector to finally free the United States from our dependency on foreign oil.So as we tackle the deficit, we also need to maximize our most valuable asset…the human potential of every American.”-30-
07.26.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Tuesday, 7.26.11Clay Announces $956,271 Grant to St. Patrick Center to Help Homeless VeteransVA Launches New Prevention Initiative to Serve 22,000 Veteran Families at Risk of HomelessnessWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri was pleased to join with the Veterans Administration today to announce a $956,271 grant to the St. Patrick Center in St. Louis as part of the new Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. “Congratulations to the St. Patrick Center for being one of the first non-profit organizations in the nation to be selected for this new homeless prevention program,”said the Congressman. “I want to personally thank President Obama and VA Secretary Eric Shinseki for their strong support of our community’s efforts to lift up all those who have served our nation and prevent homelessness among Veterans before it happens.” "This new homeless prevention program will provide additional comprehensive support to Veterans who have served honorably, and now find themselves in a downward spiral toward despair and homelessness, “said VA Secretary Eric K. Shinseki. "This program expands our capacity to act before a Veteran becomes homeless and to target the problem of family homelessness.Through the SSVF Program, the VA aims to improve very low-income Veteran families' housing stability. The St. Patrick Center will provide supportive services to at-risk Veteran families, many of whom live in or are transitioning to permanent housing. They hope to help at least 250 at-risk Veterans and their families by providing supportive outreach; case management; assistance in obtaining VA benefits; and help in obtaining and coordinating other public benefits. The St. Patrick Center will also have the ability to make temporary financial assistance payments on behalf of Veterans for purposes such as rent payments, utility payments, security deposits and moving costs.The $956,271 grant to the St. Patrick Center was awarded through a competitive competition among 400 applicants from across the a nation.-30-
07.25.2011	MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, 7.25.11Clay Says Deal Must Not Cut Medicare and Social Security BenefitsJoins 80 Progressive Caucus Members in Letter to Pelosi, ObamaWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined with eighty members of the House Progressive Caucus as signatories to a letter directed to Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, and copied to President Obama, insisting that any compromise package to reduce the deficit and raise the debt ceiling must not harm basic Medicare and Social Security benefits.“This is a time for shared sacrifice, not devastating cuts to seniors and our most vulnerable citizens. If we’re serious about reducing the deficit and raising the debt ceiling in a responsible way, then we have to cut spending and increase revenue…especially from those wealthy individuals and corporations who have accumulated great wealth while working families and seniors on fixed incomes have suffered great hardships,” said the Congressman. “I am pleased to join with my Progressive Caucus colleagues to send this strong message that any negotiation must protect the vital interests of seniors, children and the disabled. That means that basic Medicare and Social Security benefits must not be bargained away.” Leaders of the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Asian Pacific American have also signed the letter which says that middle-class families “have sacrificed enough, and a deal that pushes the American Dream further out of reach, in order to pay for extending tax breaks for the rich and corporations, is simply unacceptable.”“We are united as Democrats in saying that it’s time to stand up to the Republican hostage-taking. We will not be forced to vote for a “final agreement” that we do not agree to -- and that the American people do not agree to. We stand united with you in insisting that benefit cuts for working families, our seniors, children, and people with disabilities must be off the table, and we stand united with you in fighting for millions of Americans who need Democrats to be firmly on their side,” the letter continues.Signatories include:CPC Co-Chairs Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva and Keith Ellison, along with Reps. Baca, Karen Bass, Bordallo, Brown, Carson, Christiansen, Chu, Yvette Clarke, Hansen Clarke, Clay, Cleaver, Cohen, Conyers, Critz, Cummings, Danny Davis, DeFazio, DeLauro, Deutch, Doggett, Edwards, Farr, Fattah, Filner, Frank, Fudge, Garamendi, Al Green, Gutierrez, Hahn, Hinchey, Hirono, Holmes Norton, Holt, Jesse Jackson Jr., Sheila Jackson Lee, Hank Johnson, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Kaptur, Kildee, Kucinich, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, Lofgren, Lynch, Maloney, Markey, McCollum, McDermott, McGovern, Moore, Nadler, Napolitano, Oliver, Pallone, Payne, Pingree, Rangel, Reyes, Richardson, Richmond, Rothman, Roybal-Allard, Tim Ryan, Sablan, Schakowsky, Serrano, Stark, Sutton, Bennie Thompson, Tierney, Tonko, Towns, Waters, Waxman, Frederica Wilson, Woolsey, and Wu.The full text of the letter is below.Dear Leader Pelosi,We write in strong agreement with your unwavering defense of the Democratic programs that form the bedrock of America’s middle and working classes, and which are overwhelmingly popular.On July 7, you made very clear that “We are not going to balance the budget on the backs of America’s seniors, women and people with disabilities” and that “we do not support cuts in benefits” for vital safety-net programs. We agree completely. Especially in these tough economic times, we should not be cutting Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid benefits that millions of our constituents paid into and depend on. Such benefit cuts should be off the table in current debt discussions.Our Republican colleagues should be embarrassed by their insistence that unless Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid benefits are cut, the nation will default on its debts. Middle-class families have sacrificed enough, and a deal that pushes the American Dream further out of reach, in order to pay for extending tax breaks for the rich and corporations, is simply unacceptable.We are united as Democrats in saying that it’s time to stand up to the Republican hostage-taking. We will not be forced to vote for a “final agreement” that we do not agree to -- and that the American people do not agree to.We stand united with you in insisting that benefit cuts for working families, our seniors, children, and people with disabilities must be off the table, and we stand united with you in fighting for millions of Americans who need Democrats to be firmly on their side.-30-
07.19.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 7.19.11 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING HOUSE REPUBLICAN’S “CUT, CAP & END MEDICARE BILL.”NOTE: The following, in its entirety, is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-WASHINGTON, DC – “The Republican leadership in the House has lost control of their own caucus. We are only two weeks away from destroying the nation’s AAA credit rating, throwing the world economy back into a recession, and devastating the value of every dollar in circulation.And yet, instead of acting like adults and doing what common sense requires, the House is wasting time with more GOP Tea Party theater…performed by members who are not burdened by math or other inescapable facts.This GOP Tea Party legislation would take a chain saw to Medicare, Social Security, Medicaid, job training, community healthcare and many other essential priorities for the working families of this country.It is total nonsense, a complete waste of time and tax dollars, and totally irresponsible.Democrats are calling on Republicans to act quickly to enact a large agreement to reduce the deficit and ensure America pays its bills.Republicans are pressing forward with an extreme proposal that increases our chances of default.The President and our Democratic leadership are offered $3 dollars in spending cuts for every $1 dollar in new revenues…without raising taxes on 98% of Americans.That is a deal that responsible Republicans should join us in enacting without delay.If we’re serious about putting our fiscal house in order, then we need to do three things simultaneously….cut spending, increase revenues and put everything on the table in a responsible way.Playing chicken with the full faith and credit of the United States is totally irresponsible.This is not about politics; this is about carrying out our essential responsibilities.It’s time for Congress to act like adults and just get this done.” -30-
07.13.2011	ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH, 7.13.11Guest commentary: Time to get real on debt negotiations By William Lacy Clay, Member of CongressAs Congress and the nation continue to hurtle toward the critical Aug. 2 deadline for raising the debt limit, I am amazed that while the clock is ticking on America's AAA credit rating and the viability of our entire economy, some of my colleagues continue to cling to an alternative reality that is not burdened by mathematics or other inescapable facts.As the ranking member on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy, let me simply state the hard truth: To get deficit spending and our national debt under control, we need to do three things simultaneously: cut spending, increase revenue and have the courage to put everything on the table as we accomplish these tasks in a balanced and responsible way.If we fail to act, the damage to our still-recovering economy and world financial markets would be massive, and the unintended negative consequences could be catastrophic.Consumers and businesses would face soaring interest rates when they least can afford them. U.S. Treasury notes, the gold standard of guaranteed investments, would lose their credibility. And with that default, the U.S. dollar, which is the world's reserve currency, would be damaged beyond calculation. All of the progress we have made economically over the last 15 months could be lost in a matter of days. And the United States would enter uncharted financial waters with many unforeseen dangers.As a bipartisan fiscal commission recommended, the United States needs to adopt a $4 trillion fiscal stabilization package over the next 10 to 12 years. That plan would cut domestic spending, trim military expenditures, close tax loopholes that give away billions to big oil and the wealthiest few, and find real savings in Medicare and Medicaid.Democrats have proposed a 3-1 formula that would allow for $3 in spending cuts for every $1 in new revenue. So we have met our Republican colleagues more than half way in this painful process. We even are willing to discuss significant savings in Medicare and Medicaid as long as essential benefits for seniors and the most vulnerable are preserved.Some spending cuts should be easy to agree on.• Ending subsidies for big oil companies who are reaping enormous profits from American consumers would raise $40 billion over the next decade.• Changing an IRS tax rule that applies mostly to oil companies would generate $72 billion.• Ending corporate tax breaks for private jets would raise $3 billion.• Forcing hedge fund managers to pay their fair share of income taxes would raise $20 billion.• Eliminating tax credits for ethanol and ending unnecessary agricultural subsidies would save $116 billion in 10 years.• Selling off unused or underused federal buildings would save $24 billion.We can accomplish these and many more domestic spending cuts without the misguided Republican cuts to food safety inspections and nutritional support for women and at-risk children.Democrats also are committed to restoring tax fairness.We have proposed limiting the total value of deductions for wealthy taxpayers who earn more than $500,000 per year. That change alone would bring in an extra $100 billion over the next decade.But changes to the tax code and trimming domestic spending will not be enough. If we're serious about this mission, then the Defense Department needs to put its cards on the table, too.The United States has spent $1.2 trillion in Iraq and Afghanistan over the last 10 years on two wars that were charged on the national credit card with no provision to pay for them.Thankfully, our combat role has ended in Iraq and the draw-down from Afghanistan will begin this month. The peace dividend from ending those conflicts can have a major impact on closing the deficit without endangering national security. But these savings are just the beginning of cutting the fat at the Pentagon.Eliminating the purchase of obsolete spare parts for all branches of the armed services would save $369 billion in the next decade.Fully implementing the reforms recommended by the bipartisan Defense Acquisition Panel would save taxpayers $270 billion in 10 years.Realigning our nuclear arsenal to meet 21st-century threats, instead of preparing to refight the Cold War would save $113 billion.And history shows that reducing wasteful defense spending while maintaining the strongest military in the world can stimulate the economy in a powerful way.Finally, a substantial bipartisan compromise on deficit reduction and raising the debt limit would generate a confidence dividend that is sorely needed across the country.We need to prove to the American people that when their families, their jobs and their children's future are at stake, Congress has the courage to put politics aside and just get this done. The time for excuses is over. The time for acting like adults is now.U.S. Rep. William Lacy Clay is a Democrat from St. Louis.
07.08.2011	MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Cosponsors House Resolution Affirming U.S. Commitment to a Negotiated Settlement of Israeli-Palestinian ConflictRestates Opposition to Unilateral Declaration of a Palestinian StateWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised passage of H.Res 268, which was approved in the U.S. House by a vote of 407-6. The measure, which Mr. Clay cosponsored, strongly affirms the U.S. commitment to a negotiated settlement of the Israel-Palestinian conflict and rejects any effort to unilaterally declare a Palestinian State.“America’s national interest is best served by our continued, unshakable commitment to the State of Israel as a Jewish, democratic state…living side-by-side with a homeland for the Palestinian people as determined by a negotiated settlement,” said the Congressman. Mr. Clay continued, “As President Obama said on May 19th: ‘For the Palestinians, efforts to delegitimize Israel will end in failure. Symbolic actions to isolate Israel at the United Nations in September won’t create an independent state. Palestinian leaders will not achieve peace or prosperity if Hamas insists on a path of terror and rejection. And Palestinians will never realize their independence by denying the right of Israel to exist.’ The President is absolutely correct. I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their overwhelming bipartisan support of this resolution that I was proud to co-sponsor.”===Highlights of U.S. House Resolution 268-Reaffirms strong support for a negotiated solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict resulting in two states, a democratic, Jewish state of Israel and a viable, democratic Palestinian state, living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition. -States a firm belief that any Palestinian unity government must publicly and formally forswear terrorism, accept Israel's right to exist, and reaffirm previous agreements made with Israel.-Reiterates strong U.S. opposition to any attempt to establish or seek recognition of a Palestinian state outside of an agreement negotiated between Israel and the Palestinians urges Palestinian leaders to:(A) Ensure that any Palestinian government will seek peace with Israel;(B) Cease all efforts at circumventing the negotiation process, including through a unilateral declaration of statehood or by seeking recognition of a Palestinian state from other nations or the United Nations;(C) Resume direct negotiations with Israel immediately and without preconditions; and(D) Take appropriate measures to counter incitement to violence and fulfill all prior Palestinian commitments, including dismantling the terrorist infrastructure embodied in Hamas;-Supports the Administration's opposition to a unilateral declaration of a Palestinian state and its use of the veto at the United Nations Security Council on February 18, 2011, the most recent example of a longstanding United States policy of vetoing unbalanced United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Israel and the Israeli-Palestinian peace process; -Calls upon the Administration to announce that it will veto any resolution on Palestinian statehood that comes before the United Nations Security Council which is not a result of agreements reached between Israel and the Palestinians and calls upon the Administration to lead a diplomatic effort to oppose a unilateral declaration of a Palestinian state and to oppose recognition of a Palestinian state by other nations, within the United Nations, and in other international forums prior to achievement of a final agreement between Israel and the Palestinians; -Affirms that Palestinian efforts to circumvent direct negotiations and pursue recognition of statehood prior to agreement with Israel will harm United States-Palestinian relations and will have serious implications for the United States assistance programs for the Palestinians and the Palestinians Authority; -Supports the position taken by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on April 22, 2009, that the United States `will not deal with or in any way fund a Palestinian government that includes Hamas unless and until Hamas has renounced violence, recognized Israel and agreed to follow the previous obligations of the Palestinian Authority;-Reaffirms the United States statutory requirement precluding assistance to a Palestinian Authority that includes Hamas unless that Authority and all its ministers publicly accept Israel's right to exist and all prior agreements and understandings with the United States and Israel.
07.08.2011	POLITICOFor serious debt, deficit talks By Rep. Wm. Lacy ClayJuly 8, 2011As Congress and the nation continue to hurdle toward the critical Aug. 2 deadline for raising the debt limit, it is amazing that even as the clock is ticking on America’s AAA credit rating and the viability of our entire economy, some of my colleagues continue to cling to an alternative reality, unburdened by mathematics or other inescapable facts.Let me state the hard truth: To get deficit spending and our national debt under control, we need to do three things simultaneously — cut spending, increase revenues and have the courage to put everything on the table as we accomplish these tasks in a responsible way.If we fail to act, the damage to our still-recovering economy and world financial markets would be massive. The unintended negative consequences could be catastrophic.Consumers and businesses would face soaring interest rates at a time when they can least afford them. Treasury notes, the gold standard of guaranteed investments, would lose their credibility. With that default, the dollar, which is the world’s reserve currency, would be damaged beyond calculation.All the progress that we have made economically over the last 15 months could be lost in a matter of days. The United States would enter uncharted financial waters with many unforeseen dangers.As the bipartisan fiscal commission recommended in their report, the United States needs to adopt a $4 trillion fiscal stabilization package over the next 10-12 years. That plan would cut domestic spending; trim military expenditures; close tax loopholes that give away billions to big oil and the wealthiest few, and find real savings in Medicare and Medicaid.Democrats have already proposed a 3-1 formula that would allow for $3 in spending cuts for every $1 in new revenue. So we have met our Republican colleagues more than half-way in this painful process. We are even willing to discuss significant savings in Medicare and Medicaid — as long as essential benefits for seniors and the most vulnerable are preserved.Some spending cuts should be easy to agree on. For example, ending subsidies for big oil companies who are now reaping enormous profits from U.S. consumers would likely raise $40 billion over the next decade.Changing an Internal Revenue Service tax rule that applies mostly to oil companies could generate another $72 billion.As President Barack Obama has said, ending corporate tax breaks for private jets would raise another $3 billion.Forcing hedge fund managers to pay their fair-share of income taxes would raise another $20 billion.Eliminating tax credits for ethanol and ending unnecessary agricultural subsidies would save $116 billion over the next 10 years. Selling off unused or under-used federal buildings would save another $24 billion.We can accomplish these and many more domestic spending cuts without the misguided Republican cuts to food safety inspections and nutritional support for women and at-risk children.Democrats are also committed to restoring tax fairness.We have proposed limiting the total value of deductions for wealthy taxpayers who earn more than $500,000 per year. That change alone would bring in an extra $100 billion over the next decade.But changes to the tax code and trimming domestic spending will not be enough. If we’re serious about this mission, then the Defense Department needs to put their cards on the table too.The United States has spent $1.2 trillion in Iraq and Afghanistan over the last 10 years — two wars charged on the national credit card with no provision to pay for them.Thankfully, our combat role has ended in Iraq and the draw-down from Afghanistan will begin this month. The peace dividend from ending those conflicts can have a major effect on closing the deficit — without endangering national security. But these savings are just the beginning of cutting the fat at the Pentagon.Eliminating the purchase of obsolete spare parts for all branches of the Armed Services could save $369 billion over the next decade.Fully implementing the reforms recommended by the bipartisan Defense Acquisition Panel would save taxpayers $270 billion over the next 10 years.Realigning our nuclear arsenal to meet 21st century threats, instead of preparing to re-fight the Cold War would save $113 billion.And history shows that reducing wasteful defense spending while maintaining the strongest military in the world can stimulate the economy in a powerful way.In the 1990s, many military programs were reduced and the U.S. economy added more than 20 million private sector jobs. Part of that job growth became possible because the federal deficit came down, interest rates stayed low and small businesses with new technologies were able to expand more easily.Lower defense spending would also free up money and talent to invest in rebuilding America’s critical infrastructure — a spending priority that makes us more competitive, creates skilled jobs and positions the United States to excel in the world economy.A substantial bipartisan compromise on deficit reduction and raising the debt limit would also generate a confidence dividend sorely needed across the country.We need to prove to the American people that when their families, their jobs and their children’s future are at stake, Congress has the courage to put politics aside and just get this done.The time for excuses is over. The time for acting like adults is now. William Lacy Clay (D-Mo.) is the ranking member on the House Financial Services Committee on Domestic Monetary Policy.© 2011 POLITICO LLC
06.10.2011	Clay Salutes Civil Rights Legend Frankie Muse FreemanFamed Attorney to Receive NAACP’s Highest Honor, Spingarn Medal for Lifetime Achievement WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today offered his warmest congratulations to nationally acclaimed civil rights attorney and St. Louis community leader Frankie Muse Freeman, who will be honored with the Spingarn Medal, the NAACP’s highest award for lifetime achievement. The medal will be presented to Atty. Freeman on July 28th at the NAACP national convention in Los Angeles. “Frankie Freeman is a legal legend whose contributions as a civil rights attorney and as the first female member of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission changed this country forever,” said the Congressman. “Frankie has been a good friend and mentor of mine for almost thirty years. Her inspired advocacy laid the groundwork for the Federal Voting Rights Act, ended racial discrimination in public housing, and provided dedicated oversight of the St. Louis Public Schools and the voluntary desegregation plan. She is truly a national treasure and is most deserving of this high honor.” In the official announcement issued by the NAACP Board of Directors, Chairman Roslyn M. Brock said, "Frankie Muse Freeman has dedicated her life’s work to the civil rights movement. She broke down barriers as a member of the NAACP’s brain trust during the 1950s and as the first woman to serve on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. Her determination to end racial discrimination in American society for more than half a century serves as an inspiration to us all." -30-
06.07.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, 6.6.11Over Five Thousand Job Seekers Flock to Clay's Sixth Annual Career FairTremendous Response Breaks All Previous Records Before the doors opened this morning for Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay’s 6th Annual Career Fair at Harris-Stowe State University, a line of eager job seekers stretched almost around the building. By noon, four thousand guests had come through the doors. Overall attendance numbered more than 5,000 visitors.“This amazing community response exceeded my greatest hopes for this year’s Career Fair,” said the Congressman. “It shows the urgency of unemployment and underemployment in the First Congressional District and throughout the St. Louis region. My number one priority is to help put my constituents back to work and to connect them with job opportunities that they could not take advantage of by themselves. We accomplished that today in a big way, and I am very proud to have helped so many good people who are skilled, highly motivated, and ready to go to work.”Job seekers were able to meet face-to-face with 106 top St. Louis employers, including: the Boeing Company; GKN Aerospace; Express Scripts; BJC Healthcare Systems; Enterprise Rent-a-Car; World Wide Technology; the St. Louis Public Library; Wells Fargo Advisors; Macy’s ; Centene; Best Buy; the Transportation Security Administration: the U.S. Marshals Service; and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.The U.S. Office of Personnel Management joined the Career Fair lineup by providing a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for thousands of federal jobs, worldwide.Congressman Clay’s Sixth Annual Career Fair was presented with the invaluable help and support of Harris-Stowe State University and all of our outstanding vendor partners. We thank them for their participation and we look forward to Career Fair ‘2012.-30-
05.26.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 5.26.11Clay’s 6th Annual Career Fair Will Feature Over 100 Top EmployersSt. Louis’ Biggest Free Jobs Event Set for Monday, June 6th at Harris-Stowe State UniversityCongressman Lacy Clay’s 6th Annual Career Fair will feature over 100 St. Louis area employers from all sectors of the local economy, along with great job opportunities with federal, state and local government agencies. Among the top St. Louis employers who will be on hand are: The Boeing Company; Macy’s; BJC Healthcare; Centene Corporation; GKN Aerospace; Wells Fargo Advisors; Express Scripts; World Wide Technology; the State of Missouri; McDonalds Corporation; Emmis Communications; Enterprise Holdings; St. Louis Zoo; Schnucks; Best Buy; Lodging Hospitality Management; Saint Louis University; the Transportation Security Administration; the Internal Revenue Service; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; local fire and police departments; hotels and casinos; education and healthcare providers; Clear Channel Radio; Radio One; financial institutions; Antenna's Direct; St. Louis City and County governments; UPS and many others.Clay’s Career Fair is set for Monday, June 6th, at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center, 3026 Laclede Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63103. The event runs from 9:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m., and it’s absolutely free.For the fourth consecutive year, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a one-stop shop at the Career Fair to help interested job seekers learn about, and apply for, over 100,000 federal jobs, worldwide. Last year, over 5,000 guests took advantage of this unique opportunity to meet and interview with top employers,” said the Congressman. “If you’re looking for a job, my Career Fair is the place to be.” For more information, please call Congressman Clay’s office at (314) 367-1970, or visit www.lacyclay.house.gov-30-
05.25.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 5.25.11 Over Nine Thousand Tune in to Clay’s Town Hall on Tornado RecoveryTeleforum Connects Residents with Federal Officials, Local Mayors in St. Louis County -ST. LOUIS- Over nine thousand St. Louis County residents tuned in to last night’s tele town hall forum presented by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) St. Louis, to receive the latest updates on tornado recovery efforts from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Small Business Administration and local mayors. Residents affected by the Good Friday tornadoes, which tore through eight communities in North St. Louis County, face a July 8th deadline to seek direct federal assistance. “I want to commend FEMA, our local mayors, and thousands of community volunteers for pulling together to continue the ongoing recovery efforts from the severe tornado damage on April 22nd. Tonight, we connected with over nine thousand households in the affected areas, and I remind everyone that if you have tornado damage and you have not yet registered with FEMA, it’s absolutely essential that you do so immediately,” said Mr. Clay. “Residents can visit my website at www.lacyclay.house.gov and click on the disaster assistance box. Or they may call FEMA directly at 1-800-621-3362.”FEMA and the SBA offer help to both property owners and renters. Grants and loans are available in many cases. Thus far, FEMA has processed over 1,100 applications and has approved $610,000 in assistance. -30-
05.23.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY 5.23.11 Clay Says Hope VI Grant will Transform Blumeyer, Create Affordable Housing & Community Green Space$7.82 Million Grant will allow St. Louis to replace old, obsolete public housing with healthy, safe and affordable homes -ST. LOUIS, MO – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, joined Regional HUD Administrator Derrith Watchaman-Moore and Mayor Francis G. Slay to announce a $7.82 Million Hope VI grant that will replace the aging Blumeyer high-rise housing project with safe and affordable community homes on North Sarah street in the City of St. Louis. In his remarks at the grant announcement, Congressman Clay said, “I want to personally thank President Obama and Secretary Donovan for making this $7.82 million Hope VI grant possible. Just a few days ago I met with the President along with my colleagues from the Congressional Black Caucus. We made it clear that in our view, winning the future requires a real commitment to urban America…and he agreed with us. Today is proof positive that President Obama follows up his promises…with action.This Hope VI grant will allow us to replace old, obsolete public housing with healthy, safe and affordable homes on North Sarah street, and it also supports our overall plan to make the Northside regeneration project a reality. That’s the kind of redevelopment I love to see because rebuilding urban neighborhoods is a vital part of winning the future.”The Arthur A. Blumeyer building is the last family high-rise public housing project in the City of St. Louis. It will be replaced with a vibrant, mixed income community. The original footprint of the public housing tower will be transformed into a community green space. The St. Louis Housing Authority will match the federal grant with $3.2 million of local funding to complete the project.-30-
05.10.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 5.10.11 Clay Thanks President Obama forExpedited Disaster Declaration in Missouri Urges Individuals and Businesses Affected by Tornadoes & Flooding to Register with FEMA for Direct Federal Assistance -WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri thanked President Barack Obama today for his expedited major disaster declaration for the State of Missouri after multiple counties suffered extensive tornado damage and flooding. In Missouri’s First Congressional District, the Good Friday tornado caused major damage throughout North St. Louis County and at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport.“I want to thank President Obama for granting an expedited review of Governor Nixon’s application for a major disaster declaration for the State of Missouri,” said the Congressman. “This decision opens the pipeline for direct federal assistance to help individuals, businesses and municipalities get back on their feet after the Good Friday tornado. For homeowners, renters and small business owners, this is a lifeline that will speed their recovery. I am also very pleased that Lambert-St. Louis International Airport will receive federal help to repair tornado damage. It is essential for all those seeking direct federal assistance to register with FEMA as soon as possible. You can do that by visiting my official website at www.lacyclay.house.gov or by going to www.DisasterAssistance.gov.”Summary of FEMA Major Disaster Declaration for MissouriThe President's action makes federal funding available to affected individuals in the counties of Butler, Mississippi, New Madrid, St. Louis, and Taney. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, property losses, and other programs to help households recover. Additionally, The Small Business Administration (SBA) has been authorized to provide low cost disaster loans to businesses and individuals to cover losses that are not fully compensated by insurance or other sources, and do not duplicate benefits of other agencies or organizations. Disaster survivors must register in order to be considered for assistance, by going to www.DisasterAssistance.gov or calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362). Operators speak many languages. Those with hearing or speech impairment can use TTY 800-462-7585. Also, you can apply for federal assistance directly through web-enabled mobile phone devices or smartphones. Registration through the mobile site takes three steps:1. Go to m.fema.gov and click “Apply Online for FEMA Assistance.” You will be directed to www.DisasterAssistance.gov;2. Click on Start Registration; and3. Fill out the registration form. FEMA will ask for the following information:• The telephone number where you can be reached;• The address where you lived at the time of the disaster and the address where you are staying;• Your Social Security number;• A general description of damage to your property and other losses;• The name of your insurance company and your policy number or agent if you have property insurance; and• Your bank account routing information if you want FEMA to use direct deposit. Federal funding also is available to state and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis in St. Louis County. Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures statewide.
04.25.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY 4.25.11STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING TORNADO RECOVERY IN ST. LOUIS COUNTYNOTE: The following, in its entirety,Is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-ST. LOUIS, MO – “Here is the latest update on where we stand at this moment with tornado recovery.I have been in daily contact with the White House and Federal Emergency Management Agency to make sure that we focus all available federal resources on St. Louis County to ensure that the affected communities get all the help we can provide.Here is the latest update from FEMA - Washington, DC:FEMA’s emergency assessment teams will on the ground later today, and the preliminary damage assessments will begin tomorrow in St. Louis County, at Lambert St. Louis International Airport and in St. Charles County.These assessment teams will be staffed jointly by federal, state and local officials…and their mission will be to assess damage to homes and businesses, and damage to infrastructure…such as the airport, roads, bridges, etc.This FEMA assessment is the key first step in helping Governor Nixon compile his request for a Presidential Disaster Declaration.If approved, that would open the pipeline for federal disaster funding for individuals and local businesses in the form of grants and low-interest loans.I expect this preliminary damage assessment to be completed over the next 72 hours. The PDA is the critical first step in the potential Presidential Disaster Declaration process.I will be staying on the ground here in St. Louis this week, and I will be working closely with local Mayors, City Administrators, and state officials to make sure that we cut through the red tape and get my constituents the help that you need.In the meantime, for more information and direct emergency assistance, please visit www.redcrossstl.org or please call the Red Cross St. Louis Disaster Relief headquarters at (314) 516.2800.Additional emergency resources can be accessed by calling the United Way at 2-1-1.If you are need of emergency housing, a community shelter has been established in Maryland Heights:Maryland Heights Community Center2344 McKelvey Road, Maryland Heights, Missouri 63043Lastly, I want to commend the true spirit of cooperation and great courage that we are seeking across the St. Louis region.St. Louisans are pulling together to help our neighbors, and we’re showing why this is such a wonderful community.I also want to thank all of the emergency responders who acted with such skill and bravery in this disaster.We are truly blessed that there was no loss of life, and we will rebuild our community….of that, I have no doubt.”-30-
04.15.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: FRIDAY 4.15.11Clay Blasts Republican Budget That Ends Medicare, Guts MedicaidSays GOP Plan Betrays Senior Citizens and Will Put Millions of Jobs at Risk-WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today blasted the just-approved House Republican Fiscal Year 2012 budget as “A complete betrayal of the greatest generation that will harm seniors, destroy American jobs and weaken the middle-class.”“Today, the Republicans voted to end Medicare as we know it,” said the Congressman. “They broke a sacred promise to our seniors and they should be ashamed of themselves. Under the Republican budget plan, seniors will be forced to pay twice as much for half the healthcare benefits that they currently receive. Besides ending Medicare, the Republican budget guts Medicaid…depriving seniors of quality nursing home care when they need it the most. And it gives huge tax breaks to big oil and the very wealthy, while punishing middle-class families. The Republicans have spent their first 100 days in the House Majority on political theatrics to please the extremist Tea Party wing of their party, instead of trying to work in a bipartisan way to help create jobs. That’s not what the American people sent us here to do.”Mr. Clay continued, “We have to restore fiscal sanity to the federal budget by reducing spending and paying down the national debt. I absolutely support that effort. But, the key question is how we do that. We will never achieve a balanced budget and a strong economy by punishing seniors and the weakest among us while rewarding huge corporations and oil companies with more tax breaks and subsidies while they ship American jobs overseas. There should be no sacred cows in this process, including defense spending.” The Republican budget plan helps the rich and harms the poor. After extending the Bush tax cuts permanently, it cuts the top rate for individuals and corporations from 35 percent to 25 percent. It also slashes Medicaid, Pell Grants, food stamps, and low-income housing. These critical programs make a huge difference to moderate income families, especially during these difficult economic times. “It’s outrageous to try to balance the budget on the backs of those who suffer the most, while giving more tax breaks to the very few who have accumulated tremendous wealth, even while most American struggle to recover their economic security,” said Mr. Clay. -30-
04.13.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 4.13.11 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ADDRESS ON DEFICIT REDUCTION NOTE: The following, in its entirety,is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri-WASHINGTON, DC –“Today, the President tackled the budget deficit in an honest and balanced way. He told the American people the truth about how we accumulated the budget deficit and the national debt, and the tough choices that will be required to restore fiscal responsibility. Like President Obama, I strongly believe that if we’re serious about putting our fiscal house in order, then everything, including entitlements and defense spending, has to be on the table. Democrats and Republicans need to come together to ask everyone to sacrifice, but in doing so, we must protect seniors, working families and our most vulnerable citizens from bearing all of the pain. We are not going to fix this problem by ending Medicare and gutting Medicaid, as House Republicans have proposed. As the President said, this is about more than just balancing the budget and paying down our debt; this is about what kind of America we want for the future, and how we get there together without leaving some of our fellow citizens behind.” -30-
04.12.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 4.12.11Clay Says Republican Budget Betrays Senior Citizens, Ends MedicareGOP Spending Plan Will Cost American Jobs, Weaken Middle Class -WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri blasted the proposed House Republican Fiscal Year 2012 budget as “A complete betrayal of the greatest generation that will harm seniors, destroy American jobs and weaken the middle-class. Under the guise of deficit reduction, the House Republican budget would end guaranteed Medicare benefits, gut Medicaid and create a fast-track to assault Social Security,” said the Congressman. Mr. Clay continued, “We have to restore fiscal sanity to the federal budget by reducing spending and paying down the national debt. I absolutely support that effort. And there should be no sacred cows in this discussion, including defense spending and ending tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires. But we will never achieve a balanced budget and a strong economy by punishing seniors and the weakest among us while rewarding huge corporations and oil companies with more tax breaks and subsidies while they ship American jobs overseas.” According to a just-released report by the National Council on Aging, “The Ryan Medicaid proposal takes us from neglecting the least among us to targeting them – threatening the lives, dignity and future of poor, vulnerable seniors, children and people with disabilities,” said Howard Bedlin, vice president for public policy and advocacy for the National Council on Aging. “Medicaid recipients needing the most expensive care will be at greatest risk of being targeted for harmful cost-containment strategies.” The Republican budget plan, as proposed by Congressman Paul Ryan (R) Wisconsin, rewards the rich and harms the poor. After extending the Bush tax cuts permanently, it would cut the top rate for individuals and corporations from 35 percent to 25 percent. The Ryan budget then slashes Medicaid, Pell Grants, food stamps, and low-income housing. These critical programs make a huge difference to moderate income families, especially during these difficult economic times. “It’s outrageous to try to balance the budget on the backs of those who suffer the most, while giving more tax breaks to the very few who have accumulated tremendous wealth, even while most working families are struggling to recover their economic security,” said Mr. Clay. -30-
03.30.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 3.30.11Clay Applauds EPA Decision to Launch Carter Carburetor Clean-up$27 Million Superfund Project Will Protect Children, Spur Neighborhood Development-WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri applauded today’s announcement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to begin the long-awaited clean-up of the former Carter Carburetor Superfund site, on Grand Avenue in the City of St. Louis. “This is a great victory that I have fought for, for a long time," said the Congressman. “Cleaning up this highly contaminated site is my number one environmental priority in the City of St. Louis. I have been fighting to win this approval for years, and I want to thank President Obama and the leadership at EPA for acting decisively on my request.”Mr. Clay added, “This clean-up is absolutely critical because so many children are potentially at- risk across the street at the Herbert Hoover Boys & Girls Club. The neighborhood deserves a clean and safe environment to raise children, create new business opportunities and grow jobs.And I am especially pleased that after years of delay, the responsible parties will foot the entire $27 million bill…not the taxpayers. Making polluters pay and restoring a safe site that supports neighborhood redevelopment is what environmental justice is all about.”As described in the EPA Action Memorandum released today, here is a summary of the selected removal action for the Carter Carburetor Site:This removal action will involve thermally enhanced extraction of PCBs and TCE from subsurface soils. The action will also involve the removal of PCBs in two on-site buildings. Institutional controls may be required at the site following completion of the removal action. The action will address four distinct contaminated areas:1) The TCE Above-Ground Storage Tank Area (AST Area) – The action for this area is In-Situ Thermal Desorption and Vapor Extraction, a process which heats the contaminated soil and allows contaminants to be removed from the soil. The TCE will then be collected and disposed of in an off-site facility. 2) The Carter Building, Inc. (CBI) Building – The action for this area is demolition and off-site disposal. After completing the remediation of asbestos-containing material, the CBI building will be demolished and building materials disposed based on PCB concentrations. 3) The Willco Building – Because PCB contamination in the Willco Building is relatively low, a thorough cleaning may be sufficient. If the cleaning does not reduce the contamination to below acceptable levels, the first and second floor slabs would be partially removed and replaced.4) The Die Cast Area – The action for this area is In-Situ Thermal Desorption and Vapor Extraction. This is the same process that will be used at the AST Area. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION An Administrative Record has been established for the Carter Carburetor Superfund Site. The Administrative Record contains site-related documents and is available for review at the following locations: Herbert Hoover Boys and Girls Club2901 North Grand AvenueSt. Louis, Missouri 63107St. Louis Public Library, Divoll Branch4234 North Grand AvenueSt. Louis, Missouri 63107EPA Region 7 Records Center901 North 5th StreetKansas City, Kansas 66101
03.24.2011	One Year Later: The Benefits of the Affordable Care Act for Missouri, Standing Up for Seniors, Children, Community Healthcare Centers,Patients with Pre-Existing Conditions, Small Business Tax CreditsThanks to the Affordable Care Act, passed by Congress and signed into law by President Obama on March 23, 2010, Missouri residents have more freedom and control over their health care choices. All Americans with insurance are free from worrying about losing their insurance due to a mistake on an application, or having it capped unexpectedly if someone is in an accident or becomes sick. They no longer have to live in fear of double-digit premium increases from their insurance companies without recourse or accountability.The law reduces costs for families and businesses and has already made it illegal for insurance companies to deny care to children because of a pre-existing condition. And it includes substantial new benefits and freedoms for Missouri residents.Specifically, the Affordable Care Act is already helping the people of Missouri by:Providing New Benefits and Lowering Costs for Medicare BeneficiariesNearly all 44 million beneficiaries who have Medicare, including 957,000 in Missouri, can now receive free preventive services – like mammograms and colonoscopies – as well as a free annual wellness visit with their doctor. Also, more than 82,802 Missouri residents who hit the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap known as the “donut hole” received $250 tax-free rebates, and will receive a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs when they hit the donut hole this year. By 2020, the law will close the donut hole completely. Taken together, the changes in the law will save seniors enrolled in traditional Medicare more than $3,500 over the next 10 years.Lowering Taxes for Small BusinessesThe law provides $40 billion of tax credits to up to 4 million small businesses, including up to 94,318 in Missouri to help offset the costs of purchasing coverage for their employees and makes premiums more affordable.Providing Greater Resources for MissouriThe law gives Governors millions of dollars in Federal support for their work to hold down insurance premiums, build competitive insurance marketplaces, provide insurance to early retirees, and strengthen their public health and prevention efforts. So far, Missouri has received $47.2 million from the Affordable Care Act. Grants to Missouri include:• $674,600 to support a consumer assistance program• $1 million to plan for a Health Insurance Exchange• $1 million to crack down on unreasonable insurance premium increases• $24.3 million to support capital development in community health centers• $6.5 million from the Prevention and Public Health Fund• $7.7 million in Therapeutic Discovery Project Program Tax Credits and Grants• $377,186 for Medicare improvements for patients and providers• $1 million for demonstration projects to address health professions workforce needs• $3 million to implement the National Background Check Program for long term care workers • $1.6 million for Maternal, Infant and Childhood Home VisitingProviding New Coverage Options for Young AdultsInsurance companies are now required to allow parents to keep their children up to age 26 without job-based coverage on their insurance plans. An estimated 19,700 young adults in Missouri could gain insurance coverage as a result of the law.Covering Children with Pre-Existing ConditionsMost insurance companies are now banned from denying coverage to children because of a pre-existing condition. An estimated 339,000 kids with a pre-existing condition in Missouri will be protected because of this provision. In 2014, insurers are banned from discriminating against anyone with a pre-existing condition.Removing Lifetime Limits on Health BenefitsThe law bans insurance companies from imposing lifetime dollar limits on health benefits – freeing cancer patients and individuals suffering from other chronic diseases from having to worry about going without treatment because of their lifetime limits. The law also restricts the use of annual limits and bans them completely in 2014. This will protect 3.5 million Missouri residents with private insurance coverage from these limits.Making it Illegal for an Insurance Company to Drop Coverage When You Get SickThe law bans insurance companies from dropping coverage when an individual gets sick because of simple mistake on an application. This will protect 378,000 Missouri residents who buy coverage on the individual market from losing their coverage when they need it the most.Increasing the Value of Health InsuranceUnder the law, insurance companies must provide consumers greater value by spending at least 80% of premium dollars on health care and quality improvements instead of overhead, executive salaries or marketing. If they don’t, they must provide consumers a rebate or reduce premiums. This means that 3.5 million Missouri residents with private insurance coverage will receive greater value for their premium dollars.Scrutinizing Unreasonable Premium IncreasesNew rules in the law require insurers to publicly justify unreasonable premium increases, and strengthen States’ abilities to crack down on premium hikes.Strengthening Economic Growth in MissouriSince the President signed the Affordable Care Act into law last March, the economy has created nearly 1.4 million private sector jobs, and has grown at an average annual rate of 2.7%. Experts predict that the Affordable Care Act will create anywhere from 250,000 – 400,000 jobs each year.Lowering Early Retiree Coverage CostsAn estimated 82,600 people from Missouri retired before they were eligible for Medicare and have health coverage through their former employers. Unfortunately, the number of firms that provide health coverage to their retirees has decreased over time. But thanks to the creation of 3the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program in the Affordable Care Act, 138 employers in Missouri have been approved to receive support to firms that continue to provide health coverage to their early retirees—lowering their total health care costs. In 2010, employers in Missouri received $6.2 million in payments.Creating New Coverage Options for Individuals with Pre-Existing ConditionsResidents of Missouri who have been locked out of the coverage system because of a pre-existing condition are now eligible for coverage through a new Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan that was created under the law. To learn more about the plan available in Missouri go here: https://www.pcip.gov/StatePlans.html.Increasing Support for Community Health CentersThe Affordable Care Act increases the funding available to the more than 1,100 community health centers in all 50 States, including the 185 existing Community Health Centers in Missouri in rural communities and inner cities, enabling them to double the number of patients they serve from 19 million to nearly 40 million by 2015. This builds on a $2 billion investment in Community Health Centers in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which has provided an unprecedented opportunity to serve more patients, create new jobs, and meet the significant increase in demand for primary health care services.Reducing the Health Care Workforce ShortageNearly 19% of Missouri residents live in an underserved area. The law includes new resources to boost the number of doctors, nurses and health care providers in communities where they are needed most. These resources include grants, scholarships, loan repayment programs, as well as increased support for educational institutions that provide training for a range of health care careers.
03.22.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 3.22.11 NNPA Foundation Honors Congressman Clay with Political Leadership Award-WASHINGTON, DC – An overflow crowd of the nation’s top African American newspaper publishers packed the ballroom of the Omni Shoreham Hotel to present the National Newspaper Publishers Association Foundation award for political leadership to Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, and Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D) California. The two senior members of the House Financial Services Committee were honored for their courageous and uncompromising stance to demand critical funding for urban communities and emergency help for homeowners in danger of foreclosure. Mr. Clay told the gathering that the black press has never been more important, and he recalled the impact that pioneer Black publishers and journalists had on him as a young man. In his acceptance remarks, Congressman Clay said, “Growing up in St. Louis, I was truly blessed to regularly read the work of some the giants of the black press…NNPA pioneers like Nathaniel Sweets of the St. Louis American; Ben Thomas of the Evening Whirl; Eugene Mitchell of the St. Louis Argus; and Howard Woods of the St. Louis Sentinel. These are challenging times in urban communities. And the role of the independent black press has never been more important. Just this week, we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the founding of the Congressional Black Caucus. As most of you know, my father, former Congressman Bill Clay, was one of thirteen founding members who came together in 1971 to give African Americans a unified national voice in the U.S. Congress. I am enormously proud of what my father and his colleagues created. And there is no question that their success would not have been possible without the black press. Your news outlets were essential vehicles that allowed the founders of the CBC to elevate their message to a national audience. They knew then, and we know today, that the best way to advance the vital interests of African Americans is to project a powerful, positive and progressive message that speaks truth to power, without apology or equivocation. And that’s exactly what you do every day with your coverage.”The NNPA, which was established in 1942, represents over 200 Black-owned newspapers across the country.-30-
03.21.2011	MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT(314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 3.21.11Fighting Back to Stop The Assault on the Middle ClassBy Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriAs someone who has championed the rights of working people for twenty-eight years, both in Congress and the Missouri Legislature, I would like to thank the Tea Party Republicans for doing us a big favor.Over the last month in Wisconsin they provided the American people with a very clear picture of who they really are, who they represent, and how far they are willing to go to trample on the middle-class families who actually do the work in this country.The truth is that this is a historic moment in the history of organized labor because much more than just union membership is on the line.This fight is about stopping a blatant, offensive attack on the American middle class.All across this country…in Wisconsin, in Indiana, in Ohio, and right here in Missouri…extreme, anti-worker GOP politicians and the predatory special interests who back them, are attempting to break the back of organized labor.And please don’t believe the nonsense that this is just about reducing deficits or paying off the debt.We all know that union members are more than willing to do their part to make tough sacrifices to help this economy become more efficient, help state and local governments reduce wasteful spending, and help tighten our belts during tough economic times..But that’s not what this is about.This is not about conservative versus progressive, or whether the government should do more or less.This is about playing raw politics to destroy the ability of working people to organize and defend what really matters to you and your family.This is about the moneyed special interests who have always gotten rich off of the hard work of others…who have bought and paid for a number of elected officials in different states.They are willing to sacrifice your family’s economic future to line the pockets of their wealthy donors, many of whom engaged in the reckless and irresponsible financial practices that destroyed millions of jobs and pushed more than three million American families into foreclosure.They think this is their moment to strike a fatal blow to the labor movement.Stripping collective bargaining rights from public employees and bringing back the right to work for less legislation is not about helping the economy.It’s not about creating jobs or reducing the deficit.It’s about pure politics.So I want to thank the extreme, anti-worker leadership of the Tea Party Republicans for taking this issue on.As a result of their efforts, the American people are solidly standing with us, and not with them.Working people in Missouri and across this country are waking up to a very clear picture of who is on their side…and who isn’t.I can assure you that as the battle heats up, I will be on the front lines of this fight, standing shoulder-to-shoulder with you.We will once again defeat the right to work for less. We will protect the collective bargaining rights of public employees.And we will defend the American middle class that organized labor helped to create.Thank you for all your hard work, faith and courage.Let’s stand up strong together.
03.15.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 3.15.11 Clay Commemorates 40th Anniversary of the Congressional Black CaucusSalutes Courage of Founders, Pledges to Continue the Mission-WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today saluted the Congressional Black Caucus on the 40th Anniversary of its formation. Congressman Clay’s father, former Congressman Bill Clay, was one of thirteen founding Members who came together in 1971 to give African Americans a unified national voice in the U.S. Congress. “I am enormously proud of what my father and his colleagues created,” said the Congressman. "They knew then, and we know today, that the best way to advance the vital interests of African Americans is to project a powerful, positive and progressive message that speaks truth to power, without apology or equivocation. My generation of CBC Members stands on the shoulders of our courageous founders who broke down barriers for African Americans. And by doing so, they elevated all Americans. Under the leadership of my good friend and colleague, Chairman Emanuel Cleaver (D), Missouri, the CBC continues to be the conscience of the Congress. We are committed to continuing our fearless advocacy for jobs, education, healthcare, housing and voting rights.” “As Chairman Cleaver stated earlier today, The Congressional Black Caucus will not compromise when it comes to the welfare of our constituents and communities. Our top priority remains getting Americans back to work by creating economic opportunity for all, not cutting critical programs that impact the welfare of our most vulnerable communities.” -30-
03.11.2011	Notice from U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 7901 N. Fifth St., Kansas City, KS 66101Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, and Nine Tribal NationsEPA Regional Administrator Karl Brooks to Host March 15 Regulatory Reform Listening Session in Springfield, Mo.Contact Information: Beckie Himes, 913-387-7548, himes.beckie@epa.govNEWS MEDIA ADVISORYFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE(Kansas City, Kan., March 11, 2011) - EPA Regional Administrator Karl Brooks will host a Regulatory Reform Listening Session on March 15 in Springfield, Mo., at which citizens will be welcomed to submit comments and suggestions for ways the Agency can make its regulatory programs more effective and less burdensome.The listening session, to be held from 7 to 9 p.m. on Tuesday, March 15, at The Library Center, 4653 S. Campbell Ave., in Springfield, is part of the Agency’s fulfillment of Executive Order 13563 issued by President Obama on January 18, 2011.Through the order, President Obama has directed all federal agencies to facilitate the periodic review of existing significant regulations. In fulfillment of the order, EPA will "consider how best to promote retrospective analysis of rules that may be outmoded, ineffective, insufficient, or excessively burdensome, and to modify, streamline, expand, or repeal them in accordance with what has been learned," the order says.Regional Administrator Brooks and other EPA Region 7 representatives will attend the listening session. Citizens will be invited to provide comments orally or in writing. The proceedings will be recorded on video and transcribed into permanent record for submission to EPA Headquarters, where they will become part of the Agency’s formal report to the White House.Through March 20, 2011, citizens are also invited to submit comments online at www.epa.gov/lawsregs/retrospective.WHAT: EPA Region 7 Regulatory Reform Listening SessionWHEN: 7 p.m. to 9 p.m., Tuesday, March 15, 2011WHERE: The Library Center, 4653 S. Campbell Ave., Springfield, Mo. 65810
03.10.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 3.10.11 Clay Pushes for Posthumous Promotion to Honor U.S. Army Hero, Colonel Charles YoungBipartisan Legislation Introduced to Right Historical Injustice in Honor of Trailblazing African American Officer-WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined the National Veterans Coalition and a number of congressional colleagues to introduce legislation to correct a historical injustice which prevented Colonel Charles Young from becoming the first African American combat officer to reach the rank of Brigadier General in the U.S. Army. Flanked by civil rights leaders and veterans advocates, Mr. Clay announced his cosponsorship of legislation that would authorize the U.S. Department of the Interior to conduct a study to determine if the Ohio homestead of the late Colonel Charles Young should become a National Park Service site. Colonel Young, a decorated combat hero of both the Spanish American War and hostilities against Mexican raider Pancho Villa, was denied a World War I command in France that would have elevated him to the rank of brigadier general.In his comments, Congressman Clay said:“Colonel Young was only the third black officer to graduate from the U.S. Military Academy. He distinguished himself during the Spanish-American War, and later in Mexico, where he helped pursue Pancho Villa under the direction of General Pershing. At the outbreak of World War I, Colonel Young was the highest ranking African American officer in the U.S. Army. He requested a battlefield assignment in France. But sadly, the Army, the Secretary of War and President Woodrow Wilson blocked Colonel Young’s deployment to Europe and his promotion to the rank of brigadier general. His life and his brave service is much more than just a great chapter in African American history.It is an example of everything that a great soldier and a good citizen are supposed to be. It is time for Colonel Young to take his rightful, and long-overdue place among the heroes of the U.S. Army.” -30-
02.15.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 2.15.11Clay Salutes “Baseball’s Perfect Warrior”as Cardinal Hall of Famer Stan Musial Receives thePresidential Medal of FreedomCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri saluted St. Louis Cardinals Hall of Famer Stan “the Man” Musial as he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom today at the White House. The award is our nation’s highest civilian honor.“I am truly blessed to have cheered for Stan as a young fan at Sportsman’s Park, where my Dad took me to see him many times. I then had the good fortune to know him as an adult. And I can honestly say that as magnificent a ballplayer as he was, he is truly a better citizen. Stan Musial is a national treasure.His remarkable life represents the very best of America. Stan served his nation in time of war and then returned to set almost every offensive baseball record as a 24-time National League All-Star.We should also remember that Stan showed great courage by being one of the first white ballplayers to welcome Jackie Robinson into the Major Leagues with friendship and respect. Former Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick may have said it best with the words that are inscribed at the base of Stan Musial’s statue in front of Busch Stadium…"Here stands baseball's perfect warrior. Here stands baseball's perfect knight."Congressman Clay also congratulates St. Louis native Dr. Maya Angelou and his colleague, Congressman John Lewis (D) Georgia, who also received the Presidential Medal of Freedom today from President Obama.-30-
02.14.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY 2.14.11Clay Honors Pearl Harbor Survivor with Eight Medals for Courageous ServiceJohn Travis Moton, U.S. Navy (retired) Receives Recognition After Almost 70 YearsCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has awarded eight long-overdue medals to U.S. Navy veteran and Pearl Harbor survivor, John Travis Moton. Mr. Moton, 91, was surrounded by family earlier today at Congressman Clay’s St. Louis City Office as he received the military decorations earned almost seven decades ago. On December 7, 1941, Moton was serving aboard the USS Tennessee, moored along Battleship Row, at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. The ship took two direct hits in the surprise attack.As he presented the medals to Mr. Moton, Congressman Clay remarked, “Every American owes you, and all World War II veterans, our enduring thanks for saving the world during its darkest hour. Your courageous service should have been recognized while you were a young man. But today, I am so pleased that my staff was able to right this wrong, and finally present you the thanks of a grateful nation.” Besides his six year naval career, 1939 - 1945, Mr. Moton worked at the United States Postal Service for more than two decades. Military Decorations Presented todayby Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri to:John Travis Moton, Jr.United States Navy, (retired)09/18/1939 – 08/09/1945World War II Victory MedalAsiatic Pacific Campaign Medal with one bronze starAmerican Defense Service Medal with Fleet ClaspCombat Action RibbonAmerican Campaign MedalNavy Discharge Button and Honorable Service Lapel Pin (Ruptured Duck)Navy Good Conduct MedalPearl Harbor Commemorative Medal.
02.14.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 2.14.11STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S PROPOSED BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2012NOTE: The following, in its entirety,is a first-person statement byCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri"Reducing the deficit needs to be done in an equitable way that does not focus all of the pain on lower-income Americans and urban areas. Cutting Pell Grants and Community Development Block Grants is "penny wise but pound foolish." Such cuts would weaken already struggling urban communities who have suffered much higher rates of unemployment and foreclosures, and reducing Pell Grants would penalize talented young people who deserve a chance to succeed." -30-
02.10.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 2.10.11Clay Praises Fed Monetary Policy That is Growing Jobs, Keeping Inflation LowChides GOP Critics for Paying Too Much Attention to Chinese, Too Little Attention to Job CreationCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy, praised the Federal Reserve’s efforts to support the economic recovery, generate job growth and help middle class families recovery their economic security.In his statement before the subcommittee yesterday, Mr. Clay strongly supported the Federal Reserves prudent efforts to infuse the economy with available consumer credit that let to the creation of more than one million jobs in the private sector over the last 19 months. He also rejected GOP criticism that the Fed’s actions had weakened our currency and upset key economic partners, including the Peoples Republic of China.Excerpts from Congressman Clay’s opening statement appear below.===“I never thought that I would see the day when allegedly conservative members of the Republican Party would side with the People’s Republic of China, over the best advice of the Chairman of the Federal Reserve System.The Republican assertion that the Fed’s actions to infuse the money supply, in order to hold down interest rates and lower unemployment, will somehow harm our currency is absolutely ridiculous.The congressional mandate for the Federal Reserve is really a two-sided coin. The Fed has a mission to both maintain stable prices, and to foster conditions that promote job growth. If we expect this recovery to continue, we need to support both sides of that equation. I am thankful that the President of the United States, along with our congressional leadership, and in coordination with the Federal Reserve, acted courageously to prevent a second great depression and to preserve the American middle class.Over the last 19 months, with the help of the federal reserves’ wise monetary policies; corporate profits have soared; financial markets have stabilized and regained much of the value in equities that was lost and the private sector has created more than one million new jobs.We still have a long way to go, but that is more new job creation than during the entire two terms of the Bush Administration. We see real growth and recovery in almost every sector of the economy, in part, because of the fed’s actions.Manufacturing is up, orders for durable goods are up, and car sales are better than expected, which is why we cannot let up now.There is no doubt that the Fed’s prudent actions to carefully expand the money supply were appropriate and they are helping put Americans back to work.I’m not concerned about what the Chinese, the Brazilians or the Europeans think about our monetary policy. Especially when some of those who are complaining the loudest are guilty of manipulating their own currency to hamper American exports, which costs jobs here at home.The current monetary policy supports job creation here in America.Here in Congress, we have no higher priority.”
02.09.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 2.09.11Clay Encourages Community-Based Organizations to Apply for EPA Environmental Justice GrantsCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is accepting grant applications for $1.2 million in funding to support projects designed to research, educate, empower and enable communities to understand and address local health and environmental issues. Eligible applicants from non-profit, faith-based and tribal organizations working in the community of the proposed project are encouraged to apply.These grants are available to Missouri (and other states) through the EPA Region 7 office in Kansas City, Kan.Environmental Justice Small Grants funding is available for two categories of projects:• Forty grants of up to $25,000 each to support projects that address a community’s local environmental issues through collaborative partnerships, and;• Four grants of up to $50,000 each to gather better science on the environmental and health impacts of exposure to multiple sources of pollution in communities.Environmental justice means the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people, regardless of race or income, in the environmental decision-making process. Environmental justice issues often involve multiple sources of contamination, like pollution from several industrial facilities within one neighborhood, environmental hazards at the workplace or home, or contamination resulting from the consumption of fish or other foods.Environmental contamination can lead to costly health risks and can discourage investments and development in low-income, minority, and indigenous communities disproportionately impacted by pollution. Understanding the impacts of multiple environmental risks can help communities develop more effective solutions to their environmental and health concerns.The Environmental Justice Small Grants (EJSG) Program is designed to help communities understand and address their exposure to multiple environmental harms and risks.Applications must be postmarked by March 31, 2011.For more information, including eligibility requirements, purposes, goals, and general procedures, please visit www.epa.gov/environmentaljustice/resources/publications/grants/ej-smgrants-rfp-2011.pdfor contact EPA Region 7 toll-free at 1-800-223-0425.
01.12.2011	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 1.12.11FLOOR SPEECH BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIIN SUPPORT OF BIPARTISAN RESOLUTION REGARDING THE TRAGIC SHOOTING OF CONGRESSWOMAN GABRIELLE GIFFORDS AND OTHER CITIZENS IN TUCSON, AZWEDNESDAY, 1.12.11Note: The following is a first-person statementdelivered by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri,as submitted to the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives."Madame Speaker,I rise in support of this bipartisan resolution,And to offer my thoughts and prayers for the swift healing and complete recovery of my good friend and colleague, Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords;The dedicated members of her staff who were also wounded;And all of the other innocent victims of this unconscionable act of violence.I also want to express my sincere sympathies to the families of:U.S. District Judge John Roll,Gabe Zimmerman…a valued member of our congressional family;Dorwin Stoddard,Dorothy Morris,Phyllis Schneck,And most especially,Christina Green,A remarkable nine-year old child who had just won her first election to the student council,and wanted to speak to her congresswoman about a career in public service.===Mr. Speaker, as you so aptly noted just moments after this tragedy occurred,“An attack on one who serves, is an attack on all who serve.”And I would venture to say that all of us who have the high honor of serving in this body…the people’s house,Have searched our souls to try to understand the nature of this attack on the very core of our democracy.Like most of us, Congresswoman Giffords knows that there is simply no substitute for spending time with your constituents.The plain truth is that you cannot effectively represent your community in Congress…Unless you make time to interact with the people who hired you for this job.And as for me, I will continue to do that.Because I truly believe that even in the face of this kind of mindless violence,Constituents have a right to question their members of congress directly.And we who have been entrusted with the honor of public service…must never allow fear or threats to undermine that fundamental principle.===Accordingly, I will be lending my strong personal support to pending legislation offered by my colleague from New York, Mrs. McCarthy…to ban the importation, manufacture or sale of high-capacity ammunition magazines for semi-automatic handguns.We have a responsibility to outlaw this clear danger to the American people.===Finally Mr. Speaker, let me close with an appeal to all of my colleagues,To the political pundits on both the left and the right,And to all media outlets,To remember that hateful words often lead to hateful deeds.We must recall that we are Americans first.And our American family depends on maintaining our national sense of decency and civility in all that we do and say.Thank you and I yield back the balance of my time." -30-
01.05.2011	TESTIMONY OFCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURICITY OF ST. LOUIS CHARTER REFORM COMMISSIONMARCH 6, 2004Thank you ladies and gentlemen and good morning.Mayor Bosley, Mr. Symington, members of the stakeholders assembly, ladies and gentlemen…thank you for inviting me to address you today.The job of reforming and reshaping city government is an enormous challenge.You have shown great commitment and energy in taking on this difficult assignment, and I salute you for your civic contribution.Your job can best be described as a community-wide obstacle course that is filled with many minefields…Such as entrenched power structures;Inefficient government practices;Inadequate public services;A long, sad history of racial disparities;And the disenfranchisement of African Americans and other minorities.And, as I’m sure you have already discovered;Unfortunately, good government is not necessarily the highest priority on everyone’s list for charter reform.There are some elected officials, and their private sector supporters, whose only goal is to preserve their own power, and if possible…to expand it.Others in our community see this process simply as another attempt to depriveminorities of their fair share of power and influence at a time when St. Louis has become a majority African American city.But I am asking you to elevate your thinking beyond these shortsighted and selfish considerations.I am asking you to remove yourself from the personalities and politics of today, and to think about this mission in a different way.The impact of the process you are engaged in will have consequences long after all current elected officials, and everyone else here today, have passed from the scene.Your final recommendations must not be designed to protect, or punish, any current elected official.That is not government reform, its politics as usual.Your plan should reflect a return to the core mission of government: To give every citizen the best possible representation;And to give taxpayers the best possible return on their hard-earned tax dollars.The citizens who authorized this process deserve nothing less. Like you, I am a stakeholder in this community.But I come before you today with a very unique perspective.First, I am a native St. Louisan and a city resident.I am a homeowner, a taxpayer and a father of two young children who are growing up here.So the stakes for me are very personal.And as a federal elected official, I also have the high honor to represent large portions of both the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County in Congress.So I am well aware that while this may be a city process, the outcome will affect the well-being of St. Louis County and our entire area.The city continues to be the vital heart of the St. Louis region. And no patient can be truly healthy without a strong, stable heart. The plain fact is that in 2004, the city of St. Louis and St. Louis County share a common destiny.They face many of the same challenges and could potentially share many of the same solutions, to their mutual benefit.So with all respect to the stakeholders assembly, I ask you to consider that the scope of your discussions and your areas of concentration may be too limited and too restrictive to deal with the real problems of our city.Fiscal management, the Board of Alderman, personnel administration and organizational structures are all important…but they are not enough.The City of st. Louis is bleeding jobs, revenue and missed opportunities.When a patient arrives in the emergency room in critical condition, you cannot save him by offering just a few band-aids.This patient needs major surgery. And anyone who takes an honest look in the mirror can see that.For instance, one-third of the city budget goes to public safety, and yet control of the St. Louis Police Department is not held at city hall, or even at police headquarters… it’s in Jefferson City.That antiquated arrangement is a relic of the Civil War and it is time to bury it.Another glaring example of state-city reform that is long overdue is establishing local control of our election board.You all remember the fiasco of the November 2000 general election…A huge number of eligible voters were turned away from the polls by an election board that was incompetent, unaccountable to the voters and beyond any local control.Today, that situation is largely unchanged.Just eight months before the next presidential election, the election board is still unable to ensure the voting rights of every citizen;Still maintains an illegal inactive voters list;And in some cases, actually discourages voter participation…because it’s too much work for them!Any yet, we have no local control over the composition or operation of the election board.The shareholders assembly can tinker around the edges of the problem or you can resolve to act in a broader, more effective way.We cannot be a great city unless we establish local control over two functions that are the foundation of our future:Public safety and our election process.There is no legal or procedural barrier that would prevent the leadership of this assembly from reaching out to our state legislators to come up with a reform package in Jefferson City that would complement what you are doing here regarding the city charter.And unless this happens, any plan that you may decide to present to the voters will be inadequate, incomplete, and ultimately… ineffective.Regarding the organizational structure of the existing county offices, I think there is much room for debate about where the best efficiencies may come from.But one idea that I think deserves your serious consideration is the re-entry of the City of St. Louis into St. Louis County, as the largest independent municipality.Let me be clear…I am not suggesting a city-county merger.I am suggesting that you take the time to investigate the potential savings and service improvements that might be achieved through sharing responsibilities for certain functions that are currently duplicated.For instance:Both government entities have separate economic development operations;Separate courts and corrections systems;Separate parks and street repair;Separate health departments;Why? Jobs, potholes, criminals and uninsured sick people flow back and forth without stopping at Skinker boulevard.The realities of community life have left our government structures far behind, and we need to catch up.There are many potential areas of cooperation that could produce significant savings for taxpayers and actually improve public services.In terms of the other areas of concentration that you are already considering, let me say a few words about fiscal management.I believe that it is essential for the City of St. Louis to maintain an independently elected Comptroller.Historically, the Comptroller has acted as the only real watchdog that the taxpayers can count on.And the board of E&A generally does a good job of providing a healthy set of checks and balances over tax dollars.You know in Washington, we have our budget problems too.The current administration would love to have complete control over the federal budget process.But the constitution wisely maintains a series of checks and balances to prevent the concentration of too much power in the executive branch.E&A provides these same protections at city hall and it should be retained.And while we are considering E&A, let me also respectfully recommend that this process would be incomplete without taking a hard look at the duties and responsibilities of the Mayor’s Office.In my view, the Mayor’s Office cannot continue in its present form.That is not a reflection on our current mayor, who is my friend and colleague.But the fact is that many cities our size have adopted a council - city manager form of government, with great success.Other cities function successfully with a strong-mayor system.But currently, the Mayor of the City St. Louis is caught in the twilight zone between a strong mayor system and a weak mayor system.That does not give the Mayor the necessary tools that are required to lead effectively, and it should be changed.In terms of the Board of Aldermen, it probably needs to be reduced.But the ultimate size of the body is less important than the quality of neighborhood representation.So in conclusion, I would like to encourage you to open up your minds, broaden your focus and continue your good efforts.I hope you will not be limited by arbitrary schedules and ballot deadlines.We have taken 90 years to get to this point.So a few extra weeks, or extra months, would make no difference.People always resist change, because they fear it.But, the ultimate challenge for this assembly is to have the courage and vision to help our community overcome that fear, and see the better city that we all want to build.I look forward to our discussion this morning and thank you again for inviting me.
12.30.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 12.27.10 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI, REGARDING THE DEATH OF PARAQUAD FOUNDER, MAX STARKLOFF NOTE: The following, in its entirety,is a first-person statement byCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I am deeply saddened by the loss of my long-time friend Max Starkloff. He was a trusted advisor who helped me advocate for the rights of disabled Americans for almost three decades. At Paraquad, and across this country, Max Starkloff stood tall for the full inclusion of disabled Americans in all fields of endeavor. He was a true civil rights pioneer whose lifetime of courageous leadership made our country and our community stronger." -30-
12.07.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 12.07.10U.S. House Salutes Life and Legacy of Earl Wilson, Jr.Clay’s Legislation Designates U.S. Post Office on North Sixth Street to Honor Founder of St. Louis Gateway ClassicWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised U.S. House passage of special legislation to honor the life and legacy of the founder of the St. Louis Gateway Classic Foundation, the late Earl J. Wilson, Jr. H.R. 6400, a bill authored by Congressman Clay, designates the U.S. Post Office at 111 North Sixth Street in downtown St. Louis as the Earl Wilson, Jr. Post Office Building. It was approved today in the U.S. House by a vote of 382-0.In a moving speech on the House floor, Congressman Clay spoke of his long-time friend and mentor. Mr. Clay said, “Earl Wilson, Jr.’s lifetime of achievement in the corporate world, as the founder of the St. Louis Gateway Classic Foundation, as a proud veteran of the U.S. Army, as a father, husband and friend to so many…will live forever. Earl Wilson, Jr. was born in St. Louis on October 9, 1932. He grew up on 11th Street, just a few blocks away from the U.S. Post Office that will hopefully bear his name.Earl Wilson, Jr. founded the St. Louis Gateway Classic, an annual football contest that helped to fund the dreams of deserving students. Without a doubt, his impact on the lives of so many young St. Louisans will endure for generations to come.Over the last sixteen years, the annual gridiron classic featured top historically Black Colleges and Universities. The game itself was a celebration of football tradition and a battle of the bands, but as Earl Wilson often reminded us…”It was more than just a game.”The St. Louis Gateway Classic Foundation effectively raised $2.6 million to send average “C” students to college on full 4-year scholarships.When Earl Wilson, Jr. passed away on October 29th of this year, it was not only an enormous personal loss for my family and I, his death was mourned throughout St. Louis and across our nation. Mr. Speaker, I have been blessed to experience and witness firsthand his commitment to opening the doors of higher education to young people. He selflessly invested his immense talents and boundless energy to building up his community and his country.As we move to recognize the accomplishments of this great humanitarian, father and friend to many, I ask that we pass the underlying bill without reservation and pay tribute to a great American, Earl Wilson, Jr.”The legislation honoring the late Earl J. Wilson, Jr. enjoyed the support and co-sponsorship of 18 Members of Congress, including the entire Missouri congressional delegation.-30-
11.30.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 11.30.10Historic Pigford, Cobell Settlements Bring Justice for Long-SufferingAfrican American & Native American FarmersClays Cites Long History of Discrimination at USDA, Calls for Fairness, Common Decency to PrevailWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised the passage of historic funding for the final concurring Senate amendment to H.R. 4783, the Claims Resolution Act of 2010, which was approved in the U.S. House today by a vote of 256 – 152. Prior to the final vote, Congressman Clay took to the House floor to deliver an impassioned argument in favor of funding the long-delayed settlements for African American and Native American Farmers. In his floor statement, Mr. Clay said, “It is a sad truth that the USDA, under both Republican and Democratic administrations, previously engaged in well-documented discrimination in loan, grant and trust programs.These indefensible actions adversely affected thousands of African American and Native American farmers.Patterns of discrimination resulted in foreclosures of family farms and severe financial hardships…some of which are still being felt to this day.In my home state of Missouri, I have personally met with African American farmers who were misled, discriminated against, and in some cases… deliberately deceived by USDA.These descendants of freed slaves were victimized by their own government… time and time again.In Congress, compensation for Pigford I, Pigford II and Cobell has been blocked by partisan attempts to politicize this issue. This delay is inexcusable.This is not about politics…It is a test of our commitment to honesty, fairness and justice for all.Today, we have a bipartisan opportunity to end this obstruction and finally do the right thing for those whom this government failed for far too long.”The final bill includes provisions that many African American and Native American farmers have been waiting for, for decades. It includes funding to implement both the settlement of the Pigford class action lawsuit involving past discrimination against African American farmers by USDA, and the Cobell class action lawsuit against the U.S. Department of the Interior which seeks compensation for the gross mismanagement of trust funds held for Native Americans. The funding for the Pigford Settlement is estimated to be $1.15 billion, while the Cobell settlement is projected to cost $3.41 billion. The bill’s total cost of $5.4 billion is fully paid for by: 1) unemployment insurance reform; 2) customs user fees and the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act: and 3) rescission of $562 million in surplus funds at USDA.-30-
11.30.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 11.30.10Clay Elected House Democratic Deputy Whip for Midwest Region IVLeadership Post Will Cover Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, Oklahoma, KansasWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri has been elected to serve as one of twelve House Democratic Deputy Whips. Mr. Clay’s elevation to the House Democratic Leadership team comes as he completes a four-year stint as Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and National Archives. “I am so honored that the House Democratic Caucus has entrusted me with this great responsibility,” said the Congressman. “I want to thank my Region IV colleagues for choosing me to represent them on the House Democratic Leadership Team. I look forward to making sure that the voices of our Midwest members are heard loud and clear in our policy discussions and on the steering committee. I am absolutely committed to advancing our Democratic agenda to put America back to work, reduce the budget deficit, ensure the stability of Social Security & Medicare, and safeguard our hard-fought victories on healthcare reform, Wall Street reform and consumer protection.”Mr. Clay will serve as one of twelve regional House Democratic Whips who have responsibility to coordinate votes among delegations in their assigned states. The Congressman will be responsible for leading Region IV, which includes Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, Oklahoma and Kansas.-30-
11.17.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 11.17.10Clay Urges Extension of Emergency Unemployment Benefits Two Million Americans Will Lose Lifeline if U.S. Senate Fails to ActOver 37,000 Missourians at RiskWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today urged his congressional colleagues to extend emergency unemployment benefits before they run out for 2 million Americans. Temporary federal unemployment benefits will begin to expire at the end of November if the U.S. Senate fails to act on legislation already passed by the U.S. House. Without an extension, two million Americans will lose this essential lifeline by the end of the year.“It is morally indefensible and economically foolish to allow these emergency unemployment benefits to expire,” said the Congressman. Over two million Americans are at risk, including 37,200 in Missouri. Never in our history has Congress allowed emergency unemployment benefits to expire when unemployment is still so high. As the economy begins to recover, the most irresponsible thing we could do is to abandon millions of hard-working Americans who depend on these benefits to save their homes, feed their families and keep the heat on, while they search for a new job. It is my hope that my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, will search their consciences and do the right thing without delay. I look forward to supporting its final passage.”According to the U.S. Department of Labor, 15 million Americans are currently unemployed. The national employment rate is 9.6%. However, the minority unemployment rate is far worse, in some areas, twice as high as the national average.-30-
10.14.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 10.14.10 Clay Applauds USDA for Bringing New Federal Jobs toFormer Army Records Center in OverlandUSDA to Establish New Operations Center in St. Louis County-ST. LOUIS, MO- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the US Department of Agriculture will bring 100 full-time jobs and 300 part-time jobs to a newly established USDA Operations Center, to be located at the former Army Records Center at 9700 Page Avenue in Overland. “I want to thank Secretary Tom Vilsack for bringing these good jobs back to the federal facility on Page Avenue,” said the Congressman. "Its great news for St. Louis County because this new center will not only create good jobs, it will also reutilize federal property in an energy efficient, cost-effective way that will benefit our entire community.” The new USDA center will centralize data collection and processing to better serve the statistical needs of agribusiness and family farmers.“This new, centrally located facility will help standardize and streamline the survey operations conducted by USDA around the country, and help ensure that we collect the best and most useful data about agriculture,” said U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack.The new NASS National Operations Center is expected to open in late 2011. It will be located at the Charles F. Prevedel Federal Building, the site of a former U.S. Army federal records center. U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) is currently working on converting the center to a new resource-efficient and environmentally sound facility, which will hold LEED silver certification. The GSA plans to invest $35 million dollars into improvements over the next five years.-30-
09.30.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 9.30.10 Clay Congratulates U.S. Marshal Bill SibertSenate Confirms Long-Time Clay Security Chief to Head U.S. Marshal Service in Eastern District of Missouri WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today congratulated St. Louis Police Detective Bill Sibert, on his confirmation as the new U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Missouri. Detective Sibert was nominated by President Obama this past July. He has almost thirty years of experience in law enforcement. “I want to thank President Obama for selecting my good friend as the new U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Missouri,” said the Congressman. “The U.S. Marshal Service is as old as our republic. It has a legendary history of protecting our nation with exceptional courage, dedication, innovation and integrity. Detective Sibert is exceptionally qualified for this key position. Bill has almost three decades of experience on the streets of St. Louis, where he brought many violent, dangerous criminals to justice. I have absolute confidence that he will do an outstanding job as the new U.S. Marshal in St. Louis. I commend the U.S. Senate for confirming this dedicated public servant.” Across the nation, 94 U.S. Marshals and their deputies provide judicial security for the federal courts, apprehend fugitives, transport federal prisoners, manage seized assets and provide special tactical support units that respond to emergencies anywhere in the United States. Bill Sibert is the 46th U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Missouri.-30-
09.28.2010	Clay, Saint Louis University, St. Louis Public Schools, Solae,NFL Great Isaac Bruce to Challenge Students to “Eat Healthy, Get Moving”Community Unites to Combat Childhood Obesity EpidemicMEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029WHO:Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriFuture NFL Hall of Famer Isaac BruceSaint Louis University Fresh GatheringsSolaeSt. Louis Public Schools, Karen Jones, Principal, Cote BrillianteChef Gerard Craft, award-winning Chef, Niche RestaurantWHAT: LIVE MEDIA EVENT: TUESDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 28, 2010WHERE: Cote Brillainte Elementary School2616 Cora Avenue (corner of Cora & Cottage)GymnasiumSt. Louis, MO 63113 WHEN: DOORS OPEN 9:30AM, MEDIA AVAIL AT 10AMSTORY:Congressman Lacy Clay will bring First Lady Michelle Obama’s “Let’s Move” national campaign to reduce childhood obesity to St. Louis with a fun hour of healthy cooking and fitness. The exceptional visuals will include students from Cote Brilliante School acting as guest chefs as they join with celebrities to craft delicious healthy foods under the supervision of Saint Louis University’s Fresh Gathering’s Program, followed by fitness activities led by Rams Super Bowl hero and future NFL Hall of Famer, Isaac Bruce. President Obama and the Congress of the United States have proclaimed October as "National Childhood Obesity Awareness Month." According to the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, one in three American children is either overweight or obese. Being overweight at a young age can lead to a lifetime of high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes and other chronic conditions. First Lady Michelle Obama has set a goal of solving the problem of Childhood Obesity in a generation so that today's young people can grow up to be healthy, fit adults.Your reporters, photographers and camera crews are invited to attend.
09.27.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MON 9.27.10MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Invites Community to EPA Public Hearing on Clean-up ofFormer Carter Carburetor Superfund Site Dear Friends: I wanted to make our community aware of a very important public hearing that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will be hosting next Monday, October 4th, at 6pm on the future of the Carter Carburetor Superfund Site, a large industrial property at 2800 to 2840 North Spring Street. The Site is a former gasoline and diesel carburetor manufacturing plant. EPA Regional Director Karl Brooks will be on hand to review the latest engineering reports and cleanup options for this highly contaminated Superfund site. I plan to be there to hear your comments. As many of you know, I have been pushing the EPA, the City of St. Louis and the former owners to clean up this very dangerous site which puts children’s health at risk and impedes development for the entire neighborhood. What would you like to see at this site? What kind of jobs would you want to have in your neighborhood? Please join me at the Herbert Hoover Boys & Girls Club, located at 2901 North Grand, to let the EPA know your thoughts. This public hearing is a major step towards a safe solution that protects residents, safeguards children, and prepares the site for badly-needed job creation. I hope you can join me at this important community meeting.Sincerely,Wm. Lacy ClayMember of Congress
09.14.2010	Clay’s Minority Business Opportunities Workshop toHighlight CBCF 40th Annual Legislative Conference Capitol Hill Day Outstanding Panel Will Share Keys to Successful Federal ContractingMEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029TUESDAY, 9.14.10WHO:Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriCongresswoman Yvette Clarke (D) New YorkSenator Roland Burris (D) IllinoisMr. Thomas Green, Deputy Administrator, G.S.AMr. Mark Gazillo, U.S. Department of DefenseMr. David Hinson, U.S. Department of CommerceMr. Tyrone Lassiter, U.S. Veterans AdministrationMr. Kevin Boshears, U.S. Department of Homeland SecurityMr. Brandon T. Neal, U.S. Department of TransportationMs. Joan Robinson-Berry, The Boeing CompanyMr. Nick Owens, CEO Magnolia Strategy PartnersMs. Melissa Dawn Johnson, President, Velvet Suite MarketingMr. Ralph Thomas, Partner, Barton, Baker, Thomas, Tolle, LLPWHAT: LIVE MEDIA EVENT WEDNEDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2010WHERE: CAPITOL VISITORS CENTER, SVC 202/203WHEN: 1 PM, EDTSTORY:On Wednesday afternoon at 1pm EDT, in room SVC 202/203 of the Capitol Visitors Center, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will co-host an unprecedented forum to help minority vendors participate in federal business opportunities. This panel discussion, which is also being presented by Senator Roland Burris (D) Illinois, and Congresswoman Yvette Clark (D) New York, is part of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Hill Day Summit, which kicks off its’ 40th Annual Legislative Conference.“The level of participation by minority vendors with the federal government is shamefully low,” said the Congressman. “Today’s forum aims to improve that by presenting an exceptional panel of contracting and inclusion specialists from several federal departments and agencies. I hope that small and medium-sized, minority-owned businesses will take advantage of this rare opportunity.” Your reporters and camera crews are invited to attend. #30#
08.17.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 17, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING FIVE FINAL PROPOSALS PRODUCED BY THE INTERNATIONAL DESIGN COMPETITION TO REDEVELOP AND ENHANCE THE GROUNDS OF THE JEFFERSON NATIONAL EXPANSION MEMORIAL (GATEWAY ARCH) NOTE: The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. "I want to congratulate the final design teams for their creativity and talent. I'm very pleased that all five proposals envision a new entrance to the Arch along Memorial Drive that will naturally connect it to downtown and a walkway over traffic that will provide easier and safer access to the Arch grounds. Each proposal also respects and preserves the original green spaces that generations of St. Louisans have cherished. Finally, I'm very gratified that this international design competition has recognized and fully embraced the Illinois side of the Mississippi River as a precious natural asset which will play a key role in the future success of this memorial. I look forward to the jury's final decision. And as the Congressman who has the honor of representing the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial in Washington, I will do everything in my power to provide the resources needed to complete the project in time for the 50th anniversary in 2015." -30-
08.10.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 10, 2010MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Applauds Passage of Emergency Education/Medicaid Jobs Bill, Border Security ActHouse Moves Quickly to Save Jobs, Secure the BorderWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised today’s passage of two emergency measures that will help secure the borders and save over 300,000 American jobs. H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, passed the House by a vote of 247 to 161. H.R. 6080, the Emergency Border Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, provides a total of $600 million to strengthen border security and it is fully paid for. It was approved by a voice vote."Today, Democrats in the U.S. House stepped up to save over 300,000 American jobs and help hard-strapped states maintain vital healthcare for our most vulnerable citizens,” said the Congressman. “We accomplished that at no additional cost to the taxpayer. While our Republican friends engaged in political nonsense, we acted to keep qualified teachers in classrooms and help keep health clinics open. That is not pandering to special interests, it is acting to protect every American’s vital interests. I regret that my Republican friends were more concerned about their vacations than doing the right thing for the American people.”“I also want to commend the strong vote to deploy 1,500 additional U.S. Border Patrol personnel to the Southwest to improve border security and combat illegal immigration and drug smuggling," said Mr. Clay.
08.10.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 10, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI,CHAIRMAN, HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE ON INFORMATION POLICY, CENSUS AND NATIONAL ARCHIVESREGARDING $1.6 BILLION IN SAVINGS FOR CENSUS 2010NOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri.Chairman, House Subcommittee on Information Policy,Census and National Archives "This is great news for the Census and for the taxpayers. The $1.6 billion in savings is a tribute to the hard-working Census workers and the extraordinary leadership of Census Director, Dr. Robert Groves. When the numbers come in, I am hopeful that our unprecedented efforts to be inclusive, and to reach out to hard –to-count populations in new, innovative ways, will produce big savings and a more complete count for the American people." -30-
08.05.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 8.5.10 Clay Announces FEMA Approval of Wilson Avenue Buyout in University City$3 Million Disaster Relief Grant Awarded to State Emergency Management AgencyWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency has given final approval to a $3 Million Disaster Relief Grant to help fund the proposed buyout of 26 homes on Wilson Avenue in University City. Congressman Clay has been leading federal efforts to gain approval for the long-sought buyout, for more than two years. “The residents on Wilson Avenue have endured the danger of flash flooding from the River Des Peres for far too long,” said the Congressman. “After the tragic deaths of Louise Bryant and Willie Johnson in 2008, I promised that I would do everything possible to secure the federal funding to deliver Wilson Avenue residents from this urgent danger to lives and property. Today, we have delivered on that promise. I want to especially thank President Obama and our Congressional leadership for responding to my personal request to make the Wilson Avenue buyout a top FEMA priority in Missouri.”The $3 Million in funding for the Wilson Avenue buyout is part of a $5.1 Billion Supplemental Disaster Relief Appropriation approved by Congress last week. FEMA will provide $3,000,000 from the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program to fund the project. This accounts for 75 percent of the total eligible cost of the project. The City of University City will contribute the remaining 25 percent. Actual timelines and rules for executing the buyout will be coordinated by the State Emergency Management Agency and the City of University City. The approved project will acquire/demolish 26 flood-prone residential properties. -30-
07.29.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 7.29.10Clay Intervenes to Save Medicare/Medicaid Waiver for St. Louis Healthcare CentersAcute Care Clinics Receive CMS Waiver/Extension Needed to Keep Serving the Most Vulnerable PatientsWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today announced an extension of a federal demonstration project that will provide up to $25 million for local community health centers who provide care for the regions’ most vulnerable patients. “I am very pleased to announce that the Center for Medicare& Medicaid Services has approved the extension of the State of Missouri’s “Gateway to Better Health” Demonstration Project. The funding provided by this project represents almost 25% of the total budget for our vital community health centers," said the Congressman. “I want to thank U.S. Secretary of Health & Human Services Kathleen Sibelius and the staff of CMS for responding to our urgent efforts, which included the united support of the entire Missouri Congressional Delegation. Today’s decision means that thousands of the uninsured and chronically ill patients from low-income families will continue to receive the quality healthcare that they deserve. Had we not been successful, local emergency rooms would have been overwhelmed with uninsured and underinsured patients.”The extension of the Gateway to Better Health Demonstration Project until 2014 will provide vital federal funding to continue the Regional Health Commission's oversight of this program, in coordination with Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Centers, Myrtle Hilliard Davis Comprehensive Health Center, St. Louis ConnectCare and the St. Louis Integrated Healthcare network.Alan O. Freeman, President and CEO of Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Centers, Inc., commented on the significant of the waiver. “Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Centers is breathing a welcome sigh of relief! Approval of the Gateway to Better Health waiver application helps us continue the level of services we deliver to the underserved and uninsured in the St. Louis region. Denial of the application would have dealt a devastating blow to the health care safety net in our city."The Gateway to Better Health project was launched in 2002 as a way to redirect Medicaid funding that previously went to the now-closed St. Louis Regional Hospital.-30-
07.19.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MONDAY 7.19.10Clay Tells Missouri Gaming Commission that North County ProjectCould Produce Thousands of New JobsProposed Spanish Lake Casino Would Generate 1,500 Full-time Jobs, $300 Million in Total Economic ImpactWASHINGTON, DC- In a letter to the Missouri Gaming Commission supporting a proposed casino & entertainment development in Spanish Lake, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, cited the urgent need to develop new, full-time jobs while still preserving sensitive environmental areas. In his letter, the Congressman said, “I am honored to represent North St. Louis County in Congress. This community has suffered from extremely high rates of unemployment, foreclosures and other economic hardships. By the most conservative estimates, a new casino and family entertainment/recreation development in North St. Louis County would create 3,000 badly-needed construction jobs, at least 1,500 new full-time jobs, and is projected to generate an overall positive economic impact of up to $300 million for St. Louis County, local municipalities and the State of Missouri.”Mr. Clay also directly addressed concerns by some citizens who are worried about the potential negative environmental impact that any proposed development could have on a conservation area which is adjacent to the proposed site. His letter continued, “I am also mindful of significant environmental issues that have been raised by some citizens who are concerned about preserving the fragile wetlands and wildlife areas that are adjacent to the proposed development site. I share their concerns. If the North County Casino proposal wins approval from the Missouri Gaming Commission, the U.S Army Corps of Engineers will conduct an extensive investigation and permitting process. This evaluation will include a public comment period and a formal statement regarding any potential environmental impact. You can be certain that I would not have given my support to this proposal without first being convinced that we can protect the environment and still create the new economic development and job opportunities that North St. Louis County desperately needs.”The Missouri Gaming Commission has received multiple applications from several parts of the state for the final gaming license in Missouri. The process of investigating and evaluating those proposals is expected to take many months.-30-
07.15.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 7.15.10Clay Pushes GOP Senators to Pass Jobs Bills, Extend Emergency Unemployment BenefitsSenate Inaction Leaves Thousands of Missouri Families in DangerWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri today urged GOP Senators, including Senator Kit Bond (R) Missouri, to act immediately to extend emergency unemployment benefits and pass an urgently needed jobs bill, both of which were approved by the U.S. House several weeks ago. The U.S House has repeatedly passed critical legislation that would create jobs, stimulate the economy and extend emergency unemployment benefits, only to have those acts stalled by GOP Senators.“It is morally indefensible and economically foolish to block the extension of emergency unemployment benefits and passage of this critical jobs bill,” said Congressman Clay. “This is about helping millions of Americans, including thousands right here in Missouri, to save their homes, feed their families and find a new job. I simply do not understand how Senator Bond and other GOP Senators can hold these innocent American families hostage because of partisan politics. I hope that they will search their consciences and just do the right thing.”Besides extending emergency unemployment benefits, the urgent legislation that Senate Republicans continue to block would create a $1 billion program to employ 350,000 young Americans and would also provide $2.5 billion in emergency assistance for needy families working in public and private sector jobs.Additionally, $1 billion for the National Housing Trust Fund is being obstructed. When passed, it will provide local communities with urgently needed funds to stabilize neighborhoods hit hard by foreclosures, allowing them to convert vacant houses into safe, affordable rental homes for low-income families.Other provisions in the House-passed jobs legislation that is being blocked by GOP Senators include:• Tax cuts to put money back in the pockets of working families;• Help to restore the flow of credit to enable small businesses to expand and hire new workers by extending small business loan programs;• Expanded career training programs for Americans who are looking for work;• Extended eligibility for unemployment insurance benefits for workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own.-30-
07.08.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 7.8.10Clay Announces Loop Trolley Project Has Been Selected to Receive$24.99 Million in Urban Circulator Federal FundingUnique Public/Private Partnership Will Link Forest Park with U-City LoopWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has selected the much anticipated Loop Trolley project to receive $24.99 Million in funding from the Urban Circulator Program, a part of the Obama Administration's Livability Initiative. The federal funding, which will support a public/private partnership with Citizens for Modern Transit and the non-profit Loop Trolley Company, has been sought by Congressman Clay for almost a decade. The selection is another major federal infrastructure investment that will benefit both the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County. A completed grant application must be submitted through a FTA Regional office before the funds can be awarded. “I am so grateful to President Obama and my former colleague, U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, for supporting this wonderful project with a major federal investment,” said Mr. Clay. “I have been pushing the Loop Trolley for almost ten years because it will connect two great neighborhoods that I am proud to represent, the U-City Loop and Forest Park. This exciting new attraction will serve both visitors and local residents, while generating jobs and lots of fun.” Current plans call for the Loop Trolley to connect with two existing MetroLink stations and nine stops along a two-mile route, running from the Delmar Loop in University City, to the Missouri History Museum at Lindell & DeBaliviere in the City of St. Louis. Planned stops along the route include The Missouri History Museum, Forest Park MetroLink station; Crossroads College Preparatory School; Laurel and Delmar; Delmar MetroLink Station; the Pageant; the Tivoli; the Market and Trinity or Kingsland.IIn addition to strong backing from both Congressman Clay and Congressman Carnahan, the Loop Trolley project is also supported by the East-West Gateway Council of Governments, University City, the City of St. Louis, the Missouri Historical Society, The Loop Business District and numerous neighborhood groups.-
07.06.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: TUESDAY 7.6.10Clay Announces $3.1 Million Recovery Act Grant to Design Upgraded BaggageScreening System for Lambert - St. Louis International AirportUpgraded System Would Find Potential Explosives Faster, Streamline Ticketing ProcessWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, announced today that the Department of Homeland Security has awarded a $3.1 million American Recovery & Reinvestment Act grant to Lambert – St. Louis International Airport to design an upgraded baggage screening system at Terminals One and Two.“I want to personally thank President Obama and U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano for awarding this ARRA grant to make Lambert Airport safer and more efficient,” said the Congressman. “When completed, this new state-of-the-art screening system will find any potential explosives more quickly and it will also speed up the ticketing process by reducing the number of re-scans and physical bag searches,” said Mr. Clay. Congressman Clay and other members of the Missouri Congressional delegation have been working closely with the Airport Commission to find new funding to upgrade Lambert, in order to make it safer, smarter and more passenger-friendly. Today’s announcement is a positive step that will make Lambert more competitive as Congressman Clay continues to work to improve and expand air service in St. Louis. -30-
07.02.2010	MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Says Launch of Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Coverage Gives New Hope to Thousands of MissouriansEnrollment Open for New Coverage Mandated by Healthcare ReformWASHINGTON, DC-As the implementation of the landmark healthcare reform legislation marches forward, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay invited Missourians who have been denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions to enroll in the just announced Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan.“Missouri has decided to offer a unique plan to comply with our new Affordable Healthcare Act,” said the Congressman. “If you have been denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition, and have been uninsured for at least six months, I urge you to take advantage of this new option, said the Congressman. “This plan is the first step in creating an insurance market where you can no longer be denied care when you need it most, and will eventually be replaced by the insurance exchanges in 2014, where health care discrimination will be banned altogether.”MissouriRequirementsPre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan As of July 1st, eligible residents of Missouri will be able to apply for coverage through the state’s Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan program, run by Missouri Health Insurance Pool.To qualify for coverage:You must be a citizen or national of the United States or lawfully present in the United States.You must have been uninsured for at least the last six months before you apply.You must have had a problem getting insurance due to a pre-existing condition.The Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan will cover a broad range of health benefits, including primary and specialty care, hospital care, and prescription drugs. All covered benefits are available for you, even if it’s to treat a pre-existing condition.Premium: $423 to $972 per month Deductible: $1,000 Out of Pocket Limit: $5,950 To request an application for this program, please email your name and mailing address to pcip@hhs.govor mail this information to the address below: Department of Health and Human Services200 Independence Avenue, SWRoom 741G04Washington, DC 20201For more information on the state’s new Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan program, visit https://www.healthcare.govFor more information about how historic Healthcare Reform is already helping millions of Americans, please go towww.lacyclay.house.gov -30-
07.01.2010	MEDIA CONTACTs:Steven Engelhardt (Clay)314-504-4029Paul Sloca (Luetkemeyer)573-886-8929FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY, 7.1.10Clay, Luetkemeyer Call for Oversight Investigation of Safety Lapses at John Cochran VA Medical Center WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-1) and U.S. Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-9) today have requested that the powerful House Oversight and Government Reform Committee begin investigating reports that our veterans’ health was put at serious risk by lapsed safety standards at the John Cochran VA Medical Center in St. Louis. Luetkemeyer and Clay both serve on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. In a letter to Committee Chairman Edolphus Towns and Ranking Member Darrell Issa, Mr. Luetkemeyer and Mr. Clay said the investigation should focus on alleged incidences of improperly cleaned dental equipment at the John Cochran VA Medical Center, which may have led to the exposure of thousands of veterans to bacteria and viruses, such as Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, and HIV between February 1, 2009 and March 11, 2010. “It is deplorable that any assistance less than the best health care available, along with the possible exposure due to unsterile equipment, is the level of care being offered to our veterans. We must determine what were the causes in the break of standards and what the Department of Veterans Affairs plans to do to remedy the situation to see that it does not occur again,” Luetkemeyer and Clay said. Luetkemeyer and Clay also want to know why the VA knew about the possibility of exposure in March 2010, yet failed to notify veterans until June 2010. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee is the main investigative committee in the U.S. House of Representatives.###
06.30.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WEDNESDAY 6.30.10 Clay Says Wall Street Reform & Consumer Protection Act Will Crack Down on Predatory Lending, End Worst Financial Abuses & Protect Working FamiliesHistoric Legislation Will End "Too Big to Fail” Bailouts -WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised the passage of H.R. 4173, the historic Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Financial Protection Act conference report, which was approved in the U.S. House today by a vote of 237 – 192. The compromise bill is the most comprehensive and consumer friendly financial reform legislation since the Great Depression. “Reforming Wall Street is an essential step in restoring America’s economic security,” said the Congressman. “As a member of the Financial Services Committee, I have worked urgently to craft a bill that finally cracks down on predatory lending in a powerful way and also curbs the worst abuses by banks and other financial service providers. These reckless practices led to the near collapse of our economy and the severe recession that we are still striving to recover from.” “It’s time to teach the Wall Street speculators who took outrageous risks with other people’s money that the rules apply to them too,” said Mr. Clay. “This bill ensures that they will no longer be able to abuse and manipulate the financial markets and then ask other hard working people to pay for it.” This legislation creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency, limits the fees banks can charge merchants to process debit-card transactions, empowers oversight bodies like the Securities and Exchange Commission, and helps ensure that taxpayers will never again be asked to bail out big banks and Wall Street firms who broke the rules. The act has been endorsed by the AARP, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Council of Institutional Investors, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Restaurant Association, Public Citizen, SEIU, and US PIRG, among other organizations. Major provisions included in the Wall Street Reform &Consumer Protection Act:Consumer Protections with Authority and Independence: Creates a new independent watchdog, housed at the Federal Reserve, with the authority to ensure that American consumers get the clear, accurate information they need to shop for mortgages, credit cards, and other financial products, and protect them from hidden fees, abusive terms, and deceptive practices. Executive Compensation and Corporate Governance: Provides shareholders with a say on pay and corporate affairs with a non-binding vote on executive compensation and golden parachutes. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Independent Head: Led by an independent director appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. New Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion: At federal banking and security regulatory agencies, the bill establishes an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion that will address employment and contracting diversity matters. The offices will coordinate technical assistance to minority-owned and women-owned businesses and seek diversity in the workforce of the regulators. Interchange Fees, Protects Small Businesses from Unreasonable Fees: Requires the Federal Reserve to issue rules to ensure that fees charged to merchants by credit card companies for credit or debit card transactions are reasonable and proportional to the cost of processing those transactions. Neighborhood Stabilization Program: Provides $1 billion to States and localities to combat the impact on neighborhood of the foreclosure crisis. For more information on the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and many other federal issues, please visit www.lacyclay.house.gov-30-
06.24.2010	MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: THURSDAY 6.24.10Clay Backs Powerful New Iran SanctionsComprehensive Package Targets Revolutionary Guards, Nuclear ProgramWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined a huge bipartisan majority in the U.S. House today to pass H.R, 2194, the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability & Divestment Act. The conference report, which was approved by a vote of 408 – 8, is designed to convince Iran’s leaders to halt their uranium enrichment program and end their pursuit of nuclear weapons.“This is by far the toughest, most comprehensive action against the current Iranian leadership that we have ever taken,” said the Congressman. “It will give the President powerful new tools to persuade them to abandon their reckless and dangerous pursuit of nuclear weapons. I have constantly spoken out for human rights and against the brutality and oppression of the cruel regime in Tehran, and I will continue to strongly oppose Iran’s obvious efforts to obtain a nuclear weapon and the means to deliver it.” The act is also intended to punish foreign companies that sell Iran goods, services or technology that benefit its energy sector.Key aspects of the legislation:--Expands the scope of the 1996 Iran Sanctions Act by penalizing foreign companies that assist Iran's energy sector. While Iran is a major exporter of oil, it relies heavily on imports for its refined products such as gasoline. --Bans U.S. banks from dealing with foreign banks doing business with the Revolutionary Guard or aiding Iran's nuclear program.--Provides a legal framework for states, local governments and other investors to divest their portfolios of foreign companies involved in Iran's energy sector.The legislation also imposes penalties on Iran’s worst human-rights abusers and sanctions foreign entities that provide Iran with the means to stifle freedom of expression. The act also stipulates that the current general prohibition on exports to Iran shall not apply to the export of software and services for personal communications and internet access, which will directly benefit those in opposition to the regime including the “Green Movement”.This powerful package of new sanctions against Iran supports and augments the ongoing multilateral efforts by the U.N. Security Council, the European Union, and others. -30-
06.07.2010	Before the doors opened this morning for Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay’s 5th Annual Career Fair at Harris-Stowe State University, a line of eager job seekers stretched almost around the building. By noon, four thousand guests had come through the doors. Overall attendance numbered more than 5,000 visitors.“This incredible community response exceeded my greatest hopes for this year’s Career Fair,” said the Congressman. “It shows the urgency of unemployment and underemployment in the First Congressional District and throughout the St. Louis region. My number one priority is to help put my constituents back to work and to connect them with job opportunities that they could not take advantage of by themselves. We accomplished that today in a big way, and I am very proud to have helped so many good people who are skilled, highly motivated, and ready to go to work.”Job seekers were able to meet face-to-face with over 100 top St. Louis employers, including: the Boeing Company; GKN Aerospace; Express Scripts; BJC Healthcare Systems; World Wide Technology; the St. Louis Public Library; Wells Fargo Advisors; CVS Pharmacy; Centene; Best Buy; Lumiere Place; Harrah’s; Ameristar; the Social Security Administration, the TSA; the Federal Bureau of Investigation and many local law enforcement agencies.The U.S. Office of Personnel Management joined the Career Fair lineup by providing a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for, over 100,000 federal jobs, worldwide. OPM officials also conducted break-out sessions and provided help to veterans who have special standing for many federal jobs.Congressman Clay’s Fifth Annual Career Fair was presented with the invaluable help and support of Harris-Stowe State University and all of our outstanding vendor partners. We thank them for their participation and we look forward to Career Fair ‘2011.-30-
06.02.2010	Congressman Lacy Clay’s 5th Annual Career Fair will feature over 100 St. Louis area employers from all sectors of the local economy, along with great job opportunities with federal, state and local government agencies. Among the top St. Louis employers who will be on hand are: The Boeing Company; Express Scripts; BJC Healthcare Systems; World Wide Technology; Centene Corporation; Wells Fargo Advisors; Lodging Hospitality Management; CVS Pharmacy; Best Buy; Office Depot; Lumiere Place; Harrah’s; Ameristar; the U.S. Postal Service and many others.Congressman Clay’s Career Fair is set for Monday, June 7th, at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center, 3026 Laclede Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63103. The event runs from 9:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m., and it’s absolutely free.For the third consecutive year, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a one-stop shop at the Career Fair to help interested job seekers learn about, and apply for, over 100,000 federal jobs, worldwide. OPM officials will visit with applicants and conduct special break-out sessions. This year there will be a special session to educate veterans on their priority standing for federal jobs. Last year, over 4,000 guests took advantage of this unique opportunity to meet and interview with top employers,” said the Congressman. “If you’re looking for a job, my Career Fair is the place to be.” For more information, please call Congressman Clay’s office at (314) 367-1970, or visit www.lacyclay.house.gov-30-
05.06.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 6, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Home Star Energy Retrofit Act Will Create Jobs, Cut Dependence on Foreign OilWashington, D.C. – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, today joined a strong, bipartisan majority to pass H.R. 5019, the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act of 2010. The legislation, which was approved by a vote of 246-161, is expected to create nearly 170,000 jobs in construction, retail and manufacturing. The bill would offer rebates for whole-home retrofits, saving American families $9 billion on their utility bills over the next 10 years. “These new Home Star Energy rebates will provide immediate incentives to working families who renovate their homes to become more energy-efficient,” said the Congressman. “Home Star will stimulate our economy by creating good jobs for local energy contractors, builders and hardware store employees. This legislation will also move the United States towards energy independence." The bill features two levels of rebates that will help an estimated 3 million American homeowners.The Silver Star program would provide up-front rebates of up to $3,000 for the installation of proven energy-saving technologies, such as insulation, duct sealing, window and door improvements, air sealing, and advanced water heaters. The Gold Star program rewards homeowners with up to $8,000 for conducting a comprehensive energy audit and substantially reducing their energy use at home. This bill would boost our construction and manufacturing industries in the short term by creating jobs immediately. More than 90% of the materials and products used in eligible measures are made in the U.S. This legislation builds on our previous accomplishments offering tax credits for energy-efficient home improvements in the Recovery Act. Through the end of 2010, homeowners can receive a tax credit for 30 percent of the cost of these improvements, up to $1,500. More information is available at https://www.energysavers.gov/financialThe Home Star Energy Retrofit Act has received bipartisan support, and has been endorsed by a broad range of business, labor, environmental, and consumer groups, including the National Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the National Association of Home Builders. # # #
04.27.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 27, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Urges State and Local Governments to Take Advantage of Earlier Census Counts for Incarcerated Populations to Make Better DecisionsHistoric Agreement with Census Bureau Will HelpRestore Fairness, Reverse a Historic InjusticeWASHINGTON — At a forum sponsored today by the Demos organization, the Prison Policy Initiative, and the National Coalition for Black Civic Participation, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census & National Archives, urged state and local governments to take full advantage of the ground-breaking agreement that he negotiated with the U.S. Census to provide counts of incarcerated populations much earlier than in previous years. The policy change, which moves up the date when counts of incarcerated populations are reported to the states, could potentially result in increased minority representation in state legislatures and local governments. In his comments at the forum, the Congressman noted the major positive impact of the new agreement. “This agreement will provide local and state governments with more accurate information, much earlier in the process,” said Clay. “That will allow them to make better decisions to serve all their citizens fairly. I want to commend U.S. Census Bureau Director, Dr. Robert Groves and his leadership team, for their actions to improve accuracy, restore fairness, and reverse historic patterns of injustice that have been applied to prisoners for many years. The prison population in this country numbers more than two million people. It is made up disproportionately of African Americans, Latinos and other minorities. The Census is now giving state and local governments an opportunity to stand up for fairness and justice by counting incarcerated persons where they resided before sentencing. I encourage them to take full advantage of this decision in order to restore fairness for all their constituents.”Previously, the Census Bureau provided counts from group quarters, like prisons, only after states had finished their redistricting. That resulted in mostly rural districts with prisons getting extra representation in their legislatures. If states take advantage of this more timely information, the impact on the composition of state legislatures, local councils and other elected bodies could be very significant,-30-
04.23.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 23, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Urges U.S. Justice DepartmentTo Investigate Possible Criminal Charges Against Goldman-SachsAsks Attorney General to Investigate Mortgage-Backed Securities Scam That Was Designed to FailWASHINGTON — In a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, along with 60 of his House colleagues, is urging the Department of Justice to pursue justice for the American people by investigating possible federal criminal charges against Goldman-Sachs. Rep. Clay, who serves on the House Financial Services Committee, has harshly criticized government bailouts to Wall Street firms whose reckless financial practices were at the center of the near economic collapse that the nation is beginning to recover from.In his letter to the Attorney General, the Congressman wrote, “If the DOJ is not currently looking into this particular case, we respectfully ask you to ensure that the U.S. Department of Justice immediately open a case on this matter and investigate it with the full authority and power that your agency holds. The American people both demand and deserve justice in the matter of Wall Street banks whom the American taxpayers bailed out, only to see unemployment and housing foreclosures rise.” The full text of the letter to Attorney General Holder appears below:===April 23, 2010The Honorable Eric HolderUnited States Attorney GeneralU.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington, DC 20530-0001Dear Attorney General Holder:The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) announced on Friday, April 16, 2010, that it had filed a securities fraud action against the Wall Street company Goldman Sachs & Co (GS& Co.) and one of its employees for making materially misleading statements and omissions in connection with a synthetic collateralized debt obligation (“CDO”) that GS & Co. structured and marketed to investors. The SEC alleges that:This synthetic CDO, ABACUS 2007- AC1, was tied to the performance of sub-prime residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”) and was structured and marketed by GS & Co. in early 2007 when the United States housing market and related securities were beginning to show signs of distress. Synthetic CDOs like ABACUS 2007-AC1 contributed to the recent financial crisis by magnifying losses associated with the downturn in the United States housing market. 2. GS & Co. marketing materials for ABACUS 2007-AC1 – including the term sheet, flip book and offering memorandum for the CDO – all represented that the reference portfolio of RMBS underlying the CDO was selected by ACA Management with experience analyzing credit risk in RMBS. Undisclosed in the marketing materials and unbeknownst to investors, a large hedge fund, Paulson & Co. Inc. (“Paulson”), with economic interests directly adverse to investors in the ABACUS 2007-AC1 CDO, played a significant role in the portfolio selection process. After participating in the selection of the reference portfolio, Paulson effectively shorted the RMBS portfolio it helped select by entering into credit default swaps (“CDS”) with GS & Co. to buy protection on specific layers of the ABACUS 2007-AC1 capital structure.3. In sum, GS & Co. arranged a transaction at Paulson’s request in which Paulson heavily influenced the selection of the portfolio to suit its economic interests, but failed to disclose to investors, as part of the description of the portfolio selection process contained in the marketing materials used to promote the transaction, Paulson’s role in the portfolio selection process or its adverse economic interests.As the SEC notes, financial manipulations such as this contributed to the near collapse of the U.S. financial system and cost American taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars. On the face of the SEC filing, criminal fraud on a historic scale seems to have occurred in this instance. As an ever growing mountain of evidence reveals, this case is neither unique nor isolated. If both global and domestic confidence in the integrity of the U.S. financial system is to be regained, there must be confidence that criminal acts will be vigorously pursued and perpetrators punished.While the SEC lacks the authority to act beyond civil actions, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has the power to file criminal actions against those who commit financial fraud. We ask assurance from you that the U.S. Department of Justice is closely looking at this case and similar cases to further investigate and prosecute the criminals involved in this, and other financially fraudulent acts. Furthermore, if the DOJ is not currently looking into this particular case, we respectfully ask you to ensure that the U.S. Department of Justice immediately open a case on this matter and investigate it with the full authority and power that your agency holds. The American people both demand and deserve justice in the matter of Wall Street banks whom the American taxpayers bailed out, only to see unemployment and housing foreclosures rise.This matter is of deep importance to us. As you may know, H.R. 3995, the Financial Crisis of 2008 Criminal Investigation and Prosecution Act, has been introduced, which authorizes you to hire more prosecutors, Director Mueller of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to hire 1,000 more agent as well as additional forensic experts, and Chair Mary Schapiro of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to hire more investigators to continue to pursue justice and route out the criminals in our financial system. Part of financial regulatory reform should include removing the criminals and crafting a system that supports those who follow the law.We in Congress stand ready to support you in protecting the American taxpayers from financial crimes such as the fraud that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has charged Goldman Sachs with committing. We ask that you take up this case, and others, to pursue justice for the American people, to put criminals in jail, and seek to restore the integrity of our nation’s financial system.Sincerely,Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriMember of Congress
04.21.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 21, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay: "Landmark Veterans Legislation Provides Help for Wounded Veterans and Their Caregivers," Act Will Support Families, Expand Mental Health Services, Help Women Veterans Receive Equal Access to Care WASHINGTON — Congressman Wm. Lacy (D) Missouri praised passage of the Caregivers and Veterans Health Services Act, which was approved in the U.S. House today by a vote of 239-171. “This bill makes good on our promise to leave no veteran behind. It will improve veterans’ health services by supporting wounded veterans, their families and their caregivers," said the Congressman. “In honor of their sacrifice, this bill will provide well-earned benefits that our nation’s veterans deserve.” The bill will ensure that the VA can better treat veterans suffering from mental health issues, and provides extra resources to combat the tragically high suicide rate. It also includes funding to address the large number of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan who suffer from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. “I am very proud to support this legislation which enjoys the unanimous support of all veterans organizations in my district, including: the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, AMVETS, Paralyzed Veterans of America, the Wounded Warriors Project and the National Military Family Association,” said the Congressman.Major Highlights of the LegislationCaregiver Assistance Caregivers of OEF/OIF Veterans· Caregivers are defined as family members (parent, spouse, child, step-family member, extended family member) or non-family members who live with the veteran. · The caregiver and eligible OEF/OIF veteran must submit a joint application and once accepted, the caregiver receives the following support services:· Training and education;· Counseling and mental health services;· Respite care of no less than 30 days annually, including 24 hour in-home respite care;· Lodging and subsistence payments when accompanying the veteran on medical care visits;· Health care through the CHAMPVA program (Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs); and· Monthly financial stipend as determined appropriate by the Secretary based on the amount and degree of personal care services provided, and no less than the monthly amount of a commercial home health care entity.Caregivers of Veterans of Any Era· Caregivers are defined in the same manner as that of the support program for caregiver of OEF/OIF veterans. However, there is no residency requirement for non-family members. · Support services for caregivers of veterans of any era include the following:· Training and education;· Counseling and mental health services;· Respite care including 24 hours in-home respite care;· Information on the support services available to caregivers through other public, private, and non-profit agencies.WOMEN VETERANS HEALTH CAREThe bill will expand and improve VA health care services for the 1.8 million women who have bravely served their country. It requires the VA to:Conduct a study of barriers to women veterans seeking health care,Educate and train mental health professionals caring for veterans with sexual trauma;Implement a reintegration and readjustment pilot program;Establish a child care pilot program for women receiving regular and intensive mental health care and intensive health care services, or who are in need of such services but do not seek care due to the lack of child care services; Provide up to seven days of post-delivery health care to a new born child of a women veteran. MENTAL HEALTH CAREProvides access to counseling and other mental health centers to any member of the Armed Forces (including members of the National Guard and Reserves, who served during Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom but who are no longer on active duty) andRequires the VA to conduct a veterans’ suicide study. -30-
04.21.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 21, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURION THE PASSING OF DR. DOROTHY I. HEIGHTNOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri“Dr. Dorothy Height inspired four generations of Americans to believe that the promises enshrined in the Constitution would one day be fulfilled for all people. She was a champion in the advancement of equal rights for African Americans and women, and her courage gave hope to millions of Americans. I was privileged to know her as a friend and mentor, and I am mindful that my generation of leaders is standing on the shoulders of giants…none stood taller than her. Dorothy Height’s grace, courage and unyielding commitment to the struggle for justice in this country will continue to inspire the generations to come. We thank God for the great blessing of her remarkable life.”-30-
03.23.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Sunday, March 21, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Historic Healthcare Reform Bill Will Have Huge Positive Impact in Missouri’s 1st Congressional DistrictClay Says Landmark Legislation Will Improve Coverage, Strengthen Medicare, End Worst Insurance Company Abuses and Reduce the Deficit-WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, praised today’s passage of historic health insurance reform legislation that was approved in the U.S. House by a vote of 219 – 210. The legislation, which was championed by President Obama and the House Democratic Leadership, will improve healthcare coverage for millions, cover millions of uninsured Americans, and will end the worst abuses by insurance companies.“This legislation will have a huge positive impact for my constituents,” said the Congressman. “It will immediately improve coverage for everyone who has health insurance, strengthen Medicare for all seniors, cover thousands of uninsured residents and reduce the deficit in the long run,” said Mr. Clay. “This plan also ends gender-based discrimination by stopping insurance companies from charging women more than men for the very same coverage. It controls costs and reduces the deficit. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, this reform package will save taxpayers $138 billion over the next ten years, and over $1.2 trillion over the next twenty years,” said the Congressman. “Finally, this bill will give average Americans the same health insurance choices that Members of Congress and federal employees have. I’m very proud that we have done the right thing for everyone who has health insurance, and for the millions who still need it.”Here is a summary of key benefits and immediate improvements in healthcare coverage provide by this historic legislation:Positive Impact in Missouri’s 1st Congressional District- Improves coverage for 331,000 1st District residents who have health insurance by ending cancellations when you get sick and banning discrimination because of pre-existing conditions;- Gives tax credits to 168,000 families and 15,200 small businesses to help them afford coverage; - Strengthens Medicare for 96,000 seniors, including closing the donut hole; - Extends health insurance coverage to 42,000 uninsured residents; - Guarantees coverage for 10,000 residents with pre-existing conditions; -Protects 1,400 families who were at risk of medical bankruptcies; -Allows 47,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents' insurance plans;-Provide millions in new funding for community health centers. =====Key provisions that will take effect immediatelySMALL BUSINESS TAX CREDITS—Offers tax credits to small businesses to make employee coverage more affordable. Tax credits of up to 35 percent of premiums will be immediately available to firms that choose to offer coverage. Effective beginning for calendar year 2010. (Beginning in 2014, the small business tax credits will cover 50 percent of premiums.)BEGINS TO CLOSE THE MEDICARE PART D DONUT HOLE—Provides a $250 rebate to Medicare beneficiaries who hit the donut hole in 2010. Effective for calendar year 2010. (Beginning in 2011, institutes a 50% discount on brand-name drugs in the donut hole; also completely closes the donut hole by 2020.)FREE PREVENTIVE CARE UNDER MEDICARE—Eliminates co-payments for preventive services and exempts preventive services from deductibles under the Medicare program. Effective beginning January 1, 2011.HELP FOR EARLY RETIREES—Creates a temporary re-insurance program (until the Exchanges are available) to help offset the costs of expensive health claims for employers that provide health benefits for retirees age 55-64. Effective 90 days after enactmentENDS RESCISSIONS—Bans insurance companies from dropping people from coverage when they get sick. Effective 6 months after enactment.NO DISCRIMINATION AGAINST CHILDREN WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS—Prohibits health insurers from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions. Effective 6 months after enactment. (Beginning in 2014, this prohibition would apply to all persons.)BANS LIFETIME LIMITS ON COVERAGE—Prohibits health insurance companies from placing lifetime caps on coverage. Effective 6 months after enactment.BANS RESTRICTIVE ANNUAL LIMITS ON COVERAGE—Tightly restricts new plans’ use of annual limits to ensure access to needed care. These tight restrictions will be defined by HHS. Effective 6 months after enactment. (Beginning in 2014, the use of any annual limits would be prohibited for all plans.)FREE PREVENTIVE CARE UNDER NEW PRIVATE PLANS—Requires new private plans to cover preventive services with no co-payments and with preventive services being exempt from deductibles. Effective 6 months after enactment. (Beginning in 2018, this requirement applies to all plans.)NEW, INDEPENDENT APPEALS PROCESS—Ensures consumers in new plans have access to an effective internal and external appeals process to appeal decisions by their health insurance plan. Effective 6 months after enactment.ENSURING VALUE FOR PREMIUM PAYMENTS—Requires plans in the individual and small group market to spend 80 percent of premium dollars on medical services, and plans in the large group market to spend 85 percent. Insurers that do not meet these thresholds must provide rebates to policyholders. Effective on January 1, 2011.IMMEDIATE HELP FOR THE UNINSURED UNTIL EXCHANGE IS AVAILABLE (INTERIM HIGH-RISK POOL)—Provides immediate access to insurance for Americans who are uninsured because of a pre-existing condition - through a temporary high-risk pool. Effective 90 days after enactment.EXTENDS COVERAGE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE UP TO 26TH BIRTHDAY THROUGH PARENTS’ INSURANCE – Requires health plans to allow young people up to their 26th birthday to remain on their parents’ insurance policy, at the parents’ choice. Effective 6 months after enactment.COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS—Increases funding for Community Health Centers to allow for nearly a doubling of the number of patients seen by the centers over the next 5 years. Effective beginning in fiscal year 2010.INCREASING NUMBER OF PRIMARY CARE DOCTORS—Provides new investment in training programs to increase the number of primary care doctors, nurses, and public health professionals. Effective beginning in fiscal year 2010.PROHIBITING DISCRIMINATION BASED ON SALARY—Prohibits new group health plans from establishing any eligibility rules for health care coverage that have the effect of discriminating in favor of higher wage employees. Effective 6 months after enactment.HEALTH INSURANCE CONSUMER INFORMATION—Provides aid to states in establishing offices of health insurance consumer assistance in order to help individuals with the filing of complaints and appeals. Effective beginning in FY 2010.CREATES NEW, VOLUNTARY, PUBLIC LONG-TERM CARE INSURANCE PROGRAM—Creates a long-term care insurance program to be financed by voluntary payroll deductions to provide benefits to adults who become functionally disabled. Effective on January 1, 2011.-30-
03.18.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 18, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029FLOOR STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURISUPPORTING FINAL PASSAGE OF HEALTHCARE REFORM LEGISLATIONNOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri delivered thisEvening on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives"Madame Speaker, I rise this evening as we prepare for this historic vote, and I'm here to tell you the people of Missouri’s 1st District want us to act and pass this healthcare reform legislation now.Here’s why:It will improve coverage for 331,000 residents who have health insurance. It will give tax credits to 168,000 families and 15,000 small businesses to help them afford coverage. It will improve Medicare for 96,000 seniors, including closing the donut hole. -It will extend coverage to 45,500 uninsured residents. -It will guarantee coverage for 10,000 residents with pre-existing conditions. -It will protect 1,400 families from medical bankruptcies.====This plan ends gender-based discrimination by stopping insurance companies from charging women more than men for the very same coverage.It controls costs and reduces the deficit. The CBO announced today,It will cut the deficit by $138 billion over the next ten years and over $1.2 trillion over the next twenty years. And, finally, this bill will put average Americans, families and their doctors back in charge of their own health decisions. No will ever again face being denied coverage because they are sick or lose their job.Madame Speaker…The time has come for this Congress to act with courage, to do the right thing for everyone who has health insurance, and for the millions who still need it.Thank you."
02.23.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 23, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029In Support of KFUO 99.1 FM “Classic 99”A Floor Statement byCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriFebruary 23, 2010 “Madam Speaker, I stand today on behalf of my constituents and with my friend and colleague Congressman John Shimkus to raise further concern about the pending sale and format change of Classic 99. As St. Louis’ only classical radio station, Classic 99 is a true asset to our city. As Congressman Shimkus noted, the sale of KFUO 99.1 FM by the Lutheran Church—Missouri Synod is currently under review by both the Media Bureau and the FCC. While we certainly do not wish to exact undue influence on either of these agencies, our constituents have made clear to us their concerns, and we agree that this loss will be a blow to the wealth of our region’s culture and economy. We hope that these negative impacts will be considered while reviewing this sale. We have seen that losing the arts can wreak havoc on a community. If Classic 99 is converted to a different music format, the cultural and economic consequences will be dismal. The world-renowned St. Louis Symphony Orchestra will lose airtime and its chief advertising venue, forcing gifted musicians and staff to suffer even more pay cuts and freezes. Losing Classic 99 will result in a cultural deficit as well. 94% of readers polled by the St. Louis Post-Dispatch feel that the loss of Classic 99 “takes away a vital voice for the arts in this community,” and will detrimentally affect their ability to support local artists. Arts education organizations throughout my district, like the Opera Theater of St. Louis, the St. Louis Art Museum, and the Touhill Performing Arts Center, will lose their only major arena for audience-building, live broadcasts and fund-raising. This loss of revenue will hinder arts and music education in the district, further impairing opportunities for our young people to be enriched through the arts. We know that arts education gives youth self-confidence and increases academic achievement. We simply can not afford to sacrifice these opportunities, and I am deeply troubled by the idea that more educational outlets for our children will be put into jeopardy by this move. I firmly agree with my colleague that the negative impact these cultural and economic changes will have on the local community should play a role in determining the sale of 99.1. Thank you Madam Speaker, and I yield back my time.” -30-
02.12.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 12, 2010MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Applauds Census Bureau Decision to Change Reporting Procedure for PrisonersSays Decision Will Improve Accuracy, Restore Fairness, Reverse a Historic InjusticeWASHINGTON — Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census & National Archives has negotiated a ground-breaking agreement with the U.S. Census Bureau that will change how census counts of prisoners are reported to state and local governments. The policy change, which moves up the date when counts of incarcerated populations are reported, could potentially result in increased urban and suburban representation in state legislatures and local governments. “I want to commend U.S. Census Director Dr. Robert Groves and his staff for acting to improve accuracy, restore fairness and reverse historic patterns of injustice that have been applied to prisoners for many years,” said Chairman Clay. “The impact of this decision is enormous. States and local governments will now have the opportunity to do the right thing and prevent the overrepresentation of areas where prisons are located."Previously, the Census Bureau provided counts from group quarters, like prisons, only after states had finished their redistricting. That resulted in mostly rural districts with prisons getting extra representation in their legislatures.At the urging of Congressman Clay, Census officials will now release data on prison populations to states much earlier than in previous national counts. If states take advantage of this more timely information, the impact on the composition of state legislatures, local councils and other elected bodies could be very significant.“The prison population in this country is made up of a disproportionate number of African Americans and Latinos,” said Mr. Clay. “The Census is now giving state and local governments an opportunity to stand up for fairness and justice. I encourage them to take full advantage of this decision.”-30-
01.28.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 1.27.10MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURI REGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS "Tonight, the President showed why he is such a remarkable leader. He reaffirmed our shared commitment to keep America safe, to restore economic security for the middle class, to create and save millions of jobs, and to help small businesses grow again. He also laid out a clear path towards energy independence and creating millions of new jobs in the 21st Century Green Economy.Congress and President Obama are totally focused on helping the private sector create new jobs and holding the line on spending. From my perspective, we should do more than just freeze domestic spending, we should freeze all spending levels across the board, with the exception of Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and emergency unemployment benefits.The President and our Democratic leadership are also committed to continuing the fight to provide real healthcare reform for everyone who has insurance, and providing affordable and accessible coverage for the almost 50 million Americans who are still uninsured.President Obama also spoke with great strength and clarity about his constant efforts to keep America safe by refocusing our military power against real threats and restoring key alliances around the world. Peace and security for the United States requires a proper mixture of military strength and smart, tough diplomacy.Like President Obama, I did not come to Washington to do small things. We were elected to restore the American dream for middle class families who have struggled for far too long. That fight continues." -30-
01.20.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 20, 2010MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Secretary Solis, Congressman Clay Announce$6 Million Recovery Act Grant to Help Missouri Veterans Train for Green Energy JobsMissouri’s State Energy Sector Partnership Will Create Over 800 Training Slots in Clean Energy Sector-Washington, D.C. - U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MO-1 announced today that the State of Missouri has been awarded a $6 million Recovery Act Grant to create two new Green Energy Sector training programs that will focus on veterans. “I want to congratulate Governor Nixon and his staff at the Missouri Division of Workforce Development for winning this Recovery Act Grant to help veterans train to compete in the 21st Century Green Economy,” said Congressman Clay. “I am proud to support their efforts to create training and job opportunities for veterans in solar, wind and geothermal energy. I’m also very pleased that this ARRA grant will allow Missouri’s Heat and Frost Insulators & Allied Workers Unions to greatly expand the capacity of their apprenticeship programs to help veterans and displaced workers train for clean energy jobs.”The $6 million Recovery Act grant will directly support implementation of two training programs that emphasize veterans. The Renewable Energy Training Institute in St. Louis will create a veterans priority training program. And the Heat and Frost Insulators & Allied Workers Union will provide 480 incumbent journeymen and apprentices with enhanced qualifications in commercial and industrial energy efficiency assessment and cost estimating.Additional training slots that will be created include:- (120) Veterans and/or qualified spouses of active duty military personnel will complete the Renewable Energy Training Institute Veterans Certificate of Completion and Apprenticeship Program. - (150) Participants will graduate from renewable energy degree programs at associate’s degree-granting institutions, and; - (60) Participants will complete minors or certificate programs from within degree granting engineering programs.The State Energy Sector Partnership and Training Grants are designed to teach workers the skills required in emerging industries, including energy efficiency and renewable energy. Thirty-four awards ranging from approximately $2 million to $6 million each are being made to state workforce investment boards in partnership with their state workforce agencies, local workforce investment boards or regional consortia of boards, and One-Stop Career Center delivery systems. -30-
01.13.2010	NEWS NEWS NEWSFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 13, 2010MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Secretary Solis, Secretary Chu & Congressman Clay Announce Almost $50 Million in Recovery Act Grants to Advance Biofuels Development & Green Energy Jobs in St. LouisDonald Danforth Plant Center Wins $44 Million to Convert Green Algae into Biofuel, Better Family Life and Alternative Solutions Awarded $5.6 Million for Green Energy Jobs Training-Washington, D.C.- U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, U.S. Secretary of Energy Dr. Steven Chu and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MO-1 announced today that the St. Louis region has been awarded almost $50 million in Recovery Act Grants to advance the development of biofuels from green algae and to train 900 unemployed workers to compete in the 21st Century Green economy. The Department of Energy has awarded the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center a $44 million Recovery Act Grant to spur the development of biofuels, and the Department of Labor has awarded $5.6 million to Better Family Life and Alternative Solutions for training unemployed workers from high poverty areas for Green Energy Jobs.“Today, I am so pleased to announce almost $50 million in Recovery Act funds for the St. Louis region. This is terrific news that will support job growth and worker retraining,” said Congressman Clay. “I want to congratulate the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, Better Family Life and Alternative Solutions. Their good work will lift up the unemployed in our most impoverished neighborhoods and it will establish the St. Louis region as a leading center for the development of renewable fuels and other green energy technologies. This shows the power of what life sciences and 21st Century green development can mean for our region’s economy and our nation’s energy independence. I was proud to support all three of these grant winners and I want to personally thank President Obama, Secretary Solis and Secretary Chu for focusing the Recovery Act to support these wonderful projects in the St. Louis area.”Better Family Life and Alternative Solutions were awarded $5.6 million in Recovery Act grants from the Department of Labor to train the unemployed in high poverty areas for green energy jobs. Theses funds are targeted at worker retraining, especially for those individuals who come from difficult backgrounds that make it harder for them to find a job. Better Family Life and Alternative Solutions are two of only 38 Pathways Out of Poverty Grant winners from across the country. The training that they will provide for green energy jobs in construction, rehabbing, weatherization, and renewable energy technologies will elevate both the jobs skills and life skills of unemployed workers.The National Alliance for Advanced Biofuels and Bioproducts (NAABB) ($44 million)—Led by the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, will develop a systems approach for sustainable commercialization of algal biofuel (such as renewable gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel) and bioproducts. NAABB will integrate resources from companies, universities, and national laboratories to overcome the critical barriers of cost, resource use and efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions, and commercial viability. It will develop and demonstrate the science and technology necessary to significantly increase production of algal biomass and lipids, efficiently harvest and extract algae and algal products, and establish valuable certified co-products for renewable fuel production. -30-
01.13.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 13, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURION THE EARTHQUAKE IN HAITINOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri"As the extent of the terrible devastation and the scope of this emergency becomes clearer, I want to express my support and sympathy for the people of Haiti. As the President has already said, we will do whatever is needed to save lives and to help Haiti recover from this tragedy."===Additional Information & Resources:Looking for RelativesFamilies of Americans living in Haiti who are trying to find the status of their loved ones are encouraged to contact the State Department at 1-888-407-4747. This line is experiencing a high volume of calls at this time, so some callers may receive a recording. To better handle these requests, the State Department has established an e-mail address as well: Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov.A top priority of the State Department is accounting for the thousands of American citizens who are currently in Haiti. US citizens in Haiti have been urged to contact the Embassy via email at ACSPaP@state.gov to request assistance or call the Embassy's Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672.The Red Cross has also set up a Family Links website managed by the ICRC, in cooperation with the tracing services of the Haitian Red Cross Society and of National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies throughout the world, to assist in the process of restoring contact between separated family members: * Family Links website for Haiti» * Cette page en français» More Resources * White House» * State Department» * USAID»Assistance for Haiti Relief EffortsThe State Department has established a dedicated web page that offers advice for anyone wishing to provide assistance to those affected by the earthquake: * State Department Haiti Earthquake website»The Center for International Disaster Information (CIDI) provides information and guidance in support of appropriate international disaster relief: * Center for International Disaster Information (CIDI) website» Haitian Earthquake Relief Fraud AlertThe FBI has issued a fraud alert, reminding Internet users who receive appeals to donate money in the aftermath of Tuesday’s earthquake in Haiti to apply a critical eye and do their due diligence before responding to those requests. Past tragedies and natural disasters have prompted individuals with criminal intent to solicit contributions purportedly for a charitable organization and/or a good cause. Therefore, before making a donation of any kind, consumers should adhere to certain guidelines, to include the following: * Do not respond to any unsolicited (spam) incoming e-mails, including clicking links contained within those messages. * Be skeptical of individuals representing themselves as surviving victims or officials asking for donations via e-mail or social networking sites. * Verify the legitimacy of nonprofit organizations by utilizing various Internet-based resources that may assist in confirming the group’s existence and its nonprofit status rather than following a purported link to the site. * Be cautious of e-mails that claim to show pictures of the disaster areas in attached files because the files may contain viruses. Only open attachments from known senders. * Make contributions directly to known organizations rather than relying on others to make the donation on your behalf to ensure contributions are received and used for intended purposes. * Do not give your personal or financial information to anyone who solicits contributions: Providing such information may compromise your identity and make you vulnerable to identity theft.Anyone who has received an e-mail referencing the above information or anyone who may have been a victim of this or a similar incident should notify the Internet Crime Complaint Center at www.ic3.gov.
01.11.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 11, 2010 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING MR. MARK McGWIRENOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "I spoke with Cardinals management today and they briefed me on Mark McGwire's admission. I'm glad he finally told the truth and has taken personal responsibility for his mistakes. He owes that to the Cardinals and to baseball fans everywhere. From my perspective, the issue is now closed and we move on. I wish him well in his return to the dugout as the Cardinal's new batting coach."-30-
01.06.2010	Secretary Solis and Congressman Clay Announce Recovery Act Grants to Retrain Displaced WorkersUAW Labor Employment & Training Corporation to Receive $3.2 Million to Retrain Laid-Off Autoworkers for Green Jobs-Washington, D.C.- U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MO-1 announced today that the UAW Labor Employment & Training Corporation will receive a $3.2 million Recovery Act grant to retrained displaced St. Louis area auto workers for green jobs in the energy and manufacturing sectors. In a conference call with media this morning, Congressman Clay praised President Obama and the Secretary for their leadership in worker retraining.In his statement, the Congressman said, "I want to personally thank President Obama and Secretary Solis for their leadership in finally making worker retraining a serious national priority, instead of just an after-thought. In my district, we have thousands of laid-off skilled trades people who have tremendous talent. We have autoworkers, sheet metal workers, and many other union craftsmen who are among the most skilled and productive workers in the world. They want to go back to work, and this retraining will help them get there. I'm also really pleased to see the broad community partnership that is part of this project, drawn from across our region and from labor, government and the business community. One of the goals of the Recovery Act is to help displaced workers transition to new areas that are going to be part of the 21st Century green economy that will drive job growth. These two grants reaffirm that commitment and I know they will help families create a more secure future for themselves, and for our country. The President, Secretary Solis and I agree that our skilled manufacturing base is a precious national asset that America cannot afford to lose."In addition to the grant to retrain laid-off autoworkers, Secretary Solis and Congressman Clay also announced a $4.9 million national Recovery Act grant that has been awarded to the Sheet Metal Workers International Association and their local affiliates to retain displaced workers to retrofit older buildings and homes to make them more energy efficient. That will include worker retraining in St. Louis and East St. Louis.-30-- FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 6, 2010MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029
01.05.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 5, 2010MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Thousands Tune in to Clay’s Tele-Town Hall on Healthcare ReformCallers Express Strong Support for Public Option, Covering the Uninsured & Ending Insurance Company Abuses-Washington, D.C.- Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MO-1 used the latest technology to interact with thousands of constituents recently to discuss the historic healthcare reform legislation that passed the House and Senate in December and is now moving towards reconciliation. Almost ten thousand callers joined Congressman Clay for the hour-long town hall meeting, conducted entirely by telephone. “This new technology is remarkable because it allows me to reach out to and connect with thousands of constituents at the same time, " said the Congressman. “For a critical issue like healthcare reform, that’s essential.”Congressman Clay gave callers a brief overview of the differences between the House and Senate versions of the healthcare legislation, and he expressed the urgency of moving forward without delay. “In the 1st Congressional District 81,000 people have no health insurance, said Mr. Clay. “10, 000 of my constituents are barred from purchasing health insurance due to pre-existing conditions; nearly 9,000 of our seniors are forced to pay full drug costs due to the Medicare Part D doughnut hole.And just last year there were 1,400 medical bankruptcies. Under the House bill, we would be able to cover about 50,000 uninsured people in my district. You will no longer be denied coverage based on pre-existing medical conditions. This bill will immediately cut the Medicare Part D donut hole in half, and eliminate it over the next five years.The bill would also cap annual out-of-pocket expenses for individuals and families helping to ensure that no one will face the prospect of financial ruin due to high health care costs.Additionally, for the first time in history Medicare will be allowed to negotiate bulk pricing for prescription drugs. The final bill that emerges from the conference committee will not be perfect, but it will be a giant step towards reforming our broken healthcare system.”-30-
12.11.2009	NEWS NEWS NEWSFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 11th, 2009MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Proposes Bridging Bank Institutions to Target Huge Disparities in Financial ServicesNew Banking Legislation Would Create Pathway Towards Restoring Credit and Financial Stability for Unbanked and Underbanked Consumers-Washington, D.C.- A stunning new report by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has prompted quick legislative action by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, who is cosponsoring H.R. 3171, The Bridging Bank to Recovery Act of 2009. The legislation will establish a Bridging Bank depository institution to help struggling Americans who have been victimized by subprime financial services. “We must break the cycle of predatory lending that unfairly targets people of color and wreaks havoc on everyday Americans,” said Mr. Clay. “Bridging Banks will offer a practical solution for individuals in need of banking services, loan assistance, credit counseling, and financial literacy.”The Congressman cited alarming data in the FDIC report which dramatized the problems across the nation and in his own district in Missouri. According to the FDIC report, thirty-one percent of black St. Louis households are unbanked, compared to 1.1 percent of unbanked whites. Nationwide, the study found that nine million American households are completely unbanked, and an additional 21 million households are underbanked. “It is outrageous that the St. Louis area leads the nation in the highest percentage of unbanked African American residents and also has the largest disparity between unbanked minorities and the general public,” said Mr. Clay. “Until we fully address this gross disparity, minority consumers will be condemned to a life of debt, financial exploitation and little or no access to affordable credit.”The Bridging Bank depository institution created by H.R. 3171 will serve a dual purpose. First, it will serve as a tool for mortgage loan restructuring, and attend to the foreclosure crisis that currently plagues the urban and rural housing markets. The institution will have the ability to restructure principal loan amounts, based on the homeowner’s ability to pay and on enhanced criteria created specifically for these targeted customers.This new institution will also provide a full range of financial services and products to consumers lacking the adequate credit to enroll in mainstream banks. The bill includes mandatory financial literacy courses and counseling for consumers who partake in these services, allowing traditionally underserved customers to graduate to mainstream institutions.“Access to a bank account and financial literacy are central to financial freedom,” said Mr. Clay. “This is exactly the kind of measure that will help St. Louis and the entire nation. I am proud to cosponsor this important legislation.”-30-
12.02.2009	NEWS NEWS NEWSFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 2, 2009 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIREGARDING PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ADDRESS TO THE NATION ON AFGHANISTANNOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri“President Obama reaffirmed his commitment to refocus our military might on the very real threat of Al Qaeda and their Taliban allies in Afghanistan which has been allowed to grow over the last six years while we fought an unnecessary war in Iraq. Afghanistan, and the lawless areas along the border with Pakistan, has always been the real front line of the fight against terrorism. While I remain deeply concerned about this deployment and the additional American casualties that are sure to follow, I was pleased to hear the President clearly define our vital national security interests, identify reachable mission goals, and lay out a reasonable timeline to turn this fight over to the Afghan government. I pledge my full support for our brave soldiers, and for their families, who await their safe return."
12.01.2009	NEWS NEWS NEWSFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 1st, 2009 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Congressman Clay, U.S. Census Director Dr. Robert M. Groves Kick Off Missouri’s Census in Schools Program at Gateway Elementary in St. LouisWASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MO-1, and U.S. Census Bureau Director Dr. Robert M. Groves kicked off the Census in Schools program for Missouri today at Gateway Elementary in St. Louis. Flanked by St. Louis Mayor Francis G. Slay, St. Louis Public Schools Superintendent Dr. Kelvin Adams, St. Louis City Comptroller Darlene Green and other community leaders, Mr. Clay, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and National Archives said,"Gateway Elementary is a fantastic school, and that’s why we’ve come here to kick off the Census in Schools program,” said the Congressman. “Each of you in this room represents thousands of dollars in federal funds for St. Louis over the next decade. We need your help. All you have to do is make sure that your family completes, and mails back, their 2010 census form. Your participation in this census is an investment in our nation’s future.” Dr. Robert Groves, U.S. Director, added, "The Census in Schools program offers creative ways for students of all ages to think about their community and how this important constitutional responsibility can impact it," Groves said. "Kids cannot vote but the census offers a real way they can actively participate in our democracy." The Census in Schools program, “2010 Census: It’s About Us,” gives schools a wide range of free, optional, standards-based lesson plans on subjects related to the census, ranging from math to social studies. The program is designed for students in kindergarten through 12th grade and will reach all 118,000 schools and 56 million students nationwide.The innovative project is designed to enlist young people in helping their families participate in Census 2010.-30-
11.20.2009	Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriRoland Martin, Host of Washington WatchWHAT:ST. LOUIS AREA VIEWERS, TUNE INTO CHARTER DIGITAL CABLE CHANNEL 124LIVE CABLE CAST, SUNDAY 10AM, CST Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, will be a featured guest this Sunday morning on TV One’s Washington Watch with Roland Martin. The Congressman will discuss preparations for Census 2010 and upcoming legislation to create a Consumer Financial Protection Agency. TV One presents the public affairs interview series Washington Watch with Roland Martin. Hosted by TV One political editor, Essence columnist and CNN analyst Roland Martin, the show features members of the Congressional Black Caucus, White House officials and other policy makers who represent Black communities.WASHINGTON WATCH WITH ROLAND MARTINTV ONETHIS SUNDAY: 11.22.0911AM EST10AM CSTREBROADCAST: 5PM EST, 4PM CSTCHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS FOR CABLE AND SATELLITE LISTINGS IN YOUR AREA. NOTE TO ST. LOUIS AREA VIEWERS:WASHINGTON WATCH WITH ROLAND MARTIN AIRS ON SUNDAY AT 10AM CST ONCHARTER DIGITAL CABLE CHANNEL 124.IT WILL BE RE-BROADCAST AT 4PM ON SUNDAY AND AT 5AM ON MONDAY. 11.23.09 WHO:
11.17.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 17, 2009 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay/Graves Move To Extend and Expand Teacher Tax CreditDeduction for Out of Pocket Expenses Expires in DecemberWASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MO-1, and his Missouri colleague, Congressman Sam Graves (R) MO-6, today introduced legislation to extend and expand the teacher tax deduction for teachers who purchase classroom supplies for their students with their own money. Clay and Graves propose extending the tax deduction to 2017 and increasing the amount deductable for full-time teachers from $250 to $500. It would also create a new tax deduction of $250 for part-time teachers."Great teachers shape our children's future and make many sacrifices to prepare them for success in life," said Congressman Clay. "Our nation’s teachers deserve compensation for going above and beyond their responsibilities to ensure that our students can compete in today’s global economy."“Every year, teachers across Missouri dip into their own pockets to purchase classroom supplies they believe will benefit their students and create a better learning environment,” said Graves. “We should support teachers who are going the extra mile for our children.”Full-time teachers are currently eligible for a $250 tax deduction if they personally invest in classroom supplies for their students. This tax deduction will expire at the end of the 2009 without Congressional action. The legislation has bi-partisan support.In addition to Clay and Graves, the bill is co-sponsored by Congressmen Todd Akin of Missouri, Bob Etheridge and Mike McIntyre both of North Carolina. H.R. 4075 has been referred to the House Ways and Means Committee. -30-
10.30.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 30, 2009 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Treasury Secretary Geithner and Congressman Clay Announce New Market Tax Credits to Rebuild Neighborhoods and Create JobsCity of St. Louis, Habitat for Humanity International,US Bank and McCormack-Baron-Salazar to be Awarded $250 Million in Tax Credits-Washington, DC – As part of a $5 billion national investment to grow jobs and revive depressed neighborhoods, Secretary of the Treasury Tim Geithner and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, have announced today that four St. Louis organizations are among the 90 recipients nation-wide who have been selected to receive New Market Tax Credit funding. In St. Louis, the St. Louis Development Corporation, Habitat for Humanity, McCormack-Baron-Salazar and US Bank will receive $250 million. “This is tremendous news for the City of St. Louis, Habitat for Humanity, McCormack-Baron-Salazar and US Bank, said the Congressman. “The New Market Tax credits, which are partially funded by the Recovery Act, are a key tool to help cities, and those groups and entities who build up our cities, to encourage private sector investment that creates jobs, transforms distressed neighborhoods and makes financing available for difficult projects in urban areas. I want to personally thank President Obama and Secretary Geithner for being so responsive to my efforts to win this funding for the St. Louis region, and I want to congratulate all the recipients.”Congressman Clay is proud to announce these awardees for the New Market Tax Credit program in the St. Louis region:St. Louis Development Corporation (City of St. Louis)$65 millionSLDC will offer a variety of financial products with flexible structuring alternatives to meet the unique needs of each project. For non-real estate businesses, SLDC will offer equity investments and below-market interest rate loans ranging from $500,000 to $15 million. For real estate businesses, SLDC will offer equity or equity equivalent investments ranging from $500,000 to $5 million, and loans ranging from $500,000 to $15 million, including below-market interest rate loans and leveraged loans.Habitat for Humanity International$50 millionHabitat for Humanity International will use its NMTC allocation to provide favorable loan rates and terms to Habitat for Humanity International, Inc. organizations (Habitats) nationwide, including St. Louis City and County, to develop for-sale housing for low-income homeowners, built by the homeowners with assistance from volunteers. These local Habitats will provide no-interest mortgages to the homeowners. The NMTC loan product is the most flexible and low-cost financing that HFHI can make available to the local Habitats. With NMTC funding, the Habitats will be able to significantly increase the number of homes they build -- enabling the Habitats to create sustainable neighborhoods in areas suffering from disinvestment and blight.US Bank Community Development Entity$95 millionUSBCDE will provide equity, equity-like debt and favorable loan rates and terms for real estate development and operating businesses. The target borrower will be a qualified business who will develop or rehabilitate commercial real estate as rental or owner occupied property. USBCDE offers complete financing packages from construction to permanent financing.McCormack-Baron-Salazar Urban Initiatives$40 MillionMBS Urban Initiatives CDE will use its NMTC allocation to invest in low-income communities across the country, with a focus on developments that can accelerate revitalization by bringing jobs and economic activity back to these neighborhoods. MBS-CDE will offer a combination of below-market debt and patient equity investments to developments which can demonstrate significant impact, both in their own right and as catalysts for others to follow. MBS-CDE will invest in commercial, mixed-use, community service and for-sale developments that enhance new housing efforts taking place in distressed communities.The NMTC program, established by Congress in December 2000, permits individual and corporate taxpayers to receive a credit against federal income taxes for making equity investments in investment vehicles known as Community Development Entities (CDEs). The investor receives a credit totaling 39 percent of the cost of the investment. CDEs must apply to the Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund, which administers the NMTC program, to compete for this allocation authority.-30-
10.27.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 27, 2009 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Calls for Swift Justice Department Inquiry into Alleged Racial Discrimination Against Six Washington University Students at Chicago Club-Washington, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, has asked Attorney General Eric Holder and the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice to conduct a swift inquiry into an alleged incident of racial discrimination against six Washington University students at a Chicago restaurant/nightclub last week.In a letter to the Attorney General and other federal law enforcement officials, the Congressman wrote, “On October 17, 2009, six students from Washington University experienced apparent racial discrimination at The Original Mother’s Restaurant & Nightclub in Chicago, Illinois. After having reached a group deal with Mother’s, all 200 Washington University students in attendance gained admission to the restaurant with the exception of six African American males, two of whom serve in high-ranking positions in student government, the organizers of the event.These six students, who included the class’s Internal Vice-President and Treasurer, were refused admission by management for wearing “baggy jeans,” a reported violation of the establishment’s policy. Upon hearing this, previously admitted white students displayed the even “baggier” pants they were wearing to the management. The 6 black students offered both to change their clothes and show proof of enrollment at the University in order to gain admission, just at their colleagues had. These efforts proved futile, as the management declared the young men would still be refused entry. Regis Murayi, Senior Class Treasurer and one of the six young men refused admittance, later traded pants with a white student. It should be noted that the white student is significantly shorter than Mr. Murayi, causing the pants to appear even “baggier” on him. The white student then returned to the bar and was admitted by the same manager who had refused Murayi. Such an example solidifies that this event was not simply an exercise in business policy, but rather an incident of racial intolerance. Subsequent research by the students revealed 8 informal complaints, by previous patrons, of racial injustice at the very same establishment, dating all the way back to 2005.In this day and age, it is imperative that action be taken to rebuke those in our midst who continue discriminatory practices and policies. As the home of the first African American President, Chicago’s reputation ought not be desecrated by the illegal and immoral conventions of Mother’s. Mr. Murayi has filed a formal complaint with the Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division and I stand beside him in urging a thorough and timely inquiry into the event in question. Long has the battle been waged against racial discrimination, and I applaud the students of Washington University for their perseverance in the pursuit of justice.”
10.09.2009	STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURICONGRATULATING PRESIDENT OBAMA ON WINNING THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE NOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri "This is a proud day for America. I want to congratulate President Obama on this remarkable recognition of his bold and brave leadership. The President has restored American credibility around the world. His vision of a more peaceful planet and his personal commitment to strive for human rights and justice for all people is in keeping with the best traditions of other great American leaders who have shared this special honor. With this award, the President now joins the ranks of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., President Jimmy Carter, President Theodore Roosevelt and President Woodrow Wilson. I am very proud of my friend, and I am very proud for our country.” -30-
09.23.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 23, 2009 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay to Host Forum on Exploring Minority Business Opportunities Within the Federal Government Today at 2PM,Rm. S-208, Capitol Visitors CenterPanel Offers Minority Vendors Direct Access to the Departments of Defense, Commerce, Transportation, Homeland Security,U.S. Census Bureau & Small Business Administration-WASHINGTON, DC. – This afternoon at 2PM in Rm. S-208 of the Capitol Visitors Center, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will host his second annual Congressional Black Caucus forum aimed at increasing minority participation in federal business opportunities. The forum is part of the Caucus’ 39th Annual Legislative Conference. This year, the Congressman will be joined by Senator Roland Burris (D) Illinois, and Congresswoman Yvette Clarke (D) New York.“The level of participation by minority vendors with the federal government is shamefully low,” said the Congressman. “Today’s forum aims to improve that by presenting an exceptional panel of contracting and inclusion specialists from several federal departments and agencies. I hope that small and medium-sized, minority-owned businesses will take advantage of this rare opportunity.” The panel will be moderated by Mr. David Hinson, the National Director of the Minority Business Development Agency.Panelists Scheduled to AppearBrandon Neal, Department of Transportation:Director- Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business UtilizationDijon Ferdinand, US Census BureauSenior Contract Specialist and Small Business SpecialistLawrence ToperrofDirector of Procurement for the U.S. HouseLinda Oliver, Department of DefenseActing Director DOD Office of Small Business ProgramsKevin Boshears, Department of Homeland SecurityDirector, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization.Christy Jackiewoic, GSAProgram Analyst, Office of Small BusinessJoan Robinson-Berry, Boeing CompanyDirector – Strategic Work Placement & Small Business Liaison OfficerCalvin Jenkins- SBADeputy Associate Administrator for Government Contracting and Business Development
09.15.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 14, 2009 MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Urges U.S. Secretary of Transportation to Grant Waiver forSeparate DBE Goals for New Mississippi River BridgeLetter to Secretary LaHood Cites Disparities in Minority Participation in Stimulus Spendingas MODOT and IDOT Fail to Request DBE Separation Waiver for $640 Million Project-WASHINGTON, DC. – In a letter to Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri is urging the U.S. Department of Transportation to grant the Missouri and Illinois Departments of Transportation a waiver to exercise separate hiring goals for minority-owned and women-owned businesses for the new $640 million Mississippi River Bridge. Clay’s personal appeal to Secretary LaHood comes as the Federal Highway Administration has launched an Inspector General’s investigation into disparities in minority hiring in stimulus projects across Missouri. Mr. Clay’s effort to win separate DBE goals comes as it was revealed late today that the waiver has not yet been requested by MODOT and IDOT.In his letter to Secretary Lahood, Congressman Clay stated, “It is imperative that action be taken to remove the inequities that currently exist within IDOT and MODOT. Recently, the Missouri Department of Transportation released a report which detailed that out of the $198 million spent in stimulus-funded projects, $2.7 million (1 percent) went to minority firms, while $15.3 million (8 percent) was awarded to women-owned firms.” Mr. Clay’s letter continues, “MODOT’s own analysis has revealed that a disparity currently exists between the availability of minority-owned firms to do work on the project and their actual utilization. According to MODOT, 62% of DBE firms are minority-owned. However, only 12% of minority-owned firms received work, contrary to 38% of certified women-owned firms having received 88% of the work. I strongly recommend that the U.S. Department of Transportation separate the DBE goals for women and minorities for the new Mississippi River Bridge project.”Late Monday, Congressman Clay learned that both MODOT and IDOT are awaiting the results of a study before requesting any DBE separation waiver from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The Congressman expressed his outrage at the delay in the waiver request. “I was astounded to learn that MODOT and IDOT have failed to request the waiver, even with the deadline for contracting on the new $640 million Mississippi River bridge project fast approaching. It would be outrageous and completely unacceptable to allow this contracting process to go forward without having this waiver in place. I urge MODOT and IDOT to immediately file this urgent separation waiver request.”-30-
08.12.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, August 12, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Congressman Clay Salutes Memory ofMargaret Bush WilsonWashington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri issued this personal statement today on the passing of his long-time friend and civil rights legend, Attorney Margaret Bush Wilson:“The St. Louis community and our entire nation have lost a giant, and I have lost a dear friend. Margaret Bush Wilson was a tireless champion for civil rights and for the pursuit of equal justice under the law for all people. Her life was spent in the struggle to advance freedom and equality for African Americans, women, and all those who were excluded from the mainstream. She blazed a courageous legal trail marked by landmark decisions and major advances that opened up equal opportunity for all Americans. Through her leadership and determination, Margaret inspired countless people, including myself. She was a mentor to many of us who serve in public life and I know that we will miss her wisdom and warm friendship. My thoughts and prayers are with her family and many friends, and I know that her memory will continue to inspire us for years to come.”# #
07.30.2009	House Passes Rural Homeowners Protection ActClay’s Legislation Will Help Rural Families Refinance Mortgages Through USDA Guaranteed Loan ProgramWashington, DC - The U.S. House has passed legislation authored by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, which will make refinancing easier for rural homeowners who hold mortgages issued by private lenders. H.R. 2043, the Rural Homeowners Protection Act of 2009, will allow rural families to refinance mortgages obtained from private lenders through a provision of a USDA guaranteed loan program.In remarks on the House floor, Mr. Clay, who sponsored the bill on the House Financial Services Committee, said, “Under current law, rural families who obtained a mortgage from a private lender for the purpose of acquiring or constructing a single-family residence are not permitted to refinance such loans through the Section 502 Rural Housing Guaranteed Loan program. My bill would give the Secretary of Agriculture the authority to permit the refinancing of these mortgages through the Section 502 Rural Housing Guaranteed Loan program. Rural families who meet current income and geographic criteria would be eligible to refinance their private loan.”The current foreclosure crisis is hitting rural America hard, as well as cities and suburbs. However, low-income rural homeowners are 98.3 percent successful when serviced through the Section 502 Single Family Housing direct or guaranteed loan programs. The foreclosure rate in both of these programs is below 2 percent as compared to the 5-6 percent subprime foreclosure rate overall.Mr. Clay added, “This new authority for the Secretary of Agriculture will provide much needed relief to our rural housing community and complement efforts by President Obama to stabilize communities by helping struggling homeowners stay in their homes.”The Rural Housing Service estimates that this new authority would significantly increase loan volume under the Section 502 guaranteed loan program. To address this issue, Mr. Clay’s bill also gives the Secretary of Agriculture the authority to charge a higher guarantee fee than the 2 percent fee that is permitted under current law to help ensure that the expected increased loan volume does not require additional tax dollars. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has projected that the bill is revenue-neutral.The bill now moves to the U.S. Senate for further consideration.# #
07.29.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri thanked his colleagues for passing H.R. 3072, a bill he authored that names the U.S. Post Office at 9810 Halls Ferry Road in St. Louis County to honor the late renowned educator, Coach Jodie Bailey.In his remarks on the House floor, Mr. Clay spoke of the impact that Coach Bailey had on generations of student athletes. “The St. Louis Community lost one of its true giants with the passing of Coach Bailey at the age of 94. He was an icon in the Public High League for five decades. During his career, he coached at Vashon, O’Fallon Tech and Northwest High schools,” said the Congressman. “Coach Bailey accumulated an outstanding total of 828 wins and only 198 losses in a great career that spanned 42 seasons. He coached many great sports stars, including the late Elston Howard, of the New York Yankees, and Jo Jo White, of the Boston Celtics. Coach Bailey was inducted into the Missouri Sports Hall of Fame in 1989. He put an emphasis on teaching basketball fundamentals and he was treasured for making personal investments in his student’s lives, which they remember to this day.”The bill now moves on to the U.S. Senate for further consideration.# #
07.28.2009	“I’m proud that stimulus funds flowing through the COPS program will help make our community safer and keep more officers on the job,” said the Congressman. “The City of St. Louis, along with University City; Pagedale; Kinloch; Jennings; Country Club Hills; Bel Ridge and Berkeley will receive a total of over $10.3 million in COPs Recovery Act grants. That will allow the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department to hire or rehire 50 police officers. And the seven county municipalities will be able to add officers as well. Our law enforcement officers are brave men and women who protect our community by risking their lives every day. I’m pleased that we can show our gratitude by saving their jobs and creating more job opportunities with these vital funds provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.Nationwide, $1 billion in grants are being awarded under the Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), COPS Hiring Recovery Program (CHRP). Grants will be made to more than 1,000 law enforcement agencies in all 50 states.CHRP grants will provide 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years for newly-hired, full-time sworn officers (including filling existing unfunded vacancies) or for rehired officers who have been laid off, or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date, as a result of local budget cuts.COPS Recovery Act Grant Awards in St. Louis City and County include:St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department $8,678,550Bel-Ridge Police Department $152,262 Berkeley Police Department $316,492 Country Club Hills Police Department $115,731 Jennings, City of $305,074 Kinloch Police Department $90,604 Pagedale Police Department $127,798 University City $559,785
07.24.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay today praised House passage of the FY2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education as well as the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bills which include a total of $1.5 million for special projects in St. Louis City and County. “I’m proud to be able to secure funding that will help to create jobs, spur economic development in distressed neighborhoods, uplift at-risk young people, promote healthy lifestyles and support our vital cultural institutions,” said the Congressman. Economic Development & Community Projects sponsored by Congressman Clay in the House-passed bills include:HUD/Transportation The Ville Market Place: $300,000The Ville Market Place is the product of a community based effort to provide fresh, locally grown produce and promote healthy lifestyles in the inner city. It was developed by a collaborative process involving local residents, the American Institute of Architects, the Midwest Development LLC along with other civil and business leaders as part of an effort to revitalize the Historic Ville neighborhood in North St. Louis.Natural Bridge Avenue (MO Route 115) Connection Planning, Engineering & Environmental Project: $500,000This project will provide companion funding to complete the necessary engineering, planning and environmental work for a transportation project that will provide a five lane “connection” from the newly designated “Western Entrance” of Lambert St. Louis International Airport at the intersection of Cypress Rd. and US Interstate 70 to the airport proper. The project will also serve as a catalyst for economic development opportunities within the area by directly linking the Cypress Rd.\US Interstate 70 Interchange to the airport complex.Labor/Health & Human ServicesHarambee Institute Arts Workshops: $325,000The Harambee Institute serves at-risk children of Missouri’s 1st Congressional District. Many students are falling behind in statewide achievement tests. These children need to be engaged in more productive leisure activities. Harambee aims to engage and motivate students by improving their literacy skills thru dance, music and cultural arts.Prostate Cancer Screening Program at People’s Health Centers: $150,000According to Missouri Department of Health, African American men in the city of St Louis have a 2.5 times greater risk of dying from prostate cancer than Caucasian men. The Peoples Health Centers (PHC) program will help to overcome this disparity by reaching out and providing information, testing and health care service. This program will serve 1,549 men annually and provide them with PSA and DRE testing. Staff will track abnormal test results and make appropriate referrals to the Siteman Cancer Center. Saint Louis Art Museum -Reinstallation of the American Art Collection: $225,000The Reinstallation of the American Collection will be a premier project, and a critical part of the future of the Art Museum. As part of the re-envisioning of the Museum that will occur with the building of a new expansion for contemporary art, the American Collection will be re-installed in a dedicated area of the third floor of the original building. Individual paintings will be evaluated to see if cleaning or restorative work is necessary before they are rehung. The reinstallation of this unique collection will greatly enhance the experience of museum patrons and students, while also preserving this remarkable collection of American works.
06.30.2009	Washington, DC -NOTE: The following is afirst-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri “Today the U.S. House has taken an important step towards protecting our environment, ending America’s dependence on foreign oil, creating millions of new jobs and establishing the United States as a leader in renewable energy. While this bill is far from perfect, it does support a market-driven approach to create new, greener energy technologies that will ultimately provide greater economic security and enhanced national security. The legislation also provides rebates, credits and grants for low-income families, non-profits and neighborhood organizations to help everyone share in a more secure energy future. Ultimately, this bill is about investing in a better world for our children and grandchildren and reaffirming our faith in American innovation and creativity.”
06.30.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that four Federally Qualified Healthcare Centers who serve thousands of patients in the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County will receive over $5.5 million in Recovery Act grants.“I am so pleased to announce this extra help for People’s Health Centers, Myrtle Hilliard Davis Comprehensive Health Centers, Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Centers and Family Care Health Centers.” said the Congressman. “President Obama and I are both committed to expanding access to quality primary and specialty care, especially in communities like ours, where we still suffer from major healthcare disparities among African Americans, Latinos, new immigrants and low-income families. These Recovery Act grants will help upgrade outdated facilities, purchase vital new equipment, expand the use of electronic medical records and help these centers become more energy efficient. Far too many of my constituents suffer from higher rates of heart disease, cancer, diabetes, kidney disease, HIV/AIDS, and other chronic illnesses. As the ranks of the uninsured grow due to the economic emergency, community healthcare centers are essential to closing that gap. I'm proud to join the President in providing this much-needed boost at such a critical time.”Recovery Act Community Healthcare Grants for Capital Improvements and Facilities in the St. Louis City and St. Louis County include:People's Healthcare Centers$1,543,145Myrtle Hilliard Davis Comprehensive Health Centers$1,329,575Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Centers $1,686,610Family Care Health Centers $941,705
06.26.2009	Washington, DC - This afternoon, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, announced that the Federal Transit Administration has approved $7.5 million in operating funds assistance for Metro. The money to help restore critical bus lines in the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County will come from the Congestion Mitigation & Air Quality Fund. “This is a great victory for public transportation in the St. Louis region, “said the Congressman. “I want to salute my colleagues in the Missouri congressional delegation for their united support of this urgent request. Reliable and safe bus service is critical to getting people to work, especially in these very tough economic times. These newly approved funds, along with other supplemental dollars and federal recovery funds will allow Metro to restore a significant portion of the cuts to bus service. That's great news for riders, area businesses and the hard-working employees at Metro.”
06.19.2009	Washington, DC - “Today the U.S. House has sent a strong message to the brave people of Iran that we support the values of freedom, human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law. The courage and commitment of millions of ordinary Iranian citizens, even in the face of repression, is truly inspiring. I condemn the ongoing violence against demonstrators by the Iranian government and pro-government militias, as well as the ongoing government suppression of independent news organizations and personal electronic communications via the Internet and mobile phones. Finally, I want to affirm the universality of individual rights and the importance of democratic and fair elections. As the Iranian regime reacts to unfolding events, it should bear in mind that the whole world is watching."
06.12.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay applauded today’s overwhelming bipartisan support for H.R. 1256, The Family Smoking Prevention & Tobacco Control Act, which was approved in the U.S. House by a vote of 307 – 97. “This is a giant step forward for protecting public health,” said the Congressman. “Today’s vote finally puts the federal government on the side of prevention and saving young people from nicotine addiction. It gives the FDA the power to regulate the advertising, marketing and manufacturing of tobacco products, which is long overdue. No other legal product harms so many Americans. Tobacco-related diseases are the number-one cause of preventable death in this country, and we need to do a better job of protecting our children and families. I can think of no other public health measure that will save as many lives and improve the quality of life for so many Americans as this very important bill. I want to congratulate our leadership for advancing this measure in a bipartisan way and I look forward to President Obama’s signing the bill soon.”The legislation allows the FDA to develop restrictions on the advertising and promotion of tobacco products. The bill also requires tobacco companies to disclose the ingredients in each product and gives the FDA the power to demand changes to those ingredients. The bill requires more specific health warnings and reinstates the 1996 rule restricting the marketing of tobacco products to youth.The bipartisan bill is supported by more than 1,000 organizations, including the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, American Heart Association, American Lung Association and the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. Phillip Morris USA, the U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company as well as six small tobacco product manufacturers have also come out in support of the legislation.
06.09.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri applauded the passage of H.R. 2751, the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Act, commonly known as the "Cash for Clunkers" act. The bill passed the U.S. House today by a final vote of 298- 119. "This is a great idea for car buyers, auto makers and local dealers. It will spur the purchase of over 1 million newer, more efficient vehicles which will save manufacturing jobs, clean our air, and make the United States less dependent on foreign oil. The “Cash for Clunkers” program will allow consumers to trade in their old, gas-guzzling cars for vouchers worth up to $4,500," said the Congressman. "This is a smart program that will help save money at the pump as we reduce consumption by over 250 million gallons of gas. It goes a long way towards getting Americans back to work and behind the wheel of a cleaner, more environmentally-friendly car.”The legislation provides rebates for cars and trucks in the following four categories:· Passenger Cars: The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 4 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 10 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher.· Light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 5 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher.· Large light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 15 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 1 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher or trade-in of a “work truck.” New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher.· Work Trucks: The old vehicle must be a pre-2002 model. New vehicles in the same or smaller weight class will get a $3,500 voucher.The bipartisan legislation is supported by a broad coalition that includes the AFL-CIO, UAW, car dealers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers. The bill now moves on to the U.S. Senate for further consideration.
06.09.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, praised St. Louis area optometrists for their overwhelming support of the national InfantSEE program, which offers free comprehensive eye and vision assessment for infants between six to 12 months of age. The public health initiative, which is a partnership between the American Optometric Association Foundation and the Vision Care Institute, is designed to provide no-cost professional eye care for infants nationwide, regardless of family income.The free program runs June 8th – 12th.“Good vision is a precious gift that many of us take for granted, especially in young children. This wonderful program to screen infants very early in life will identify problems while they are still treatable, preventing vision loss and other health problems,” said the Congressman. “I want to thank the AOA and all the participating OD’s for providing this tremendous public health service.”To learn more about InfantSEE and to access a complete list of participating providers, please visit www.InfantSEE.org orcall 888-396-3937. In the St. Louis Metro Area, the following eye care providers will offer no-cost InfantSEE® eye assessments from June 8 – 12, by appointment:St. Louis CountyBarbara Aalbers 621 S. New Ballas Rd. 314-251-6430Dr. Erin Sullivan 621 S. New Ballas Rd., # 5006B 314-432-5478Dr. Michael Antoine 2493 St. Louis Galleria 314-862-1525Dr. Thebe Bagwasi 3270 Telegraph Rd. 314-845-3164Dr. Cheryl Davidson 12401 Olive Blvd., #206 314-628-9100Creve CoeurDr. Thomas Cullinane 12619 Olive Blvd. 314-579-0909FlorissantDr. Paul Whitten 875 St. Francois 314-839-2400City of St. LouisDr. Frank Fontana 16 Hampton Village Plaza, Ste. 249 314-353-6171NormandyDr. Ralph Garzia8100 Natural Bridge Rd. c/o UMSL314-516-5358NormandyDr. Jeffrey Weaver 7800 Natural Bridge Rd. c/o UMSL 314-516-5131CrestwoodDr. Steven Rosen 474 Crestwood Plaza 314-968-3660OverlandDr. Sara Schmitz 2533 Woodson 314-423-3874
06.08.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and the National Archives said today that he was pleased with the progress of the critical Address Canvassing phase of Census 2010 preparations.“I was pleased to be briefed by the Census Bureau that they are actually ahead of the July 17th deadline for completing Address Canvassing,” said Chairman Clay. “This essential step towards achieving a complete count could not be accomplished without the hard work and talent of thousands of highly qualified applicants who are now working long hours to complete this task. While I’m very pleased that Address Canvassing has gone well for the most part, it’s too early to declare the operation a complete success because there are still some unanswered questions. The Commerce Department Inspector General and the Government Accountability Office have both expressed concern about some listers not following procedures for Address Canvassing and some shortcomings in quality control measures. We can’t unequivocally say that the process has been a success until we know that the Bureau caught any missed addresses and the Master Address File is complete. However, so far so good, and I am pleased with the results.”The Government Accountability Office will brief subcommittee staff in the near future. Chairman Clay plans to convene a hearing on Address Canvassing later in the summer.
06.02.2009	Washington, DC - A throng of more than 4,000 job seekers flocked to Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay’s 4th Annual First District Career Fair at Harris-Stowe State University. This year’s version of Career Fair, which was presented in partnership with Congressman Russ Carnahan (D) Missouri, was bigger, better and even more timely because of the very difficult economic situation.“The number of high-quality, exceptionally experienced workers was just incredible and so was the community response," said Congressman Clay. “We've already received reports from multiple vendors of how pleased they were to meet so many talented potential employees at one time. Our attendees this year had great skills, great attitudes and they were ready to go to work. I am so pleased we were able to provide real opportunities for so many people. Unemployment and underemployment are always huge issues in the First Congressional District, and this year the need for quality jobs is even more urgent. I want to thank Congressman Carnahan for his help, and I especially want to thank Dr. Henry Givens and the staff of Harris-Stowe State University for all their help and support in producing this great event."Job seekers were able to meet with over 100 top St. Louis employers, including: the Boeing Company; GKN Aerospace; Ameren; BJC Healthcare Systems; Best Buy; Office Depot; Lumiere Place; Harrah’s; Ameristar; the U.S. Postal Service; the U.S. Census Bureau; UPS; the St. Louis Public Library; and the FBI.For the second consecutive year, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management joined the Career Fair lineup by providing a one-stop shop for interested job seekers to learn about, and apply for, over 100,000 federal jobs, worldwide. OPM officials also conducted special break-out sessions on federal employment opportunities.Congressman Clay’s First District Career Fair was presented with the help and support of Congressman Russ Carnahan, Harris-Stowe State University, and all of our outstanding vendor partners. We thank them for their participation and we look forward to Career Fair ‘2010.
05.27.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, May 27, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay’s 4th Annual First District Career Fair Will FeatureOver 100 Top Employers, Direct Pipeline to Federal JobsFree Event Set for Monday, June 1st at Harris-Stowe State UniversityWashington, DC - Congressman Lacy Clay’s 4th Annual Career Fair will feature the top employers in St. Louis from all sectors of the local economy, along with great job opportunities with federal, state and local government agencies. Among the 100 top St. Louis employers who will be on hand are the Boeing Company; Ameren, BJC Healthcare Systems; Best Buy; Office Depot; Lumiere Place; Harrah’s; Ameristar; the U.S. Postal Service; the U.S. Census Bureau and UPS. Clay’s Career Fair is set for Monday, June 1st, at Harris-Stowe State University’s Emerson Physical Education & Performing Arts Center, 3026 Laclede Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63103. He will be joined by Congressman Russ Carnahan (D) Missouri. The event runs from 9:30 a.m. - 2:30 p.m., and it’s absolutely free.“If you’re looking for a job, or just looking for a better job, my Career Fair is the place to be,” said the Congressman. “Last year, over 4,000 guests took advantage of this chance to meet and interview with St. Louis’ top employers. And once again, in addition to our wonderful local employers, we are offering a direct pipeline to over 100,000 federal jobs currently open all over the world.”For the second consecutive year, the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a one-stop shop at the Career Fair to help interested job seekers learn about, and apply for, over 100,000 federal jobs, worldwide. OPM officials will visit with applicants and conduct special break-out sessions on federal employment opportunities."This really is a chance to help out a large number of people who are looking for opportunity." said Congressman Carnahan. "Congressman Clay's job fair is sure to be a success again this year, since his event provides a one-stop shop for thousands of area residents back in the job market and on the job hunt."For more information, please call Congressman Clay’s office at (314) 367-1970, or visit www.lacyclay.house.gov# #
05.20.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, May 20, 2009Contact: Steven Englehardt: 314.504.4029Congressman Clay has requested that the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee include the following projects in the upcoming surface transportation authorization legislation.Washington, DC -1- North-South MetroLink Extensions – this project would add a 9 mile extension to the St. Louis MetroLink system, extending it from I-55/Broadway to the intersection of Natural Bridge and Newstead in the City of St. Louis $650,000,0002- Delmar “Loop” Trolley - this project would provide a fixed lane trolley that links the entire length of the “Loop” on Delmar Boulevard to the MetroLink station located at the history museum in Forest Park $45,000,0003- Dual Path System for Forest Park – this Bicycle/Pedestrian project would improve public safety and mobility in the Park and fulfill one of the goals of the Forest Park Master Plan. It calls for completion of the perimeter dual path system by reinstalling the dual pedestrian bike path in the area near the Zoo that has been disrupted by construction on I-64 and installing new Way Finding signage throughout the park. $2,410.1504- Springdale MetroLink Station – this project would construct a new MetroLink Station on the existing light rail line that will provide transit access to the NorthPark Area, a mixed used development in North St. Louis County $2,800,0005- North County Connector – this project would complete the outer belt from Aubuchon/Shakelford to Highway 367 in northeast St. Louis County $1,200,0006- St. Louis County Core Arterial Road Infrastructure – this project would resurface several key arterial roads in North St Louis County and provide safer curb ramps and crosswalks - $1,010,4007- Construct Sidewalks in North St. Louis County near Larimore Elementary School, Highland Elementary School, Glasgow Elementary School, Lee Hamilton Elementary School, Salem Lutheran School and Jury Elementary School $1,510,4008- Natural Bridge Road Extension – this project would construct a five lane connection from the newly designated “Western Entrance” of Lambert St. Louis International Airport at the intersection of Cypress Road and US Interstate 70 to the airport proper - $13,000,0009- University of Missouri Regional Transportation Center – This project would allow the University of Missouri-St. Louis to become a university transportation center under the Department of Transportation’s Research and Innovative Technology Administration. This Center would enhance regional business and economic development by improving efficiency, safety and environmental impact of the intermodal transportation systems in the St. Louis region. $5,000,000# #
05.20.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, May 20, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Credit Card Holders Bill of Rights Wins Final PassageClay Says Bill Protects Consumers from Abusive & Deceptive PracticesWashington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri applauded today’s final passage of H.R. 627, the Credit Card Holders Bill of Rights by a huge bipartisan majority of 361 – 64. The sweeping consumer protection act now goes to President Obama for his signature. “Today, we acted to protect every consumer who carries a credit card. For far too long, hard-working Americans have been victimized by deceptive fees, uncontrolled interest rate hikes, and abusive practices which drive families deeper into debt,” said the Congressman. “This bill levels the playing field and returns fairness, plain language and transparency to the credit card industry.” Key provisions of the Credit Card Holders Bill of Rights:Bans most interest rate increases on existing balances and ensures notice of interest rate hikes going forward on new purchases;Requires that bills be sent 21 days before the due date;Prohibits charging fees for payments by phone, mail or web;Bans over-the-limit fees unless a consumer opts-in in advance;Bans due-date tricks;Requires payments to be applied fairly to the highest interest rate balance first; and,Strengthens credit card protections for young people, preventing them from starting out life with huge credit card debts.President Obama plans to sign the Credit Card Holders Bill of Rights before the Memorial Day recess.# #
05.12.2009	For Immediate ReleaseTuesday, May 12, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Congressman Clay to Lead Community Day of Service toClean Up and Restore Historic Greenwood Cemetery, Saturday, May 16thWashington, DC -M E D I A A D V I S O R YMEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Congressman Clay to Lead Community Day of Service toClean Up and Restore Historic Greenwood Cemetery, Saturday, May 16th WHO:Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriEtta Daniels, Friends of Greenwood CemeteryLynn Jackson, Dred Scott Heritage FoundationBob Clark, President & CEO, CLAYCOMarvin Steele, Sr., President, Urban SolutionsSt. Louis County Parks & RecreationAustin Layne MortuaryAmerenUEWHAT: LIVE MEDIA EVENT: SATURDAY, MAY 16. 2009NEWS EVENT AT 11AM (UNVEILING OF HARRIET SCOTT MONUMENT)VOLUNTEER CLEAN UP ONGOING 8AM – 12 NOONSITE: GREENWOOD CEMETERY,6571 ST. LOUIS AVENUE,HILLSDALE, MO 63121STORY:Congressman Clay will lead a Community Day of Service with volunteers to cleanup and restore historic Greenwood Cemetery, the resting place of Harriet Scott, and over 50,000 African Americans. Greenwood, which opened in 1878 as St. Louis’ first designated Black cemetery, has fallen into disrepair. Besides Harriet Scott, Greenwood is the final resting place of freed slaves, Colored Troopers from the Civil War, Buffalo Soldiers, veterans from WWI, WWII, Korea and Vietnam, and many leading African American citizens.The Friends of Greenwood Cemetery are lovingly reclaiming and restoring this treasure, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Congressman Clay has assembled a team of volunteers and community resources to help the Friends of Greenwood with their efforts. Special support and technical assistance will be provided by CLAYCO, Urban Solutions, Austin Layne Mortuary, St. Louis Count Parks & Recreation and AmerenUE.To join the Community Day of Service,volunteers should call(314) 772-7466.First-person statement from Congressman Clay in support of this Community Day of Service:"Greenwood Cemetery is an undiscovered African American history treasure that we are coming together to restore and reclaim. I'm honored to help the Friends of Greenwood with this Community Day of Service, and I hope everyone will join us to clear brush and clean up the site. We will also unveil a monument to a true civil rights hero, Harriet Scott. So I invite the community to join us on Saturday. To volunteer, please call the Friends of Greenwood Cemetery at 772-7466.” Your reporters and camera crews are invited to attend.If you require additional information, please give us a call.# #
05.08.2009	For Immediate ReleaseFriday, May 8, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Mortgage Reform & Anti-Predatory Lending Act Will Protect Homeowners,Punish Abusive LendersClay Says Ending Predatory Lending is Key to Restoring Stability in Housing MarketWashington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised House passage today of H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform & Anti-Predatory Lending Act, which was approved by a vote of 300 – 114. Congressman Clay, who serves on the Financial Services Committee that shaped this legislation, applauded tougher rules for both lenders and borrowers included in the bill.“This bill attacks one of the root causes of the recession, predatory lending and the abuses in the housing market that led to the collapse in home prices and the huge tide of foreclosures,” said Mr. Clay. “It protects consumers from the most abusive mortgage practices and it also protects renters who can be left homeless because of foreclosures. Our bill stops lenders from steering borrowers into loans that they can’t afford and it establishes national standards for the protection of borrowers, ensuring that those who entrap consumers into predatory loans are liable for adjusting the loan’s terms and paying the borrower’s costs. The law also prevents borrowers from deliberately misstating their income on loan applications. Finally, this bill requires those who securitize loans to third parties to retain interest in at least 5% of the credit risk of each loan they sell or transfer. This provision will ensure that, at every link of the chain, there is an interest in seeing that the loan is repaid and that the homeowner does not go into foreclosure.”The Congressman continued, “The truth is that our lax laws failed to keep up with the complexities of the financial services industry and allowed the greed of some lenders to abuse millions of American families. This bill corrects that and along with the just-passed Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights and the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act, it is a key component in our drive to restore integrity and stability in the housing market and the financial services industry."# #
05.06.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, May 6, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Says C-17 and F-18 Programs Vital to Keeping America SafeBipartisan Effort Underway to Secure Jobs at BoeingNote: The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri Washington, DC - "The F-18 and C-17 programs are vital to keeping America safe and making certain that our armed services have the tools that they need to respond to any national security threat. In St. Louis, Boeing accounts for 16,000 jobs, many of them in my district. So along with my colleagues, Senator McCaskill, Senator Bond, Congressman Carnahan and Congressman Aiken, we are mounting a massive bipartisan effort to save these programs and to ensure the job security of Boeing workers.I agree with Secretary Gates that there are many programs left over from the Cold War that need to be cancelled, like the F-22.They cost too much and they no longer have a legitimate defense mission. But the C-17 and the F-18 programs are among the most efficient and most reliable aircraft that we have. The C-17, which is the backbone of our military airlift capacity, is essential to the missions in Afghanistan and Iraq, and to our continuing efforts to respond to unconventional threats all over the world.I also support two options listed in a recent report on Strategic Airlift Modernization compiled by the Congressional Research Service which includes replacing all current C-5A models with new Boeing C-17s, or replacing up to 30 C-5s with 30 C-17s.And given the huge problems that Lockheed is having with the Joint Strike Fighter program, which is way over budget, and badly behind schedule…the F-18 is looking better every day.”# #
05.05.2009	For Immediate ReleaseTuesday, May 5, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029PERSONAL STATEMENT BYCONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURINOTE: The following, in it’s entirely, is afirst-person statement from Congressman Clayon a personal matter.Washington, DC - "This is a time of great sadness for my family and me. My wife and I have been discussing this situation for a number of months and this action should not have come as a surprise to anyone. Of course, my first concern is for our children, whom I love dearly, and for their peace & privacy. I will continue to be a devoted father to them, and I hope that the public will understand that this is a difficult, private family matter that will hopefully be resolved amicable and swiftly by all parties."# #
04.30.2009	For Immediate ReleaseThursday, April 30, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Applauds Expansion of Federal Hate Crimes LawAct Broadens Federal Protection for Crimes Based on Gender, Sexual Orientation or DisabilityWashington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, hailed today’s passage of expanded Federal Hate Crimes legislation in the U.S. House. H.R. 1913, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which Mr. Clay cosponsored, was approved by a vote of 249 – 175.“This bill is a powerful statement that hate has no place in America,” said the Congressman. “It brings existing Federal hate crimes law into the 21st century by broadening it to include crimes motivated by gender, sexual orientation and disability. Existing federal law only covers crimes committed on the basis of race, religion, or national origin.This bill also allows the Federal Government to provide assistance to State and local law enforcement officials to investigate and streamline prosecution of hate crimes. In my early public career as a state legislator, one of my proudest achievements was writing and passing a tough hate crimes bill in Missouri. Today, I am even more proud to see that protection affirmed at the Federal level for all Americans."The current bipartisan legislation is supported by a broad coalition, including more than 300 law enforcement, religious, women’s advocacy, civil rights and disability rights organizations.# #
04.29.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, April 29, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Budget Agreement Advances Jobs, Healthcare, Education, Energy IndependenceClay Says First Obama-era Budget Refocuses National Priorities on Working Families, Rebuilding CommunitiesWashington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri praised passage of the Fiscal Year 2010 House-Senate Budget Conference Agreement. The bill, which will fund federal operations in FY 2010, starting on October 1st, passed the U.S. House today by a vote of 233-193. “Today’s budget agreement refocuses our national priorities on creating jobs, investing in distressed communities, reforming our healthcare system and making energy independence a reality,” saidCongressman Clay. “This plan will make America stronger and give middle-class families more tools to achieve prosperity. And it also represents, for the first time in many years, an honest budget that includes the real costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and other essential federal functions. I’m also very pleased that President Obama and this Congress are restating our commitment to statutory pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules, an essential tool to restore real fiscal discipline and cut the budget deficit."The Democratic budget is designed to lower the deficit from $1.7 trillion in 2009 to $523 billion by 2014. The budget agreement includes tax cuts of more than $1.7 trillion over the next ten years for middle-income Americans, permanently extending the middle-income tax cuts adopted in 2001 and 2003, including the 10 percent bracket, the child tax credit, and marriage penalty relief. It also indexes the alternative minimum tax to keep it from burdening middle-income taxpayers, and extends estate tax exemptions at 2009 levels, while indexing them for future years.# #
04.28.2009	For Immediate ReleaseTuesday, April 28, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029PBS NewsHour Town Hall to Feature Congressman Clay onPresident Obama’s First 100 Days in Office Washington, DC -WHO:Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriFormer Senator Jack Danforth (R) MissouriMayor Patti York, City of St. Charles, MissouriCommunity Housing Advocate, Christopher KrehmeyerMs. Gwen Ifill, Senior Correspondent, The NewsHour with Jim LehrerWHAT: LIVE MEDIA EVENT:TUESDAY, APRIL 28. 20097PM – 8PM: KETC-TV, 3655 OLIVE, ST. LOUIS, MO 63108NATIONAL BROADCAST:WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 2009, 6PM CDT(PBS) THE NEWSHOUR WITH JIM LEHRERLOCAL BROADCAST, KETC-TV, CHANNEL 9FRIDAY, MAY 1, 2009, 7PM, CDTNEWSHOUR SPOTLIGHT CITY ST. LOUIS TOWN HALL, WITH GWEN IFILLSTORY:Congressman Clay will be a featured panelist at a PBS town hall meeting in St. Louis to mark President Barack Obama’s first 100 days in office. The special event, to be moderated by Gwen Ifill, Senior Correspondent for the NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, will be taped in front of a live studio audience at KETC-TV, Channel 9. Joining Congressman Clay on the panel with be former U.S. Senator Jack Danforth, St. Charles Mayor Patti York and housing advocate Christopher Krehmeyer.Highlights of the town hall meeting will air on the The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, on Wednesday, 4.29.09, at 6PM CDT, along with excerpts from President Obama’s visit to Missouri on Wednesday morning.The entire town hall meeting will air in St. Louis on KETC-TV, Channel 9, at 7PM on Friday, 5.1.09.# #
04.20.2009	For Immediate ReleaseThursday, April 20, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Congressional Healthcare Reform Listening Post Probes Five Key QuestionsClay Says Nation Must Transform Healthcare System from Sickness Model to a Prevention ModelWashington, DC - As Congress reconvenes this week, at the top of the legislative agenda will be ground-breaking legislation to reshape and reform the ailing American healthcare system. And three leading area Members of Congress will be armed with fresh information gained at a remarkable healthcare reform event held last Friday in St. Louis. Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Congressman Russ Carnahan (D) Missouri, and Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson (R) Missouri, hosted a bipartisan Congressional Healthcare Listening Post at Christian Hospital – BJC Healthcare. They were joined by an exceptional panel of top healthcare providers, insurers, prescription drug providers, labor leaders and patient advocates.“This is truly a bipartisan effort to advance healthcare reform,” said Congressman Clay. “There are five key questions that are at the heart of this critical issue that affects every American: What are the highest priorities that we must address? What steps must be taken to reduce current healthcare costs and cost growth? How should healthcare reform be financed? How can we use reform as an opportunity to improve quality of care? And what about the role of the public and private sectors? The answers to these five questions are going to drive the national conversation about: How do we cover the uninsured? How do we contain healthcare costs? How do we reduce healthcare disparities? And ultimately, how do we transform America’s healthcare system from a sickness model to a prevention model?”“I’m so glad this exceptional group could come together,” said Congresswoman Emerson. “This is a group that crosses political boundaries, and that’s extremely important because it will require solutions from Republicans and Democrats to attack the crisis in health care unfolding in our country. It will also require experts from the policy side of health care as well as practitioners, administrators, advocates, insurers and educators.”"The American health care system is broken; that we all know," said Congressman Carnahan. "Forty-six million Americans, one and a half million living right here in Missouri are uninsured. Most of these people work, and are left without preventative care options, costing taxpayers much more when they get sick and head to area emergency rooms. Reforming health care will strengthen our middle class, help businesses create jobs and be competitive, rebuild the economy and put our nation on a sound financial footing far into the future.”Joining Mr. Clay, Ms. Emerson and Mr. Carnahan were 75 area healthcare stakeholders who participated in the two-hour discussion with the outstanding panel. Panelists included: Dr. James Kimmey, President & CEO, Missouri Foundation for Health; Steve Lipstein, CEO, BJC Healthcare; Ilena Aslin, AARP; Robert Fruend, Jr., CEO, St. Louis Regional Health Commission; Dwayne Butler, CEO of People’s Health Centers; Dr. Steve Miller, Chief Medical Officer, Express Scripts, Inc; Trey Davis, Vice President of Governmental Affairs - Missouri Chamber of Commerce & Industry; Dennis Matheis, President, Anthem Blue Cross - Blue Shield; Dr. Nathaniel Murdock, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology - Washington University School of Medicine; Dr. Denise Hooks-Anderson, President, Mound City Medical Forum; Paula M. Gianino, President and CEO, Planned Parenthood-St. Louis Region, and Dr. Will Ross, MD, MPH, Associate Dean for Diversity, Associate Professor of Medicine - Washington University School of Medicine.# #
04.15.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, April 15, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Applauds President’s Cuban PolicySays Obama Initiatives Will Heal Families, Help Promote Human RightsWashington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, strongly praised President Barack Obama’s easing of restrictions for Cuban American families who wish to visit their relatives and send money home to help their loved ones. “President Obama’s decision to end restrictions on travel and remittances by Cuban Americans will help restore families who have been separated for far too long,” said the Congressman. “These new rules will also allow humanitarian aid and financial assistance to be given without the interference of politics.”The Congressman continued, “The Cuban people deserve real freedom, fair elections and the restoration of individual liberties. We can promote these vital objectives by supporting, instead of dividing families, and causing greater hardship. That’s why I support the President’s decision.”Cuban Americans will now be able to make unlimited transfers of money and visits to relatives in Cuba. About 1.5 million Americans have relatives in Cuba.Other steps taken by the President include expanding items allowed in gift parcels sent to Cuba. The Obama administration will also begin issuing licenses for American companies to provide cellular phone and television services to Cubans.# #
04.15.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, April 15, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay, Carnahan, Emerson to Convene Bipartisan Healthcare Reform Listening Postat Christian Hospital, Friday, April 17th, 10AM Top Healthcare Providers, Insurers, Patient Advocates to Address Key Issues to Reform Nation’s Healthcare System, Close Disparities, Cover the Uninsured}Washington, DC -WHO:Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriCongressman Russ Carnahan (D) MissouriCongresswoman Jo Ann Emerson (R) MissouriMr. Don Marsh, KWMU-FM (Moderator)WHAT: LIVE MEDIA EVENT THIS FRIDAY MORNING, APRIL 17, 2009WHERE: Christian Hospital – BJC Healthcare Detrick Building Atrium 11133 Dunn Road (I-270 & Hwy 367) St. Louis, MO 63136WHEN: 10:00 a.m.STORY:Three leading Members of Missouri’s U.S. House delegation will lead an outstanding panel of experts and healthcare stakeholders as they discuss key questions, ideas and challenges related to Healthcare reform. Panelists joining Congressman Clay, Congressman Carnahan and Congresswoman Emerson include:- Mr. Steve Lipstein, CEO, BJC Healthcare - Dr. James Kimmey, President, Missouri Foundation for Health- Ms. Ilena Aslin, AARP- Mr. Robert Fruend, Jr., CEO, St. Louis Regional Health Commission- Mr. Dwayne Butler, CEO of People’s Health Center (FQHC)- Dr. Steve Miller, Chief Medical Officer, Express Scripts, Inc.- Mr. Trey Davis, Vice President of Governmental Affairs - Missouri Chamber of Commerce & Industry- Mr. Dennis Matheis, President, Anthem Blue Cross - Blue Shield- Dr. Nathaniel Murdock, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology - Washington University School of Medicine- Dr. Denise Hooks-Anderson, President, Mound City Medical Forum- Ms. Paula M. Gianino, President and CEO, Planned Parenthood-St. Louis Region- Dr. Will Ross, MD, MPH, Associate Dean for Diversity, Associate Professor of Medicine - Washington University School of MedicineYour reporters and camera crews are invited to attend. Individual interviews with the Members of Congress and panelists will be available.# #
04.03.2009	For Immediate ReleaseFriday, April 3, 2009Contact: MEDIA CONTACT: STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Member-Sponsored Project Funding Requests for FY’2010Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MO-1Washington, DC -Project: Natural Bridge Avenue (MO Route 115) Connection Planning, Engineering & Environmental ProjectRecipient (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)City of St. Ann10405 St. Charles Rock Rd.St Ann, MO 63064This project will provide companion funding to complete the necessary engineering, planning and environmental work for a transportation project that will provide a five lane “connection” from the newly designated “Western Entrance” of Lambert St. Louis International Airport at the intersection of Cypress Rd. and US Interstate 70 to the airport proper as well as ancillary uses adjacent to the airport complex. This connection will mitigate congestion at the current exit for traffic coming from west on Interstate 70.The project will also serve as a catalyst for economic development opportunities within the area by directly linking the Cypress Rd.\US Interstate 70 Interchange to the airport complex.And this project will serve to compliment the new traffic pattern designed to better serve in-bound and out-bound road congestion for St. Louis International Airport. Freight traffic can be redirected off HWY 70 into a newly extended Natural Bridge allowing for better flow into the airport complex thereby lessening vehicle load from HWY 70.$500,000 is requested for this project.Project: Battlefield Asset Recovery Decontamination System - BARDSRecipient (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)STERIS Corporation5960 HeisleyMentor, OH 44060This project will be used to further develop and test required chemistries and a simple blending system. BARDS II will demonstrate how a field adjustable decontamination system can reduce the weight, shipping constraints, water usage and cost of the overall decontamination process while providing a more focused decontamination solution optimized for the military's task at hand.The life of military equipment already supported by taxpayers will be extended during field use when a chem/bio threat is present. This decon system can be adjusted based on specific local conditions. As a result, it saves taxpayer dollars.The research and development on this project will be conducted at STERIS' St. Louis facility.$5,300,000 is requested for this project.Project: Out of Autoclave Composite ProcessingRecipient (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)GKN Aerospace - St Louis14 JS McDonnell BlvdSt Louis, MO 63042This request is for the continued development of out of autoclave curing processes for composite aircraft structures. The taxpayer will benefit from this project by the reduced cost associated with curing of composite structures in large autoclaves. Using out of autoclave processes negates the need for these large curing vessels and allows for lower cost adaptable ovens to be used in their place.$2,000,000 is requested for this project.Project: Advanced Simulation Tools for Aircraft StructuresMade of Composite MaterialsRecipient (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)Engineering Software Research and Development111 West Port Plaza, Suite 825St Louis, MO 63146This initiative will develop and validate tools and guidelines for the simulation of the structural and strength responses of airframe components made of fiber-reinforced composites to reduce life cycle costs, reduce airframe development time, increase structural reliability, and reduce weight. The advanced simulation tools will be demonstrated in an actual production setting for the FA-18E/F trailing edge flap (TEF).Acquisition studies have determined that approximately 80% of a product’s life cycle cost are determined by decisions made early in the design phase. This is clearly evident in current programs such as the F-35 where the airframe development effort is the number one cause of cost and schedule problems. The Navy needs advanced computer-aided engineering tools and processes for reliable simulation of structural and mechanical systems incorporated in Naval Aviation assets. Significant cost savings and enhanced readiness will result when this capability exists and can be applied to high-cost and structurally critical components.$4,000,000 is requested for this project.Project: Wellston Industrial Park Preparation and InfrastructureRecipient (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)St. Louis County Economic Council41 South Central AvenueClayton, MO 63105Completion of the Wellston Industrial Park is the next step in a comprehensive revitalization effort underway in Wellston, Missouri, a low-income community located in North St. Louis County. The goal of this project is to encourage the expansion and relocation of businesses to an area where employment opportunities are needed.The Park combines an abandoned former foundry site and former residential area to create a 24-acre pad-ready site. Demolition and site clearing has already been completed, and the former foundry - a brownfield - has undergone remediation. The requested funds will support significant prior public and private investment that has allowed for utility upgrades, and public road reconstruction along with significant site remediation and clearing.Upon its completion, the Wellston Industrial Park will create up to 240 new jobs in and economically disadvantaged, older suburban community with access to two bus routes and two regional light rail stations. Returning this property to productive use will also expand the community's tax base and allow additional improvements in the existing, aged infrastructure. Upon its completion, the St. Louis County Economic Council intends for the Wellston Industrial Park to serve as a model for redevelopment in older, economically challenged inner ring suburbs. $825,000 is requested for this project.====Project: North St. Louis Community Food and Health CenterRecipient If funded by the Appropriations CommitteeI-70 Northwest Development Corporation4144 Lindell BoulevardSt. Louis, MO 63108The federal funds requested will help support the establishment of a much needed healthy food market in an economically distressed inner city community. The market will bring more than 50 new jobs to a neighborhood that has been historically under served because of a pattern of disinvestment in North St. Louis. The North St. Louis Community Food and Health Center will offer fresh, healthy food choices at affordable prices and effectively promote improved health in a community beset with high levels of chronic disease such as diabetes and obesity. The new building will also be an incentive for other private sector investments in the community. The federal funds requested will provide the public equity necessary to complete the project. The leverage of tax dollars will be over 12 to 1.$263,000 is requested for this project===Project: Restore Our Homes-Homeownership CenterRecipient: (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)National Urban League120 Wall Street – 3rd FloorNew York, NY 10005The current foreclosure crisis is projected to result in the greatest loss of wealth for African Americans since Reconstruction. According to the Center for Responsible Lending (CRL), close to 20 percent of African Americans may lose their homes by the time the current foreclosure crisis bottoms out. According to United for a Fair Economy – this loss of homeownership could translate into a total loss of wealth among African American and Hispanic households of between $164 and $200 billion.To reach these households in time to prevent foreclosures and to provide them viable home retention solutions, the National Urban League plans to launch a wide ranging communications and outreach campaign designed to heighten awareness and drive homeowners and homebuyers to targeted, intensive counseling offered at no cost by certified loss mitigation counselors at the Metropolitan St. Louis Urban League’s Restore Our Homes-Homeownership Center.This valuable program promises to help families protect their investments and their communities from neighborhood blight, possible crime and vandalism, the loss of neighbors and friends, and economic instability.$500,000 is requested for this project.Project: Harambee Institute Arts WorkshopsRecipient (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)Harambee Institute5233 RaymondSt. Louis, MO 63113Harambee Institute serves the children of Missouri’s 1st congressional district, an attend public schools that are currently unaccredited. Many students are unmotivated and falling behind in statewide achievement test. These children need to be engaged in more productive leisure activities. Harambee Institute’s arts workshops help to address this need by conducting educational programs that enhance instructional methodologies. Harambee aims to engage and motivate students by improving their literacy skills thru dance, music and cultural arts.$340,000 is requested for this project.Project: Ville Market PlaceRecipient (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)Ville Market Place5172 RaymondSt. Louis, MO 63113The Ville Market Place, which is the product of a community based effort to provide fresh, locally grown produce and promote healthy lifestyles in this inner city community. The Ville Market Place was developed by a collaborative process involved in local residents, the American Institute of Architects, the Midwest Development LLC along with other civil and business leaders as part of an effort to revitalize the Ville neighborhood.The Ville Market Place will be a destination place for vendors and consumers of fresh produce. The facility will also offer community relevant programs related to nutrition, food preparation, physical fitness and healthy lifestyles. A unique aspect of this project is the promotion of agriculture based entrepreneurship opportunities utilizing leading edge technologies such as hydroponics and state of the art greenhouse for growing non-edible crops in urban environments. $570,000 is request for this project.Project: Prostate Cancer Screening ProgramRecipient (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)Betty Jean Kerr Peoples Health Center5701 DelmarSt. Louis, MO 63112According to Missouri Department of Health, African American men in the city of St Louis have a 2.5 times greater risk of dying from prostate cancer than Caucasian men. The People Health Centers (PHC) program will help to overcome this disparity by reaching out and providing information, testing and health care service. This program will serve 1,549 men annually and provide them with PSA and DRE testing. The PHS staff will track abnormal test results and make appropriate referrals to the Siteman Cancer Center. This program is designed to serve as a catalyst that will help meet the health needs of underserved men in the St. Louis metropolitan area. The goal of this project is to reduce chronic disease, increase awareness and reduce overall risk of illness by helping men navigate the local health care delivery system and obtain necessary medical care.$154,900 is requested for this project.Project: Reinstallation of the American Art CollectionRecipient: (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)Saint Louis Art Museum FoundationOne Fine Arts DriveForest ParkSt. Louis, MO 63110This project is vital to preserving this extremely important collection, which tells the story of American life, culture and history. With its ties to the Museum’s origins and history, as well as to the history of our state and our region, the American Collection is the core of the Saint Louis Art Museum. Its care and thoughtful presentation are the mission of the museum, and its obligation to the people of St. Louis. The Reinstallation of the American Collection will be a premier project, and a critical part of the future of the Art Museum. As part of the re-envisioning of the Museum that will occur with the building of a new expansion for contemporary art, the American Collection will be re-installed in a dedicated area of the third floor of the original building. Individual paintings will be evaluated to see if cleaning or restorative work is necessary before they are rehung. In the third floor space, new gallery walls will be fabricated to create a smooth, flowing experience for the visitor, and any mounts or sculpture pedestals will created as well. Finally, the curator will write new interpretive materials and text panels to accompany the artworks and provide visitors with a sense of context. In addition, the Museum also holds many sketches and drawings by Bingham, as well as prints of his works made during his lifetime. The reinstallation of this unique collection will greatly enhance the experience of museum patrons and students, while also preserving this remarkable collection of American works.$500,000 is requested for this project.Project: St. Louis MO Combined Sewer OverflowRecipient: (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)Army Corps of Engineers-St Louis1222 Spruce StreetSt. Louis, MO 63102An estimated 226 million gallons of untreated sewage from combined sewer overflows are being discharged into receiving waters in the St. Louis area on an annual basis. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency issued a Notice of Violation to the St. Louis Metropolitan Sewer District in May 2007 which requires posting of signs by all combined sewer overflow surface discharge locations to warn the public of the potential health hazards. This project will address this problem and ensure that St. Louis area residents are protected in the future by eliminating or controlling combined sewer overflows within the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County.The design of the local sewer system was completed in FY 2004. Two sewer contracts have been completed, Vandeventer to Grand in February 2005 and Southern Arsenal in September 2005. The Project Cooperation Agreement for the Old Mill Creek sewer rehabilitation work was completed in November 2005, plans and specifications were completed in FY 2006, and Phase I contract was awarded in February 2009. Administration policy precludes budgeting for this initiative; environmental infrastructure is not a budget priority. Current policy requires that funds must be appropriated for the full amount before construction can be initiated. The Water Resources and Development Act of 2007 authorized an increase in the Federal funding ceiling from $15,000,000 to $35,000,000 and expanded the geographic boundary from St. Louis City to St. Louis City and St. Louis County, Missouri. The request for $25,424,000 could be used to complete the Old Mill Creek rehabilitation ($7,000,000) and complete sewer rehabilitation storm water retention ($18,424,000).Project: Coldwater Creek, MORecipient: (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)Army Corps of Engineers – St. Louis1222 Spruce StreetSt. Louis, MO 63102The Coldwater Creek basin lies in the northern part of St. Louis County Missouri. The 47 square mile urban watershed empties into the Missouri River at mile 6.9. Approximately 158,000 residents occupy the watershed and the area represents one of the largest employment centers in the St. Louis metropolitan area. The Reach 2 project, which is downstream from Lambert St. Louis Airport, is estimated to cost $34,802,000 and includes 7.8 miles of channel widening, five tunnels through a downstream railroad embankment, two small levees, a flood forecasting and warning system, environmental measures, recreation features along the channel widening project and restoration of the lower reaches where the creek enters the Missouri River. The average annual benefits amount to $2,871,000. The underlying economic and social benefits of the recommended project remain valid today. $200,000 is requested for this project.Project: River Des Peres, MORecipient: (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)Army Corps of Engineers-St Louis1222 Spruce StreetSt. Louis, MO 63102The project is located along the River des Peres within the St. Louis Metropolitan area. This flood damage reduction project will reduce damages affecting 550 structures within both industrial and residential areas. River des Peres includes two branches, University City and Deer Creek. The University City portion consists of channel enlargement and stabilization along 2.5 miles of the University City Branch of upper River des Peres and a 1.85 mile recreation trail within the improved channel right-of-way. The Deer Creek portion consists of 2.5 miles of channel widening and stabilization improvements along with a recreational trail through Brentwood, Maplewood, Rock Hill, and Webster Groves.$200,000 is requested for this project.Project: Nanostructured Energy Storage/Delivery System Utilizing Carbon Nanotubes and Conductive PolymersRecipient: (If funded by the Appropriations Committee)Crosslink, Inc.950 Bolger CourtSt. Louis, MO 63026New technologies for fast and efficient energy storage and delivery are required for photovoltaic systems, wind power and hybrid electric vehicles as the United States moves away from reliance on fossil fuels. Energy storage technologies allow for decoupling the generation and delivery of energy from somewhat unpredictable renewable resources, making the generated energy more useful and more valuable. For example, solar power has always faced the question of how to store the energy captured from the sun so that demand for electricity can be met at night or on a cloudy day. Currently available supercapacitor storage systems are based on highly inefficient technology developed in the 1950’s and will not meet the energy and power density demands of the future. What is urgently needed is a light weight, inexpensive electrical energy storage system that is safe, mechanically sound and provides stable and reliable energy storage that can be delivered rapidly on demand. The combination of new conductive polymer and carbon based nanostructures being developed at Crosslink provide a new platform for supercapacitor systems that will allow for efficient storage of solar, wind and mechanical energy.$15,000,000 is requested for this project.# #
03.30.2009	For Immediate ReleaseMonday, March 30, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 $2.4 Million in Obama Stimulus Funds to Help Community Healthcare CentersClay Says Funding Essential to Close Healthcare DisparitiesWashington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri announced today that four community healthcare facilities in St. Louis will share $2.4 million in much needed funding from the Obama stimulus plan.“I am pleased to announce that $6.8 million in federal stimulus funds will be flowing to community-based primary care centers across Missouri,” said Mr. Clay. “$2.4 million will be spent in St. Louis City & County at four facilities: People’s Community Health Centers; Family Care Health Centers; Myrtle Hilliard Davis Comprehensive Health Centers and Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Centers. One of the reasons that I supported the President’s stimulus plan so strongly is that I knew that in addition to creating jobs, his plan invests in the health of at-risk patients. In our community, far too many of my constituents suffer from healthcare disparities that subject them to higher rates of heart disease, cancer, diabetes, kidney disease, HIV/AIDS, and other chronic illnesses. As the ranks of the uninsured grow due to the economic emergency, community healthcare centers are essential to closing that gap. I am pleased to join the President in providing this extra help at a critical moment.”Targeted community healthcare funding from the American Recovery & Reinvestment Act in St. Louis and St. Louis County:Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Centers $772,465Myrtle Hilliard Davis Comprehensive Health Center $609,172People’s Community Health Centers $666,589Family Care Health Centers $355,188# #
03.26.2009	For Immediate ReleaseThursday, March 26, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Bipartisan Push to Save 5,000 Jobs at Chrysler Fenton PlantClay Cites Productivity, Quality of Local UAW MembersWashington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, joined by a bipartisan coalition of regional Members of Congress, is petitioning the Chief Advisor to President Obama’s Domestic Automobile Taskforce to save the Chrysler Fenton plant as part of the administration's soon to be announced auto industry restructuring recommendations. In a letter to Steven Rattner, Chief Advisor to the U.S. Treasury’s Auto Task Force…Mr. Clay, along with Congressman Russ Carnahan (D) Missouri; Congressman Todd Aiken (R) Missouri; Congressman Jerry Costello (D) Illinois; and Congressman John Shimkus (R) Illinois, wrote:“Chrysler has a long and proud history of producing automobiles, trucks and vans in Fenton, MO. The men and women at the Fenton facilities helped Chrysler survive its darkest hours. The workforce at this facility has been idled for the past five months. This is deeply troubling as they have received numerous awards for productivity, quality and safety, as well as operating one of North America’s premier minivan plants for the past two years. Additionally, the plant was retooled in 2007 to incorporate flexible manufacturing capabilities, giving the facility the ability to build many different automobiles. This plant can also produce automobiles for the European market. The body shop was also redesigned and nine hundred state-of-the-art robots were installed. With these upgrades, the facility has the most advanced production capability in the Chrysler system. It is estimated that this facility could resume production in sixty days.”General Motors and Chrysler are seeking additional federal funds and are working to meet viability requirements included in their previously approved bailout plans. The Obama administration is expected to announce its auto industry restructuring recommendations on Monday and the St. Louis regional congressional delegation is pushing hard to ensure the future of Chrysler-Fenton.# #
03.23.2009	For Immediate ReleaseMonday, March 23, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Probes Census Preparations to Reduce Undercount in 2010Partnerships & Targeted Media to Focus On African Americans, Hispanics, Asians and Other Hard to Count PopulationsWashington, DC - Chairman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, pressed the Acting Census Director and the media group in charge of national and local census advertising to detail how they plan to reduce the national Census undercount among minorities and other hard to count populations.Mr. Clay, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, the Census and National Archives, conducted an extensive hearing earlier today which included testimony from Acting Census Director Thomas L. Mesenbourg; Government Accounting Office Strategic Issues Director Robert Goldenkoff; New York City Census Coordinator Stacey Cumberbatch and Jeff Tarakajian, Executive Vice President of DRAFTFBC Media.“The Census partnership programs and targeted media are critical to reaching the audiences who are most likely to be missed. In 2000, the Census missed 3 million Americans. Many of them were African American or Hispanic, most were poor, and all of them deserved to be counted,” said Chairman Clay. “I expect the Census Bureau, the Partnership organizations and the advertising campaign to aggressively target these hard to count populations and to make serious progress in reducing the chronic undercount of minorities. The Census is really about three things: information, federal funding, and proper political representation. When we miss any American, we deprive his or her community of all three of those precious resources. Every American counts, and every American deserves to be counted.”In his testimony to Mr. Clay’s subcommittee, GAO Strategic Issues Director Robert Goldenkoff reported that “The Bureau has made notable progress in rolling out key components of its communications campaign; if implemented as planned, the campaign will help the Bureau to address the undercount. For example, to help promote the Census, especially to hard to count groups, the Bureau plans to partner with state, local and tribal governments; religious, community and social service organizations; and private businesses to secure a more complete count. Thus far, the Bureau has secured partnerships with more than 10,000 organizations for 2010.”Chairman Clay’s questioning of Acting Census Director Mesenbourg and Jeff Tarakajian, Executive Vice President of DRAFTFBC Media, revealed that with the addition of $1 billion from the Obama stimulus plan, the total communications budget for Census 2010 is now $312 million. That figure is $50 million more than in 2000.Within that projected budget, $258 million will be spent on paid media, both at the national and local levels. In terms of actual media buys, the Bureau plans to spend $63 million on national media, which is primarily targeted at Americans whose first language is English. $83 million will be targeted at the local level via print, broadcast, transit, web and other forms of advertising to reach hard to count populations. Those local media buys will include messages in 19 languages.Acting Census Director Mesenbourg also reported to Chairman Clay that the Bureau has learned valuable lessons from 2000 which will greatly improve targeting for 2010. For instance, the evidence proves that the strongest indicator of whether an individual will complete and return a Census form is the composition of that household. Traditional households, headed by both a man and a woman, are the most likely to respond. While single parent households, especially those headed by women, are the least likely to respond. Census 2010 targeting efforts will be adapted to reach these harder to count Americans. Acting Director Mesenbourg also told Chairman Clay that the bureau was making a special effort to update its mailing address canvass to reflect homes lost to foreclosure.# #
03.19.2009	For Immediate ReleaseThursday, March 19, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay’s Asks AIG Chairman if Taxpayers Are Investing in a SinkholeSt. Louis Blogger Tells AIG Exec “You Have Really Missed the Boat”Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay took AIG Chairman and CEO Edward Liddy to task for $165 million in retention bonuses paid to over 400 executives in the company’s troubled Financial Products Unit. In questioning before a House Financial Services subcommittee hearing today, Mr. Clay commented, “Mr. Liddy, I opposed the bailout then, I oppose it now, and I wonder if the taxpayers are investing in a sinkhole at AIG.”The Congressman completed his questioning of Mr. Liddy in interactive fashion by including a question submitted by a St. Louis Post-Dispatch Political Fix blogger who goes by the pen name of “Geno.” The Congressman had solicited questions from the public for use at the hearing. In his question for Mr. Liddy, Geno the blogger asked, “How can AIG defend bonuses given to people that have run the company into the ground? Every place I have worked, bonuses are given to people who make money for the company. As far as retaining good help, you have really missed the boat!”Mr. Liddy defended the use of retention bonuses as the best way for AIG to wind down their Financial Products Unit at the lowest cost to the taxpayer.Last fall, Congressman Clay was an outspoken opponent of the Wall Street bailout. Before questioning Mr. Liddy, Mr. Clay said, “I have rarely seen my constituents so utterly and totally disgusted as they are today. The taxpayers own this company. And one way or another, we are going to return that bonus money to the taxpayers….either voluntarily or by legislative action.”# #
03.12.2009	For Immediate ReleaseThursday, March 12, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Omnibus Spending Bill Includes Help for Local Projects“Clay Says Federal Funds Will Support Children, Seniors, Mass Transit”Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, is pleased to announce that the 2009 Omnibus spending bill signed yesterday by President Obama includes special funding for several excellent programs in St. Louis City & County.“As the President said, when done with honesty and transparency, earmarks give legislators the opportunity to direct federal money to worthy projects that benefit their districts,” said the Congressman. “I have always been proud to support responsible local agencies and organizations with their good works because they help make our community stronger.”Congressman Clay’s Member-Sponsored Projects for FY 2009St. Louis Community College Training & Education Programs $190,000City of St. Louis Tucker Blvd Bridge project$332,500Guardian Angels Settlement Assoc Construction of new Child Care Center$95,000Metro Springdale Metrolink Station$380,000 (St. Louis County) Metro St. Louis Metro Bus & Paratransit$3,800,000 Rolling Stock Project (In cooperation with Senator Bond)Southside Wellness Center Upgrades to equipment & facilities$190,000SSM Healthcare Facilities & Equipment for Surgical Technology $238,000 Regional Justice Information Center Face Examiner $550,000 # #
03.10.2009	For Immediate ReleaseTuesday, March 10, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay’s Outreach to MODOT Yields $19.4 Million inAdditional Federal Stimulus Dollars for St. Louis Area“Transportation Projects in Downtown St. Louis and St. Louis County to Benefit”Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay today announced that based on his personal outreach to the Missouri Department of Transportation, MODOT will now designate $19.4 million in additional federal stimulus funding for transportation projects in the St. Louis area.“I’m so pleased that MODOT has acted on my request to restore some fairness to the funding process and help create more jobs in St. Louis City & County,” said the Congressman. “These critical infrastructure improvements are long overdue, and taxpayers in the St. Louis area deserve their fair share of federal stimulus dollars. This is a big win for our entire region.”Additional transportation projects requested by Congressman Clay and approved today by MODOT for federal stimulus funding include:$17.0 million, City of St. Louis: Tucker Blvd. (New Structures, Pavement and Road Improvements between O’Fallon Street and Washington Avenue.)$1.0 million, St. Louis County: Route 67 Lindbergh Blvd(ADA mandated sidewalk improvements from I-270 to Old. St. Charles Rock Rd.)$1.0 million, St. Louis County: Route AC(ADA mandated sidewalk improvements from Rte 67 Lindbergh to I-270.)$400,000, City of St. Louis: Municipal Dock Improvements at Port of St. LouisThis new federal stimulus funding requested by Congressman Clay and approved by MODOT is in addition to $5 million announced previously for pavement improvements along Memorial Drive.# #
03.05.2009	For Immediate ReleaseThursday, March 5, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Making Home Affordable Program Will Offer Help to Up to 9 Million HomeownersClay Applauds Obama Plan to Stem Foreclosures & Stabilize Housing MarketWashington, DC -Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, praised the Obama Administration’s announcement of detailed guidelines for the “Making Home Affordable” program. The President’s new initiative will help bring relief to responsible homeowners struggling to make their mortgage payments, while preventing neighborhoods and communities from suffering the negative spillover effects of foreclosure such as lower housing prices, increased crime and higher taxes.“This plan will help keep more Americans in their homes. Some homeowners having difficulty will be able to modify their mortgages and make their monthly payments more affordable. Others who have little or no equity in their homes will have a chance to refinance at favorable rates,” said the Congressman. “We’re making a direct investment to help up to nine million families and I urge homeowners who are having difficulty to contact their lender or servicing agent as soon as possible.”SUMMARY OF PROGRAM GUIDELINES(As prepared by the U.S. Department of the Treasury)The Home Affordable Refinance program will be available to 4 to 5 million homeowners who have a solid payment history on an existing mortgage owned by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Normally, these borrowers would be unable to refinance because their homes have lost value, pushing their current loan-to-value ratios above 80%. Under the Home Affordable Refinance program, many of them will now be eligible to refinance their loan to take advantage of today’s lower mortgage rates or to refinance an adjustable-rate mortgage into a more stable mortgage, such as a 30-year fixed rate loan. The Home Affordable Refinance program ends in June 2010.The Home Affordable Modification program will help up to 3 to 4 million at-risk homeowners avoid foreclosure by reducing monthly mortgage payments. Working with the banking and credit union regulators, the FHA, the VA, the USDA and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, these program guidelines are expected to become standard industry practice in pursuing affordable and sustainable mortgage modifications. This program will work in tandem with an expanded and improved Hope for Homeowners program.With the information now available, servicers can begin immediately to modify eligible mortgages under the Modification program so that at-risk borrowers can better afford their payments.Eligibility and VerificationLoans originated on or before January 1, 2009.First-lien loans on owner-occupied properties with unpaid principal balance up to $729,750. Higher limits allowed for owner-occupied properties with 2-4 units.All borrowers must fully document income, including signed IRS 4506-T, two most recent pay stubs, and most recent tax return, and must sign an affidavit of financial hardship.Property owner occupancy status will be verified through borrower credit report and other documentation; no investor-owned, vacant, or condemned properties.Incentives to lenders and servicers to modify at risk borrowers who have not yet missed payments when the servicer determines that the borrower is at imminent risk of default. Modifications can start from now until December 31, 2012; loans can be modified only once under the program.Loan Modification Terms and ProceduresParticipating servicers are required to service all eligible loans under the rules of the program unless explicitly prohibited by contract; servicers are required to use reasonable efforts to obtain waivers of limits on participation.Participating loan servicers will be required to use a net present value (NPV) test on each loan that is at risk of imminent default or at least 60 days delinquent. The NPV test will compare the net present value of cash flows with modification and without modification. If the test is positive – meaning that the net present value of expected cash flow is greater in the modification scenario – the servicer must modify absent fraud or a contract prohibition.Parameters of the NPV test are spelled out in the guidelines, including acceptable discount rates, property valuation methodologies, home price appreciation assumptions, foreclosure costs and timelines, and borrower cure and redefault rate assumptions.Servicers will follow a specified sequence of steps in order to reduce the monthly payment to no more than 31% of gross monthly income (DTI).The modification sequence requires first reducing the interest rate (subject to a rate floor of 2%), then if necessary extending the term or amortization of the loan up to a maximum of 40 years, and then if necessary forbearing principal. Principal forgiveness or a Hope for Homeowners refinancing are acceptable alternatives.The monthly payment includes principal, interest, taxes, insurance, flood insurance, homeowner’s association and/or condominium fees. Monthly income includes wages, salary, overtime, fees, commissions, tips, social security, pensions, and all other income.Payments to Servicers, Lenders, and Responsible BorrowersThe program will share with the lender/investor the cost of reductions in monthly payments from 38% DTI to 31% DTI.Servicers that modify loans according to the guidelines will receive an up-front fee of $1,000 for each modification, plus “pay for success” fees on still-performing loans of $1,000 per year.Homeowners who make their payments on time are eligible for up to $1,000 of principal reduction payments each year for up to five years.The program will provide one-time bonus incentive payments of $1,500 to lender/investors and $500 to servicers for modifications made while a borrower is still current on mortgage payments.The program will include incentives for extinguishing second liens on loans modified under this program.No payments will be made under the program to the lender/investor, servicer, or borrower unless and until the servicer has first entered into the program agreements with Treasury’s financial agent.Similar incentives will be paid for Hope for Homeowner refinances.Transparency and AccountabilityMeasures to prevent and detect fraud, such as documentation and audit requirements, will be central to the program. Servicers will be required to collect, maintain and transmit records for verification and compliance review, including borrower eligibility, underwriting, incentive payments, property verification, and other documentation.Freddie Mac will audit compliance.For more information about the Making Home Affordable Program, we recommend that you visit two excellent websites which can answer most questions about eligibility. Please go to www.financialstability.gov or www.hud.gov }# #
03.03.2009	For Immediate Release Monday, March 9, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Hails Presidential Order to Expand Federal Support forMedical Stem Cell Research“Vital Research Could Help Close Healthcare Disparities Gap”Washington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay hailed President Barack Obama’s executive order lifting the previous administration’s ban on federal funding for research on new stem cell lines.“By lifting the ban on federal funding for new stem cell research, President Obama has given hope to millions,” said the Congressman. “Americans from all backgrounds, from all parts of the country, and from both parties believe this vital research should go forward. Almost every family has someone who suffers from a debilitating illness like diabetes, cancer, Parkinson’s Disease, Alzheimer's, heart disease or other chronic ailments. Expanding embryonic stem cell research is not only the right thing to do, it may help us close the healthcare disparities gap, which adversely effects African Americans, Latinos and other minorities.”Mr. Clay continued, “Today, President Obama also sent a strong message that science matters, and that honest research should not be based on politics, but on the search for knowledge that will help mankind. Scientists must be allowed to pursue the research that they believe has the most promise to do the most good.” President Obama’s executive order directs the National Institutes for Health to support and conduct responsible, scientifically worthy human stem cell research. It also directs NIH to develop guidelines, within 120 days, on proceeding with research on newly developed stem cell lines.Congressman Clay, whose district in St. Louis includes top research facilities at Washington University Medical Center and Saint Louis University Medical Center, has been an early and energetic advocate of expanding research on both embryonic stem cells and cord blood stem cells. “This research not only offers hope to millions of patients who are suffering from terrible illnesses,” said the Congressman. “It’s also vital to helping America maintain leadership in key scientific fields that leads to better healthcare jobs and future economic development in the life sciences. I am proud to support the President’s drive to open the doors of new hope and potential cures that will help generations of Americans.”# #
02.25.2009	For Immediate Release{Tuesday, February 25, 2009}MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY (D) MISSOURIIN REACTION TO PRESIDENT OBAMA'S ADDRESS TO CONGRESSWashington, DC – "President Obama gave the nation a clear and energetic vision of how his bold agenda will help our economy recover and how we will restore the American dream for working families. He believes, as do I, in the fundamental strengths of this country and he trusts the American people enough to tell them the truth. As he outlined, now is the time to act boldly and wisely to rebuild our economy, restore fiscal sanity, stem the tide of foreclosures and stimulate millions of new jobs by investing in infrastructure, education, healthcare technology and renewable energy.The President committed to being honest about the difficulties ahead and he challenged Congress and the American people to pull together, confront boldly the problems we face and take responsibility for our future once more. I am proud to join him in that mission.That's why the President has committed to honest budgeting that shows the true costs of our programs and policies and does not rely on gimmicks to hide or mask deficits; bringing responsibility back to budgeting by paying for new programs as we go (PAYGO); conducting a line by line review to eliminate wasteful and ineffective programs; and restoring a sense of fairness and balance to our tax code by finally ending the tax breaks for corporations that ship our jobs overseas. This is not a time for fear or doubt, this is a time for faith and action. No challenge is too big for Americans to overcome and we will emerge from this crisis stronger, better and ready to compete in a global economy."# #
02.25.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, February 25, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Chairman Clay Congratulates Commerce Secretary-Designate, Governor Gary LockeWashington, DC - Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, the Census and National Archives, applauded President Obama’s nomination of former Washington State Governor Gary Locke to become the Secretary of Commerce. “Governor Locke is a great choice to lead the Commerce Department,” said Chairman Clay. “I look forward to working with him on the Census and to helping him advance the President’s agenda for fair trade and job creation. His nomination is more evidence of President Obama’s commitment to diversity in his Cabinet. It also sends a strong message that America is open for business and we expect to lead a worldwide economic recovery. I congratulate Governor Locke and I look forward to his swift confirmation in the U.S. Senate.
02.13.2009	For Immediate ReleaseFriday, February, 13, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029House Passes President Obama’s Package to Restore EconomyClay Says American Recovery & Reinvestment Act Will Save & Create 3-4 Million Jobs, More than 69,000 in MissouriWashington, D.C. – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri applauded the final passage of H.R. 1, the American Recovery & Reinvestment Act, which was approved in the U.S. House today by a vote of 246 – 183. “President Obama called on the Congress to take swift and bold action to meet this economic emergency,” said the Congressman. “Today, I’m very proud that we have delivered the most significant jobs bill in American history. This legislation will help us create and protect 3 – 4 million American jobs. At least 69,000 of those jobs will be in Missouri. The bill also invests almost 1 billion dollars in infrastructure projects across our state, many of them critical to public safety and job creation.” Mr. Clay continued, “The stimulus package rebuilds crumbling roads & bridges, transforms healthcare information technology, repairs obsolete schools, advances renewable energy, buys up foreclosed properties and strengthens critical public transit systems. H.R. 1 will also help Missouri preserve unemployment benefits, Medicaid coverage and other vital public services at the state level, which are at risk." The legislation also includes unprecedented accountability and transparency measures to help ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and effectively—including a new recovery.gov website, which will allow taxpayers to track the investments and the progress of projects.H.R. 1 now moves back to the Senate. If approved, it is expected that President Obama will sign the legislation on Monday, President’s Day.# #
02.11.2009	For Immediate ReleaseThursday, February 11, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Congressman Clay to Host President's Day Blood Drive in FlorissantMonday, February 16 at JFK Community Center, 10AM - 3PMWashington, DC -Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri will join with the Mississippi Valley Regional Blood Center to host a community blood drive on President's Day (Monday, Feb. 16th) at the John F. Kennedy Community Center in Florissant (315 Howdershell Rd., 63031), from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.“By giving blood, volunteer donors provide hospitals with a critical resource which can come from no other source,” said Mr. Clay. “In an era of astounding advances in medical science, this simple act of generosity remains the foundation for every transfusion. I am inspired by the commitment blood donors have to helping others in our community.”Congressman Clay will deliver brief remarks and have a media availability at 10:30 a.m. He will be joined by Florissant Mayor Robert Lowery and other elected officials. For more information, or to schedule an appointment to donate, please call MVRBC at (800) 591-8049 or visit www.bloodcenter.org.Individuals must be at least 17 years of age, or 16 years with parental permission, weigh 110 pounds, and be in good health to donate blood. Photo identification or a blood donor card is required to donate.# #
02.04.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, February 4, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 Clay Backs Granting Delay in Digital TV Conversion,Praises President Obama’s Signing of Expanded SCHIP ProgramNote: The following is a first-person statementBy Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri Washington, DC - “I am very pleased that Congress has acted to give millions of American consumers four more months to prepare for the upcoming transition from analog to digital television broadcasting. According to Neilson, more than 6 million Americans, many of them seniors, minorities and lower income families are still not ready. And hundreds of thousands of households are still on waiting lists for discount coupons to help them purchase digital TV convertors. In Missouri, more than 40,000 households are still on the waiting list, with over 5,600 in my own district. We will continue to work to improve the information and assistance available to American consumers in advance of June 12, 2009.”“I also want to commend President Obama and the bipartisan Congressional leadership on the expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program. “In Missouri, SCHIP currently covers 81,000 children from low and moderate income working families. This reauthorization will extend that coverage and expand it to include 45,000 uninsured young Missourians who will now be eligible. With rising unemployment, SCHIP is more critical than ever.Today’s bill signing means that 11 million at-risk children whose parents go to work every day will have access to quality healthcare. And that expansion is paid for by making cigarettes more expensive so that fewer young people will start smoking. That’s good public policy on both ends, and it’s a down payment on the change that the President promised and House Democrats are dedicated to delivering.”# #
01.29.2009	For Immediate ReleaseThursday, January 29, 2009STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Stimulus Plan Will Create & Save 3 – 4 Million Jobs,Clay Praises $935 Million in Infrastructure Investments in MissouriBill Also Includes Critical Funding for Schools, Healthcare, & Housing StabilizationWashington, DC -Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri joined a strong majority in the U.S. House to approve H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which passed by a vote of 244 – 188. “This is the most serious economic emergency since the Great Depression and the American people expect us to act without delay,” said Mr. Clay. “Today, we have moved to create and protect 3 – 4 million American jobs. We have acted to rebuild crumbling roads & bridges, transform healthcare information technology, make obsolete schools safe, invest in renewable energy, buy up foreclosed properties and strengthen critical public transit systems. This bill also provides essential support for hard-pressed states to preserve unemployment benefits, Medicaid coverage, and other vital public services that are at risk.”The Congressman continued, “This is the first step in supporting President Obama’s agenda to restore economic security for millions of working families. Instead of bailing out Wall Street, we’re investing in jobs for Main Street. And as President Obama requested, 75% of this investment will create jobs within the next 18 months. I’m also very pleased that the stimulus bill contains aggressive for one of my top legislative priorities, a secure, national electronic healthcare records system, which will help cut the cost of healthcare. This legislation strikes a good balance between investments and tax breaks, with 95% of households slated to receive a tax cut.”American Recovery & Reinvestment Act of 2009 Infrastructure Investments for Missouri include:Highways & Bridges $688 millionPublic Transit $74 millionClean Water $160 millionGuideway Modernization $11 millionAdditional Investments- $1.2 billion in direct funding to the State of Missouri for stabilization of vital services like Public Safety, Medicaid and Unemployment benefits# #
01.26.2009	For Immediate ReleaseMonday, January 26, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Clay Presses House Leadership to Boost Support for Public Transit in Stimulus PackageInvesting in Public Transit Will Create Green Jobs, Jump-Start EconomyWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, joined by a number of his colleagues, is pressing the leadership of the U.S. House to include enhanced funding for public transit in President Obama's stimulus package.In a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Minority Leader John Boehner, Mr. Clay and his colleagues said, “States have been hit hard in this economic downturn and many are in desperate need of financial assistance to support state transportation infrastructure. There are more than $15.9 billion of "ready-to-go" transit projects that could be advanced in fewer than 90 days." "In the St. Louis area, Metro bus and light rail service is absolutely vital to thousands of commuters and low income workers who depend on mass transit," said the Congressman. "Our goal is to save existing transit jobs and to create as many new ones as possible because a strong public transit system makes new job creation possible. Congress has an obligation to do everything we can to ensure that this funding is available.” Funding public transit will further stimulate the economy by producing green jobs. According to projections by the U.S. Department of Transportation, if $47.8 billion were invested in public transportation immediately, more than 1.3 million green jobs could be supported in the next two years.# #
01.23.2009	For Immediate ReleaseFriday, January 23, 2009STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN WM. LACY CLAY SUPPORTINGPRESIDENT OBAMA'S EXECUTIVE ORDER TO CLOSE GUANTANAMO DETENTION FACILITY AND OUTLAW TORTURE.NOTE: The following, in its entirety,Is a first-person statement fromCongressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) MissouriWashington, DC - "The President has sent a clear signal that he intends to respect the Constitution and restore justice and fairness to how America conducts itself in the world. The detention facility at Guantanamo, and all of the abuses that occurred there, have not made America safer. In fact, it has strengthened our enemies by supplying them with a potent propaganda tool. Closing this facility and transferring the prisoners to other secure facilities is long overdue. I applaud the President for keeping his word. As he said in his Inaugural Address, choosing between our safety and upholding our basic ideals... is a false choice. It is the power of our ideals that gives us the strength to fight terrorism around the world without trampling on the Constitution."
01.14.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, January 14, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 SCHIP for Children Sails Through U.S. House H.R. 2 Will Extend Coverage to 11 Million Young AmericansClay Says Act Will Protect 81,000 Children in MissouriWashington, DC - “Young Americans are our most precious natural asset, and I’m proud that today the House has once again extended access to quality healthcare to 11 million at-risk children,” said Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, a strong advocate of H.R. 2, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 (SCHIP). This critical legislation passed the House today by an overwhelming bipartisan majority of 289 – 139. The State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) will significantly reduce the number of uninsured children, many of whom are African American, Latino or other racial or ethnic minorities. “In Missouri, SCHIP currently covers 81,000 children from low and moderate income working families,” said Mr. Clay. “This reauthorization will extend that coverage and expand it to include 45,000 uninsured young Missourians who will now be eligible. With rising unemployment, this children’s health bill is more critical than ever. In this recession, more and more American parents are losing employer-sponsored health care for their children and the need for SCHIP is growing every day.”This bipartisan bill reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for four years. It preserves coverage for all 7.1 million children currently covered by SCHIP and it extends health care coverage to 4.1 million additional low-income children, who are uninsured. The bill is fully paid for by raising the tobacco tax by 61 cents. Raising the tobacco tax also promotes children’s health by discouraging children from smoking. According to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, a 61-cent increase in the tobacco tax means that 1,873,000 fewer children will take up smoking.This legislation is a clear indication that change has already come to Washington. This Congress will work night and day with President-elect Obama to make health care more affordable and move America in a bold New Direction.# #
01.14.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, January 14, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 SCHIP for Children Sails Through U.S. House H.R. 2 Will Extend Coverage to 11 Million Young AmericansClay Says Act Will Protect 81,000 Children in MissouriWashington, DC - “Young Americans are our most precious natural asset, and I’m proud that today the House has once again extended access to quality healthcare to 11 million at-risk children,” said Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri, a strong advocate of H.R. 2, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 (SCHIP). This critical legislation passed the House today by an overwhelming bipartisan majority of 289 – 139. The State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) will significantly reduce the number of uninsured children, many of whom are African American, Latino or other racial or ethnic minorities. “In Missouri, SCHIP currently covers 81,000 children from low and moderate income working families,” said Mr. Clay. “This reauthorization will extend that coverage and expand it to include 45,000 uninsured young Missourians who will now be eligible. With rising unemployment, this children’s health bill is more critical than ever. In this recession, more and more American parents are losing employer-sponsored health care for their children and the need for SCHIP is growing every day.”This bipartisan bill reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for four years. It preserves coverage for all 7.1 million children currently covered by SCHIP and it extends health care coverage to 4.1 million additional low-income children, who are uninsured. The bill is fully paid for by raising the tobacco tax by 61 cents. Raising the tobacco tax also promotes children’s health by discouraging children from smoking. According to the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, a 61-cent increase in the tobacco tax means that 1,873,000 fewer children will take up smoking.This legislation is a clear indication that change has already come to Washington. This Congress will work night and day with President-elect Obama to make health care more affordable and move America in a bold New Direction.# #
01.07.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, January 7, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 House Passes Legislation to Restore Transparency toPresidential Records and Require Disclosure of MajorDonations to Presidential LibrariesClay Says HR 35 and HR 36 Will Restore Accountability and OpennessWashington, DC-Today, the U.S. House approved two bills originally co-sponsored by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) that restore open and timely access to Presidential Records and requires public disclosure of major donations to Presidential Libraries. H.R. 35, the Presidential Records Act Amendments of 2009, was approved by a vote of 359 – 58.In a statement on the House floor this morning, Congressman Clay, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, the Census and National Archives, said, “The American people value the importance of transparency and having an open government. Citizens have a right to know how and why important decisions are made at the highest level of our government. This straightforward and bipartisan legislation ensures this by requiring presidential records to be treated as the property of the American people.” H.R. 35 restores meaningful public access to former presidents’ official papers by overturning a 2001 Bush executive order that gave current and former presidents, as well as former vice presidents, broad authority to withhold presidential documents or delay their release indefinitely.The House also approved today by a vote of 388 -31, HR 36, the Presidential Library Donation Reform Act. Mr. Clay’s bill requires the disclosure of donors who contribute over $200 to presidential libraries during a president’s term and for a minimum of four years after the president’s term ends.In his floor statement in support of H.R. 36, Chairman Clay said, “Federal election law limits the amount a single donor can give to a political campaign and requires that donations and donor information be disclosed to the public. But similar requirements do not apply to presidential library fundraising campaigns and this creates the potential for large donors to exert, or appear to exert, improper influence over a sitting president.”Presidential library fundraising organizations would be required to disclose the amount and date of each contribution, the name of the contributor, and if the contributor is an individual, the occupation of the contributor. The National Archives would be required to make the information available to the public through a free, searchable, and downloadable database on the Internet.Both H.R. 35 and H.R. 36 are key elements of Chairman Clay’s ongoing efforts to ensure open government and full transparency for the American people.The legislation now moves on to the U.S. Senate for consideration.-30-# #
01.07.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWednesday, January 7, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029 House Passes Legislation to Restore Transparency toPresidential Records and Require Disclosure of MajorDonations to Presidential LibrariesClay Says HR 35 and HR 36 Will Restore Accountability and OpennessWashington, DC-Today, the U.S. House approved two bills originally co-sponsored by Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) that restore open and timely access to Presidential Records and requires public disclosure of major donations to Presidential Libraries. H.R. 35, the Presidential Records Act Amendments of 2009, was approved by a vote of 359 – 58.In a statement on the House floor this morning, Congressman Clay, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, the Census and National Archives, said, “The American people value the importance of transparency and having an open government. Citizens have a right to know how and why important decisions are made at the highest level of our government. This straightforward and bipartisan legislation ensures this by requiring presidential records to be treated as the property of the American people.” H.R. 35 restores meaningful public access to former presidents’ official papers by overturning a 2001 Bush executive order that gave current and former presidents, as well as former vice presidents, broad authority to withhold presidential documents or delay their release indefinitely.The House also approved today by a vote of 388 -31, HR 36, the Presidential Library Donation Reform Act. Mr. Clay’s bill requires the disclosure of donors who contribute over $200 to presidential libraries during a president’s term and for a minimum of four years after the president’s term ends.In his floor statement in support of H.R. 36, Chairman Clay said, “Federal election law limits the amount a single donor can give to a political campaign and requires that donations and donor information be disclosed to the public. But similar requirements do not apply to presidential library fundraising campaigns and this creates the potential for large donors to exert, or appear to exert, improper influence over a sitting president.”Presidential library fundraising organizations would be required to disclose the amount and date of each contribution, the name of the contributor, and if the contributor is an individual, the occupation of the contributor. The National Archives would be required to make the information available to the public through a free, searchable, and downloadable database on the Internet.Both H.R. 35 and H.R. 36 are key elements of Chairman Clay’s ongoing efforts to ensure open government and full transparency for the American people.The legislation now moves on to the U.S. Senate for consideration.-30-# #
01.06.2009	For Immediate ReleaseTuesday, January 6, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Congressman Clay Advises Inaugural Visitors to Come Early, Dress Warmly, and Bring Extra Patience Washington, DC - Congressman Clay Advises Inaugural Visitors to Come Early, Dress Warmly, and Bring Extra Patience"My best advise to St. Louisans who are planning to attend President-elect Obama's inauguration is to prepare in advance for a long, cold day; start early; and bring an extra measure of patience to the event. St. Louisans who are attending the event are invited to come by my newly relocated Capitol Hill office for some hospitality. We are located in Room 2418 of the Rayburn House Office Building. (located Southwest of the Capitol and bounded by Independence Avenue, South Capitol Street, First Street, and C Street, S.W.)The following information is provided for all visitors by the Joint Inaugural Committee. I hope you find it helpful."==============TIMINGSecurity checkpoints will open for ticketed guests at 8:00 AM, and the committee advises arriving no later than 9:00 AM to ensure that you are through the checkpoints by the time the program begins. Screening will end when the program begins at 11:30 AM and late arrivals will not be able to enter the grounds.GETTING TO THE SWEARING-IN Getting to the swearing-in ceremonies that morning will be very difficult because of the large crowds. In addition to the 240,000 ticketed guests, a million or more people are expected to view the inauguration from the National Mall between 4th Street and the Lincoln Memorial, along with hundreds of thousands of others who plan on watching the Inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue.The District of Columbia’s inaugural website will have the most up-to-date information on road closures and other travel alerts. We recommend that guests bookmark t he site, https://www.inauguration.dc.gov/index.asp, and check it frequently for changing information.A security perimeter will be established around the U.S. Capitol and the parade route on or before January 20, 2009. Subway stations, bus stops, and streets within that perimeter will be closed. Street closures throughout Washington, D.C., will make traveling by car or taxi very difficult. Bridges from Virginia crossing the Potomac River into Washington, D.C., as well as major roadways from Maryland into Washington, D.C., may be closed to all but bus traffic.Following are recommendations on how to get to the swearing-in ceremony: Within 2 Miles of the U.S. CapitolFor those people who will be staying within 2 Miles of the U.S. Capitol, walking to the swearing-in ceremony will be the most reliable method of reaching the ticketed seated and standing areas. Be sure to carefully plan your return trip as well – it won’t be possible to cross the Pennsylvania Avenue parade route, except at designated points and Metro will be extremely crowded.Beyond 2 Miles of the U.S. CapitolUse public transportation to get you as close as possible to the U.S. Capitol and walk from there.D.C.’s subway system will be running “rush-hour” service all day, but is expecting “crush-level” crowds. Be prepared to wait for space on a train for long periods of time, during which you will have to stand in close proximity to several thousand people. Many Metro escalators will be closed due to crowding and individuals will need to climb Metro stairs or wait to utilize the small number of elevators at Metro stations.The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) plans to run Metrobuses on Inauguration Day. Check its website, www.wmata.com, for information regarding routes and schedules. As with any other travel planning for January 20, please allow extra time and prepare a back-up plan.AMTRAK www.amtrak.com, and regional commuter trains, Virginia Railway Express (VRE) www.vre.org and MARC (Maryland) Commuter Train www.mtamaryland.com/services/marc/ will be operating reserved trains on special schedules and are expected to sell out well in advance of January 20. Please visit their websites for more information.ACCESSIBILITY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES There will be no vehicular access or parking in the areas around the Capitol on January 20, 2009. This includes vehicles with special disability license plates or tags. While there will be locations outside the perimeter of the Capitol that will be designated as drop-off points for persons with disabilities, traffic conditions and restrictions may make reaching these drop-off locations extremely difficult.There will be designated areas for people with disabilities in each of the ticketed seating areas on the Capitol grounds, however these areas are limited in size and available on a first-come first-served basis. Persons in wheelchairs or utilizing walkers should be aware that they will need to move across bumpy surfaces, grassy areas, and possible icy areas (depending on the weather).OTHER IMPORTANT CONSIDERATIONSThe weather in Washington on January 20th is usually quite cold and often rainy or snowy. Please think carefully about whether you can stand outside in cold weather in a large crowd for up to six hours, and whether you are ready for long delays getting home afterwards.Regardless of the weather conditions, umbrellas will not be permitted in the ticketed areas. Other prohibited items include, but are not limited to: Firearms and ammunition (either real or simulated), Explosives of any kind (including fireworks), Knives, blades, or sharp objects (of any length), Mace and/or pepper spray, Sticks or poles, Pockets or hand tools, such as “Leatherman”, Packages, Backpacks, Large bags, Duffel bags, Suitcases, Thermoses, Coolers,Strollers, Laser pointers, Signs, Posters, Animals (other than service animals), Alcoholic beverages, Other items that may pose a threat to the security of the event as determined by and at the discretion of the security screenersBring with you any medications that you need because there will be very long delays in getting to and from events.Be aware that it may be difficult to talk or send pictures from your cell phone, according to wireless companies. Please use text messaging to send critical messages.The JCCIC will provide regular updates of this information to the media and via its website www.inaugural.senate.gov.# #
01.06.2009	For Immediate ReleaseTuesday, January 6, 2009MEDIA CONTACT:STEVEN ENGELHARDT (314) 504-4029Congressman Clay Advises Inaugural Visitors to Come Early, Dress Warmly, and Bring Extra Patience Washington, DC - Congressman Clay Advises Inaugural Visitors to Come Early, Dress Warmly, and Bring Extra Patience"My best advise to St. Louisans who are planning to attend President-elect Obama's inauguration is to prepare in advance for a long, cold day; start early; and bring an extra measure of patience to the event. St. Louisans who are attending the event are invited to come by my newly relocated Capitol Hill office for some hospitality. We are located in Room 2418 of the Rayburn House Office Building. (located Southwest of the Capitol and bounded by Independence Avenue, South Capitol Street, First Street, and C Street, S.W.)The following information is provided for all visitors by the Joint Inaugural Committee. I hope you find it helpful."==============TIMINGSecurity checkpoints will open for ticketed guests at 8:00 AM, and the committee advises arriving no later than 9:00 AM to ensure that you are through the checkpoints by the time the program begins. Screening will end when the program begins at 11:30 AM and late arrivals will not be able to enter the grounds.GETTING TO THE SWEARING-IN Getting to the swearing-in ceremonies that morning will be very difficult because of the large crowds. In addition to the 240,000 ticketed guests, a million or more people are expected to view the inauguration from the National Mall between 4th Street and the Lincoln Memorial, along with hundreds of thousands of others who plan on watching the Inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue.The District of Columbia’s inaugural website will have the most up-to-date information on road closures and other travel alerts. We recommend that guests bookmark t he site, https://www.inauguration.dc.gov/index.asp, and check it frequently for changing information.A security perimeter will be established around the U.S. Capitol and the parade route on or before January 20, 2009. Subway stations, bus stops, and streets within that perimeter will be closed. Street closures throughout Washington, D.C., will make traveling by car or taxi very difficult. Bridges from Virginia crossing the Potomac River into Washington, D.C., as well as major roadways from Maryland into Washington, D.C., may be closed to all but bus traffic.Following are recommendations on how to get to the swearing-in ceremony: Within 2 Miles of the U.S. CapitolFor those people who will be staying within 2 Miles of the U.S. Capitol, walking to the swearing-in ceremony will be the most reliable method of reaching the ticketed seated and standing areas. Be sure to carefully plan your return trip as well – it won’t be possible to cross the Pennsylvania Avenue parade route, except at designated points and Metro will be extremely crowded.Beyond 2 Miles of the U.S. CapitolUse public transportation to get you as close as possible to the U.S. Capitol and walk from there.D.C.’s subway system will be running “rush-hour” service all day, but is expecting “crush-level” crowds. Be prepared to wait for space on a train for long periods of time, during which you will have to stand in close proximity to several thousand people. Many Metro escalators will be closed due to crowding and individuals will need to climb Metro stairs or wait to utilize the small number of elevators at Metro stations.The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) plans to run Metrobuses on Inauguration Day. Check its website, www.wmata.com, for information regarding routes and schedules. As with any other travel planning for January 20, please allow extra time and prepare a back-up plan.AMTRAK www.amtrak.com, and regional commuter trains, Virginia Railway Express (VRE) www.vre.org and MARC (Maryland) Commuter Train www.mtamaryland.com/services/marc/ will be operating reserved trains on special schedules and are expected to sell out well in advance of January 20. Please visit their websites for more information.ACCESSIBILITY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES There will be no vehicular access or parking in the areas around the Capitol on January 20, 2009. This includes vehicles with special disability license plates or tags. While there will be locations outside the perimeter of the Capitol that will be designated as drop-off points for persons with disabilities, traffic conditions and restrictions may make reaching these drop-off locations extremely difficult.There will be designated areas for people with disabilities in each of the ticketed seating areas on the Capitol grounds, however these areas are limited in size and available on a first-come first-served basis. Persons in wheelchairs or utilizing walkers should be aware that they will need to move across bumpy surfaces, grassy areas, and possible icy areas (depending on the weather).OTHER IMPORTANT CONSIDERATIONSThe weather in Washington on January 20th is usually quite cold and often rainy or snowy. Please think carefully about whether you can stand outside in cold weather in a large crowd for up to six hours, and whether you are ready for long delays getting home afterwards.Regardless of the weather conditions, umbrellas will not be permitted in the ticketed areas. Other prohibited items include, but are not limited to: Firearms and ammunition (either real or simulated), Explosives of any kind (including fireworks), Knives, blades, or sharp objects (of any length), Mace and/or pepper spray, Sticks or poles, Pockets or hand tools, such as “Leatherman”, Packages, Backpacks, Large bags, Duffel bags, Suitcases, Thermoses, Coolers,Strollers, Laser pointers, Signs, Posters, Animals (other than service animals), Alcoholic beverages, Other items that may pose a threat to the security of the event as determined by and at the discretion of the security screenersBring with you any medications that you need because there will be very long delays in getting to and from events.Be aware that it may be difficult to talk or send pictures from your cell phone, according to wireless companies. Please use text messaging to send critical messages.The JCCIC will provide regular updates of this information to the media and via its website www.inaugural.senate.gov.# #
