02.06.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to see that Amazon has announced Starbucks COO, Rosalind “Roz” Brewer, will be added to the company’s 10-member Board of Directors following Congressional pressure to diversify its leadership. Starbucks’ second-in-command and the former CEO of Sam’s Club, Brewer will become the only minority on Amazon’s Board. “I would like to congratulate Roz Brewer on her appointment to Amazon’s Board of Directors,” said Congressman Cleaver. “For far too long, the invaluable life experiences that minorities bring to the table have been limited by corporate America. The push to broaden the viewpoints of boardrooms across the Tech industry has been a slow-moving process, but make no mistake, we are seeing progress, and Roz Brewer is the latest example.” In May of last year, Congressman Cleaver and members of the Congressional Tech Accountability Caucus, sent a letter to Jeff Bezos expressing the caucus’ frustration with the company’s refusal to implement a “Rooney Rule,” which would require the company to consider at least one woman or minority when selecting candidates for its Board of Directors. Shortly after the letter was sent, Amazon changed course and adopted a policy to include a diverse slate of candidates for all director openings. Congressman Cleaver also met with officials from Amazon in June of 2018 to discuss diversity and inclusion efforts at the company. In July of 2018, along with Congresswomen Robin Kelly (D-IL), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), and Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NC), Congressman Cleaver sent a follow-up letter to Amazon asking if they would commit to having a person of color on their board by 2019. “I am pleased to see Amazon is heeding the calls by Congress to supplement their Board with individuals who bring a unique perspective to the rapidly-growing company. Diversity in leadership has been one of the key challenges facing the tech industry and corporate America as a whole, and the hiring of Roz Brewer by Amazon is a critical step in addressing this issue,” Congressman Cleaver said. “Although this is a step in the right direction, I want to be clear: There is still much work to be done. Today, less than 17% of board seats at Fortune 500 companies are held by minorities. In the tech industry, the problem is even worse. This is unacceptable in the United States in 2019. I hope that this appointment will lead to a domino-effect where more companies choose to follow Amazon’s lead and hire a wider array of talent moving forward,” Congressman Cleaver said. “If not, Congress will still be there to hold them accountable.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.31.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II was proud to cosponsor and support the passage of H.R. 790, the Federal Civilian Workforce Pay Raise Fairness Act of 2019, which the House of Representatives approved yesterday by a vote of 259-161. The legislation would provide federal employees with a 2.6 percent cost of living increase in line with the raise given to members of the military and comes following President Trump’s announced pay freeze for federal workers for 2019, which he can legally determine unless Congressional action is taken. Congressman Cleaver was one of twenty-four cosponsors of the bill. “Leadership means doing the right thing and giving already underpaid federal workers an itsy-bitsy 2.6 percent cost of living increase is simply the right thing to do,” said Congressman Cleaver. “These civil servants protect our nation from foreign adversaries, administer benefits to millions of America’s most vulnerable citizens, ensure our food and medicine are safe to consume, and perform innumerable other thankless jobs to guarantee the federal government functions efficiently and effectively. The least Congress can do is show them the respect they deserve by giving them the modest pay raise they have earned,” Congressman Cleaver said. This bill is supported by: the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU), the National Federation of Federal Employees (NFFE), the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers (IFPTE), National Active and Retired Federal Employees (NARFE), Senior Executives Association (SEA) and the Federal Managers Association. The legislation will now go to the United States Senate for consideration. “Following the 35-day partial government shutdown, which held 800,000 federal workers hostage, Congress needs to demonstrate its support for the civil servants who have dedicated their careers in service to the American public. It is my sincere hope that the Senate will quickly pass and the President will sign into law this common-sense legislation,” said Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov . A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.29.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II has been appointed by Speaker Nancy Pelosi to serve on the new Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress. The committee was established to investigate, study, make findings, hold public hearings, and develop recommendations on modernizing Congress, including: • rules to promote a more modern and efficient Congress; • procedures, including the schedule and calendar; • policies to develop the next generation of leaders; • staff recruitment, diversity, retention, and compensation and benefits; • administrative efficiencies, including purchasing, travel, outside services, and shared administrative staff; • technology and innovation; and • the work of the House Commission on Congressional Mailing Standards. “Although my plate was full, I was excited when Speaker Pelosi asked me to serve on this essential and long-awaited committee. At a time when civility and compromise are needed in Congress, now more than ever, this committee will be vital in reforming Congress and making it work for the American people,” said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Derek Kilmer of Washington will chair the Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress. In addition to Congressman Cleaver, other Democratic members on the committee include: • Congresswoman Suzan DelBene of Washington • Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren of California • Congressman Mark Pocan of Wisconsin • Congresswoman Mary Gay Scanlon of Pennsylvania “Our new Members are pioneers and innovators with proven track records of achievement in making our institution more transparent, unifying and responsive to the needs and aspirations of the American people. With Congressman Kilmer at the head of the table, this Select Committee will strengthen and reinvigorate our institution, advancing a House of Representatives that is diverse, dynamic, oriented toward the future and committed to delivering results For The People,” said Speaker Pelosi. Congressman Cleaver was also appointed Chairman of the newly-created House Subcommittee on National Security, International Development, and Monetary Policy—within the House Financial Services Committee. This subcommittee has broad jurisdiction over international and domestic financial policy including issues such as trade, sanctions, defense production, illicit finance, and regulation of the money supply. He will continue serving on the Financial Services Committee Subcommittee on Housing, Community Development, and Insurance. In addition, Congressman Cleaver will rejoin his colleagues on the Committee on Homeland Security. Previously, Congressman Cleaver served on the Homeland Security Committee from 2009-2011. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.25.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement today to end the partial government shutdown. “I am pleased that President Trump has agreed to reopen the government so that federal workers can get back to work and receive the paychecks and backpay they have rightfully earned. Over the past 35 days, I have advocated for this very move: reopen the government and allow Congress to conduct negotiations on border security through the regular process. But let’s be clear, this continuing resolution is for just three weeks. Although the President stated he was willing to shut the government down yet again if Congress does not bend to his will, I hope he has learned that it makes no sense to shut down the government. We have seen the emotional damage the shutdown has caused, not just for the 800,000 federal workers, but the more than 1,000,000 contract workers and their families as well. We’ve heard security experts relay the significant impact shutdowns have on national security. We’ve heard from economic experts convey the harmful effects this shutdown will have on the American economy. Governing by shutdown, as we’ve learned time and time again, isn’t only irresponsible, it’s untenable. We expect the continuing resolution to clear the House and be signed by the President today. After this bill is signed, I look forward to working with both sides to fund a bill for Homeland Security to ensure reasonable border security.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.24.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II today was appointed Chairman of the newly-created Subcommittee on National Security, International Development, and Monetary Policy—a subcommittee of the powerful Financial Services Committee—with a unanimous vote among his Democratic colleagues. The subcommittee has broad jurisdiction over international and domestic financial policy including, but not limited to, issues such as trade, sanctions, defense production, illicit finance, and regulation of the money supply. “I am honored that my colleagues have elected me to serve as Chairman of such an influential subcommittee,” said Congressman Cleaver. “As Chairman, I am eager to tackle the financial issues facing everyday Americans, and there is currently no issue plaguing our economy more than the ongoing government shutdown. It is past time we reopened the government so that federal workers can receive their paycheck and regain the economic stability they work so hard to maintain.” “Following the conclusion of this self-inflicted crisis, I look forward to addressing some of the most critical economic challenges facing the American economy. It is my intention to work on bipartisan solutions that defend the American public from hostile foreign actors, safeguard our financial system, reassure American stability in international markets, and put an end to the foolhardy trade war that has been so detrimental to our economy,” said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver will also serve on the Financial Services Committee Subcommittee on Housing, Community Development, and Insurance. In addition to his position on the Financial Services Committee, Congressman Cleaver will rejoin his colleagues on the Committee on Homeland Security. Previously, Congressman Cleaver served on the Homeland Security Committee from 2009-2011. “It is a privilege to rejoin my friends on the Homeland Security Committee,” said the Congressman. “Providing security to the American public is one of the most important duties of the federal government and something I take with the utmost seriousness. In that light, the first item on our agenda ought to be reopening the government and fully funding DHS, DOJ, the Coast Guard, TSA, and the other federal agencies created to defend the American people.” A high resolution photo can be found here.
01.18.2019	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congresswoman Sharice Davids, (D-KS) will hold a joint press conference Tuesday, January 22, 2019 at the KCATA Kansas City headquarters to recognize public and private entities that are willing to work with federal employees and federal contract workers impacted by the partial government shutdown. Congressman Cleaver’s and Congresswoman Davids’ offices have been contacting banks, credit unions, local utility companies, and municipal and county agencies to inquire about relief for those who have been furloughed or those not receiving their regular pay due to the shutdown. Joining Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Davids at the press conference will be various utility agencies and banking institutions, from Kansas and Missouri, who are providing assistance to workers by setting up repayment plans for certain utilities or providing low interest loans to federal employees impacted by the shutdown. “When Congresswoman Sharice Davids approached me on the House floor about the federal workers in her area, I knew we were both feeling the same concerns and we both wanted to do something to help them. I am delighted to be standing with her today to offer some sort of relief as we continue working to end the shutdown,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Kansas City area federal workers and contractors aren’t at fault for the shutdown mess and they shouldn’t be forced to deal with the consequences of Washington’s dysfunction. We need to get the government back up and running but as this situation goes on, I’m glad to be working with Congressman Cleaver to try to help people in our area who are furloughed or working without pay. We have asked local utility companies to consider payment plans and to not shut off services due to unpaid bills for local people being impacted by the shutdown,” said Congresswoman Davids. When: Tuesday, January 22, 2019 9:30 a.m. – 10 a.m. Who: Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO), Congresswoman Sharice Davids (D-KS), Representatives from various agencies Where: Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA) 1200 E. 18th Street, Kansas City, MO 64108 A high-resolution photo of Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II can be found here. A high- resolution photo of Congresswoman Sharice Davids can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
01.18.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II today called for banking institutions to work with federal employees affected by the ongoing partial government shutdown. In a letter to the four major banking associations, the congressman urged banks to contact customers and offer short-term loans and concessionary agreements to alleviate financial pressure and assist individuals weathering the current government shutdown. Congressman Cleaver is a high-ranking member of the House Financial Services Committee that handles legislation regarding the banking industry. The letter can be found here. “There are currently 800,000 Americans that, due to no fault of their own, are either furloughed or working without pay,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Many of these workers live paycheck to paycheck and are facing extraordinary financial hardship as they struggle to make payments on mortgages, student loans, car loans, medical care, and other various financial obligations. I’d like to see these banks reciprocate the same loyalty these customers have shown them by reaching out directly to federal workers and collaborating with them during these trying times.” Specifically, Congressman Cleaver asked banks to contact customers affected by the shutdown and offer concessionary agreements for short-term modifications to mortgages, student loans, and retail credit. Furthermore, the congressman called for the institutions to ensure that federal workers have access to no-interest short term credit lines with generous repayment terms, a practice that would be consistent with the guidance offered by federal financial regulators in a notice issued on January 11, 2019 and has already been implemented by a select number of financial institutions. “By giving no-interest loans to federal workers, these customers will be able to pay their bills and keep food on the table while the President and Congressional Republicans come to their senses,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “These dedicated employees should not be penalized for the President’s refusal to sign the appropriations deal that Congress had agreed upon in December.” The current government shutdown—the longest shutdown in American history—began on December 22, 2018, while Republicans still maintained control of the House, Senate, and White House. Under Democratic control of the House Chamber, Congressman Cleaver has voted nine times in support of legislation that would reopen the government. He has continually expressed concerns about the detrimental effects the shutdown has had on federal workers and the American economy. “Workers are being evicted from their homes, losing SNAP benefits, and rationing their medical care. I recently spoke to a woman who was unable to pay for her child’s medicine due to the shutdown. No federal worker—an individual who has chosen to serve their country—should have to choose between putting food on the table, a roof over their head, or medicine to keep their child healthy,” said Congressman Cleaver. “While Congress continues efforts to convince the White House to reopen the government and mitigate the harm done by this shutdown, I want to implore banks to work with these people and make arrangements on a short-term basis.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
01.16.2019	(Kansas City, MO) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following resources for constituents in the Fifth District of Missouri who might be affected by the previous storm or the upcoming winter storm and cold snap projected by the National Weather Service. “I am deeply concerned about the welfare of those who may be still without power, while impending below-zero temperatures rapidly approach. I strongly urge the people of the Fifth District to stay prepared and have a plan while this storm passes through our city,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emergency Numbers: KCP&L: Report an outage: 1-888-LIGHTKC (888-544-4852) Salvation Army Kansas and Western Missouri Division - (816) 756-1455 United Way: Dial 211 or 1-800-427-4626 MODOT Road Conditions: 1-888-ASK MODOT (1-888- 275-6636) Warming Centers: The following is a list of warming centers in the Fifth District. (You can find a complete list of all warming centers in the state of Missouri by calling United Way at 211 or by visiting this website; https://www.stlouisco.com/Portals/8/docs/health/media%20center/Local%20Warming%20Sites.pdf) Blue Springs, MO 1. YMCA Blue Springs 1300 SE Adams Dairy Pkwy, Blue Springs MO (816)-224-9622 (M-Th 5am-9pm; F 5am-8pm; Sa 7am-6pm; Sun 8am-5pm) 2. Mid-Continent Public Library - Blue Springs South Branch 2220 S 7 Hwy Blue Springs, MO (816)-229-3571 (M-F 9am-9pm, Sa 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) 3. Mid-Continent Public Library - Blue Springs North Branch 850 NW Hunter Dr Blue Springs MO (816)-224-8772 (M-F 9am-9pm, Sa 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) Excelsior Springs, MO 4. Mid-Continent Public Library - Excelsior Springs Branch 1460 Kearney Rd. Excelsior Springs, MO (816)-630-6721 (M-Th 9am-9pm, Fri 9am-6pm, Sat 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) Grain Valley, MO 5. Mid-Continent Public Library - Grain Valley Branch 101 SW Eagles Pkwy. Grain Valley, MO (816)-228-4020 (M-Th 9am-8pm, Fri 9am-6pm, Sat 10am-6pm) Grandview, MO 6. Mid-Continent Public Library - Grandview Branch 12930 Booth Ln. Grandview, MO (816)-763-0550 (M-Th 9am-9pm, Fri 9am-6pm, Sat 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) Higginsville, MO 7. Higginsville Senior Center 101 West 21st St. Higginsville, MO (660)-584-7040 (Mon-Fri - 8:00am to 3:00) Independence, MO 8. City of Independence - Sermon Senior Center 201 N. Dodgion Avenue, Independence, MO (816)-325-7370 (M-F 8am-5pm) 9. Mid-Continent Public Library - North Independence Branch 317 W 24 Hwy Independence, MO (816)-252-0950 (M-Th 9am-9pm, Fri 9am-6pm, Sat 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) 10. Kansas City, MO Public Library - Trails West Branch 11401 E 23rd St. Independence, MO (816)-701-3483 (M-Th 9am-8pm, F 9am-5pm, Sa 10am-5pm & Sun. 1pm-5pm) 11. Kansas City, MO Public Library - Sugar Creek Branch 102 S Sterling, Independence, MO (816)-701-3489 (M-Th 12pm-7pm; F & Sat 1pm-5pm; Closed on Sunday) 12. Mid-Continent Public Library - Midwest Genealogy Center 3440 S. Lee's Summit Rd. Independence, MO (816)-252-7228 (M-Sat 10am-8pm, Sun 1pm-8pm) 13. Mid-Continent Public Library - South Independence Branch 13700 E 35th St. Independence, MO 816-461-2050 (M-Th 9am-9pm, Fri 9am-6pm, Sa 10am-6pm and Sun 1pm-5pm) Sugar Creek, MO 14. City of Sugar Creek - Mike Onka Memorial Building 11520 Putnam, Sugar Creek, MO (816)-252-4400 (M-F 9am-5pm) 15. City of Sugar Creek - Police and Fire Departments 1001 Heroes Way, Sugar Creek, MO (816)-252-5560 (M-F 9am-5pm) Lone Jack, MO 16. Mid-Continent Public Library - Lone Jack Branch 211 N. Bynum Rd Lone Jack, MO (816)-697-2528 (M-Th 9am-8pm, F 9am-6pm, Sat 10am-6pm) Oak Grove, MO 17. Mid-Continent Public Library - Oak Grove Branch 2320 S Broadway St. Oak Grove, MO (816)-690-3213 (M-Th 9am-8pm, Sat 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) Kansas City, MO 18. Salvation Army - Westport - Emergency Assistance 500 W 39th St. Kansas City, MO (816)-753-6040 (M-Th 8am-4pm; F 8am-4pm (not open to the public F, calls only) 19. Kansas City, MO Public Library - Westport Branch 118 Westport Rd. Kansas City, MO (816)-701-3488 (M-T 10am-6pm, W-Th 10am-8pm, F-Sat. 10am- 5pm) 20. Kansas City, MO Public Library - Plaza Branch 4801 Main Kansas City, MO (816)-701-3481 (M-F 9am-9pm, Sa 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-6pm) 21. Kansas City, MO Public Library - Waldo Branch 201 E 75th St Kansas City, MO (816)-701-3486 (M-Th 9am-8pm, F 9am-6pm, Sa 10am-5pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) 22. YMCA - North Kansas City 1999 Iron St Kansas City, MO (816)-300-0531 (M-Th 5am-9pm; F 5am-8pm; Sa 7am-6pm; Sun 8am-5pm) 23. KCMO Parks and Recreation - Kansas City North Community Center 3930 NE Antioch Rd. Kansas City, MO (816)-784-6100 (M-F 6:30am-9pm; Sa 8am-5pm; Sun 9am-6pm) 24. Mid-Continent Public Library - Antioch Branch 6060 N Chestnut Ave. Kansas City, MO (816)-454-1306 (M-Th 9am-9pm, F 9am-6pm, Sa 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) 25. Mid-Continent Public Library - Claycomo Branch 309 NE 69 Hwy Claycomo, MO (816)-455-5030 (M-Th 9am-8pm, F 9am-6pm, Sat 10am-6pm) 26. Kansas City, MO Public Library - Northeast Branch 6000 Wilson Rd Kansas City, MO (816)-701-3485 (M-Th 9am-8pm; F 9am-5pm; Sa 10am-5pm; Sun 1pm-5pm) 27. YMCA - Linwood YMCA/James B. Nutter, Sr. Community Center 3800 E Linwood Blvd. Kansas City, MO (816)-923-5675 (M-Th 6am-8pm; F 6am-7pm; Sa-Sun 9am-3pm) 28. KCMO Parks and Recreation - Brush Creek Community Center 3801 Emanuel Cleaver II Blvd Kansas City, MO (816)-513-0730 (M-F 8am-9pm; Sa-Sun 9am-6pm) 29. Kansas City, MO Public Library - Bluford Branch 3050 Prospect Kansas City, MO (816)-701-3482 (M-Th 10am-8pm; F & Sa 10am-5pm; Sun 1pm5pm) 30. Kansas City, MO Public Library - Southeast Branch 6242 Swope Pkwy Kansas City, MO (816)-701-3484 (M-Th 10am-7pm, F & Sa 10am-5pm, Sun 1pm5pm) 31. YMCA - Red Bridge 11300 Holmes Rd Kansas City, MO (816)-942-2020 (M-Th 5am-9pm; F 5am-8pm; Sa 7am-6pm; Sun 8am-5pm) 32. KCMO Parks and Recreation - Marlborough Community Center 8200 The Paseo Boulevard Kansas City, MO (816)-784-3100 (Mon 12pm-9pm; T-F 9am-9pm; Sa 8am-5pm) 33. YMCA - Cleaver Family Center 7000 Troost Ave Kansas City, MO (816)-285-9622 (M-Th 5am-9pm; F 5am-8pm; Sa 7am-6pm; Sun 8am-5pm) 34. Mid-Continent Public Library - Red Bridge Branch 11140 Locust St Kansas City, MO (816)-942-1780 (M-Th 9am-9pm, Fri 9am-6pm, Sa 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) 35. Hillcrest Community Center 10401 Hillcrest Kansas City, MO (816)-784-7000 (M-Th 7am-9pm, F 7am-6pm, Sa 9am-6pm, Sun 12pm-6pm) 36. Mid-Continent Public Library - Blue Ridge Branch 9253 Blue Ridge Blvd Kansas City, MO (816)-761-3382 (M-Th 9am-9pm, Fri 9am-6pm, Sat 9am-5pm) Raytown, MO 37. Mid-Continent Public Library - Raytown Branch 6131 Raytown Rd. Raytown, MO (816)-353-2052 (M-Th 9am-9pm, Fri 9am-6pm, Sat 10am-6pm and Sun 1pm-5pm) Riverside, MO 38. Mid-Continent Public Library - Riverside Branch 2700 NW Vivion Rd. Riverside, MO (816)-741-6288 (M-Th 9am-8pm, F 9am-6pm, Sa 10am-6pm) 39. KCMO Parks and Recreation - Line Creek Community Center 5940 N.W. Waukomis Drive Kansas City, MO (816)-513-0760 (M-F 6am-9pm; Sa-Sun 9am-6pm) Marshall, MO 40. YMCA – Salt Fork YMCA 740 E. Yerby St. Marshall, MO 65340 (660)-886-9622 (M- Th 5am- 10 pm, F 5 am – 7 pm; Sa 6am-6pm; Sun 1 pm- 6 pm) Additional Northland Centers 41. Mid-Continent Public Library - Boardwalk Branch 8656 N Ambassador Dr. Kansas City, MO (816)-741-9011 (M-F 9am-9pm, Sa 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) 42. Mid-Continent Public Library - North Oak Branch 8700 N Oak Trfy. Kansas City, MO (816)-436-4385 (M-Th 9am-9pm, Fri 9am-6pm, Sat 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) 43. Mid-Continent Public Library - Woodneath Branch 8900 NE Flintlock Rd Kansas City MO (816)-883-4900 (M-Th 9am-9pm, F 9am-6pm, Sa 10am-6pm, Sun 1pm-5pm) Winter Driving TIPS From MODOT If possible, postpone your travel until roads have been plowed, treated, and cleared. Equip Your Vehicle With: • A flashlight with extra batteries • A first-aid kit • Necessary medications • Blankets and/or sleeping bags • A small sack of sand to use for traction under your wheels • A small shovel • Booster cables • Small tools - pliers, wrench, screwdriver • A brightly colored cloth to use as a flag • Nonperishable foods • Bottled water If You're Trapped in Your Car, call 911 • Stay in the vehicle. Don't leave to search for help. It's easy to become disoriented and lost in blowing and drifting snow. • Display a trouble sign. Hang a brightly colored cloth on the antenna. • Run the engine for about 10 minutes each hour. Run the heater and turn on the dome light only when the vehicle is running. • Keep the exhaust pipe clear of snow and open a window slightly for ventilation. • Clap hands and move your arms and legs occasionally. Don't stay in one position for too long. • If more than one person is in the car, take turns sleeping. • Huddle together for warmth. • Use newspapers, maps and even car mats for added insulation. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
01.09.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s address to the nation regarding security on our southern border and the continued government shutdown. “The President would have you to believe that we are at war on our southern border in the same vein as the War on Terror after 9/11. Most of the people trying to get into America through the southern border are seeking asylum from poverty and war and just want a better life for themselves and their families. There are issues that Congress needs to address to improve our immigration system but there is no war or national emergency on our southern border. The Department of Homeland Security’s own reports state that most terrorists attempt to enter the U.S. through airports. The President will do what he wants to incite fear, but the truth is Trump’s wall is a 5th century answer to a 21st century challenge. It is wasteful. The President touts the success of walls around the world, but students of history will note that physical walls ultimately fail. Physical barriers will always fall to human ingenuity and force of will. What the Trump Administration and Congress should do – after reopening the government – is properly fund visa processing centers to more quickly vet applicants; provide more resources for well-trained personnel at the Customs and Border Patrol, the Coast Guard, TSA, and immigration courts; and implement new technology systems to assist federal agencies. While the President continues to negotiate with Congress about the ill-advised border wall, it is irresponsible of him to hold government agencies hostage. He needs to end the government shutdown now.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) Fifth District of Missouri Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.04.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II voted to approve a legislative package that would reopen the federal government and end the Trump shutdown. The new Democratic House passed two bills late into the evening yesterday to reopen government services. • The first bill will reopen all government agencies except for the Department of Homeland Security with full fiscal year funding through September 30th – with the bipartisan funding levels and language that have advanced in the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support. • Second bill would provide a continuing resolution for the Department of Homeland Security’s funding through February 8th – the same length of time of the bill that unanimously passed the Senate two weeks ago. “It is troubling and incomprehensible that at this point, the President has dragged the nation into the second week of an unnecessary and damaging shutdown - keeping 800,000 workers’ paychecks hostage over the wall. More than 12,000 Missourians have been without pay during the holiday season. It is my priority to end the Trump shutdown and allow hardworking federal employees their earned pay and the American people their uninterrupted federal services,” said Congressman Cleaver. President Trump declared that he would be “proud” to shut down the government if he cannot force American taxpayers to spend billions of dollars on a border wall. The current House legislative package includes flat funding for the Department of Homeland Security for one month, and no new funding for a wall at the border. The one-month continuing resolution will allow more time for Congress and the President to reach an agreement on border security. “I strongly support comprehensive immigration reform that protects our borders and honors our values as a nation. In my eyes, that reform would provide a pathway to citizenship, focus on keeping families together, provide a fair and fully-funded visa processing program, and implement the newest technologies that would ensure those coming into the country do so legally,” said Congressman Cleaver. Yesterday, the Democratic House approved these bills, which must also be passed by the Senate. The package of six appropriations bills had previously been approved on a bipartisan basis in the Senate in December before President Trump backed away from the deal. Hundreds of thousands of families are at risk of losing their paychecks including FBI agents, DEA agents and Customs and Border Patrol agents that are currently being forced to work without pay. “It would be the height of irresponsibility and political cynicism for Senate Republicans to now reject the same legislation they have already supported,” said Congressman Cleaver. “It is my hope the Senate will take the responsible action of passing this legislation to reopen the federal government.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.03.2019	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, (D-Missouri) was sworn in today for his eighth term as a United States Congressman. He also delivered the opening prayer for the historic occasion. “The mid-term election brought a new era for the American people. It has been eight years since a Democratic majority ruled the House. As I took my oath today, I was reminded that now more than ever, members of Congress must demonstrate civility and respect for one another and work together through our disagreements,” said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver will continue to fight for the protections of home owners, consumers and business owners. As technology continues to rapidly expand, Congressman Cleaver will remain an advocate for oversight and accountability within the industry. Today, the new Democratic Majority will get to work to make progress in the lives of seniors, children and hard-working Americans. That involves: • Defending protections for people with pre-existing conditions, keeping Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid off the chopping block, and lowering health costs and prescription drug prices for all Americans; • We will raise workers’ wages with strong economic growth by rebuilding America’s infrastructure; • We will clean up corruption to make Washington work for the American people, reducing the role of money in politics and advancing fair elections by strengthening the Voting Rights Act. “I am looking forward to serving the constituents of Missouri’s Fifth District for another term. With each new Congress there is a chance for a new beginning,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.03.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) will be sworn into the 116th Congress on Thursday afternoon, January 3rd, by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Congressman Cleaver has been asked to deliver the opening prayer at the ceremonial swearing-in set to begin at noon EST today. Speaker Pelosi will conduct an individual ceremonial swearing-in ceremony for Congressman Cleaver following the en masse oath of office on the Floor of the House of Representatives. “This is an historic occasion and I am honored to open this new Congress with prayer and guidance from our heavenly Father,” said Congressman Cleaver. A livestream will also be available for local television stations. Information is as follows: WHO: Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) WHAT: Delivers Opening Prayer at the Ceremonial Swearing-in of the 116th Congress WHEN: Thursday, January 3, at approximately noon p.m. EST WHERE: House Floor, United States Capitol, Washington, D.C. NOTE: Livestream of the swearing-in ceremony will be available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.20.2018	(Washington, D.C. ) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II opposes President Trump’s proposal to change key components of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which provides assistance to families to help put food on the table. The Administration is now proposing to implement, through executive action, additional work requirements for some applicants and restrictions to SNAP. “House Republican leaders sought to secure these same changes to SNAP as part of the farm bill. But it didn’t work. Congress just passed a revised farm bill without these damaging provisions to SNAP. Now the President wants to ignore the law passed by Congress and implement these restrictions with the swipe of a pen,” said Congressman Cleaver. SNAP is the nation’s nutrition assistance safety net, providing billions of dollars in food benefits to people across the country. In Missouri, in 2016, SNAP reached a little over 800,000 residents--more than 10% of the population, according to the USDA profile. Those affected would be SNAP participants ages 18 through 49 who are not raising minor children in their homes. The people, whom the rule change would affect, are among the poorest of the poor, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) data show. Only 18 percent of SNAP recipients had gross income above the poverty line, while 40 percent had income at or below half the poverty line, according to the USDA. A longstanding, harsh provision of SNAP law already limits these 18-through-49-year-olds to just three months of SNAP benefits (in months that they’re not employed at least 20 hours a week) out of every three years. If you can’t find a 20-hour-a-week job, you’re cut off SNAP. Participation in a work or training program counts toward fulfilling this requirement, but states aren’t required to provide work or training slots to these individuals — and most states don’t. In addition, searching for a job does not count toward meeting the requirement. The proposed changes also would restrict a critical provision that lets states seek waivers of this three-month cut-off in areas where jobs are scarce. From the provision’s enactment in 1996 until now, Democratic and Republican administrations alike have operated under a common set of rules in considering and granting waivers from the three-month cut-off. Now, the Trump Administration is seeking to severely restrict the ability of states to apply for a waiver — an alternative that’s certain to increase hunger and destitution. “Most working-age adults on SNAP who can work, already do so. Unfortunately, low-paying jobs with unreliable hours and little to no benefits are all too common.We should be doing more to help these families, not throw them to the wind. These provisions will force people out of a program that was put in place to help them when they need a helping hand,” said Congressman Cleaver. “The President should be trying to help with policies such as better job training and employment programs and a higher minimum wage instead of denying people, who are already struggling, basic food and nutritional needs,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.19.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II condemns the recently released Federal School Safety Commission Report. The Trump administration’s report is a NRA-backed proposal which recommends arming teachers instead of focusing on making schools safer. “The report ignores a common denominator of all of the tragic school shootings our country has suffered, and that is, easy access to assault style firearms designed for war,” said Congressman Cleaver. In 2017, there were nearly 40,000 gun deaths in the United States, the highest total in decades. “Putting guns in the hands of teachers is not an effective strategy and could easily lead to more senseless shootings in our schools, “ said Congressman Cleaver. The report is a missed opportunity to expand the use of evidence-based, comprehensive approaches to preventing violence in schools and building stronger relationships between students, educators, and the community. Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS), anti-bullying programs, mental health support are some of the many proven strategies to deescalate situations and help students before the get to the point of wanting to harm themselves or others. The Commission also recommends full rescission of the Obama administration’s 2014 school discipline guidance, which assists school districts in eliminating disparities in how Black students, boys, and students with disabilities are disciplined compared to their classmates. “The Trump Administration’s School Safety Commission Report is not only a missed opportunity to ensure every student is both safe and supported in the classroom, but it is also a blatant affront to communities of color. Its suggestion that federal civil rights enforcement — and not the prevalence of firearms — is to blame for school shootings is baseless and wrong,” said Congressional Black Caucus Chair, Congressman Cedric Richmond (D-LA). “We must do more to stop discrimination in our schools. This report will only cause further criminalization of students of color for non-criminal or minor offenses,” said Congressman Cleaver. The Department of Education’s school safety report can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.12.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II today voted in favor of the Conference Report to accompany H.R. 2, commonly referred to as the 2018 Farm Bill. Following months of bipartisan negotiations between House and Senate conferees, Congressman Cleaver was proud to help pass a comprehensive Farm Bill that maintains funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), helps producers weather the current trade war, expands rural broadband infrastructure, and provides more certainty to farmers during a volatile farm economy. “For over 80 years Democrats and Republicans from the most urban of cities and the most rural of towns have come together to pass a Farm Bill that provides stability to American farmers and a safety net for those who are struggling to put food on the table,” said Congressman Cleaver. “While negotiations were tough, it’s refreshing to see Congress work together in a bipartisan fashion to get something done that will be beneficial to the state and country.” The bipartisan Farm Bill will reauthorize SNAP through 2023 with no cuts to benefits and no additional work requirements, a key to Congressman Cleaver’s support for the bill. Additionally, through administrative modifications to SNAP, this bill will provide $1 billion in savings that will be reinvested into nutrition assistance programs. “One of my main concerns with the House version of this year’s Farm Bill has always been the harmful restrictions to the nutrition assistance programs. I am very pleased to say that this bill not only protects SNAP recipients with no cuts to benefits and nobody kicked off the program, but, also, provides $1 billion in savings through administrative adjustments,” said Congressman Cleaver. Another critical component to the Farm Bill is its protection for American producers as they withstand the harmful trade war. Contained in the bill are provisions that would omit detrimental changes to foreign food aid programs and combine and establish mandatory funding for important programs to promote U.S. agricultural exports. Soybean producers have been affected particularly negatively by the trade issue with China. The Farm Bill fully funds the Foreign Market Development Program and the Market Access Program which helps soybean associations work with the USDA to develop and trade with emerging markets. “Our farmers have taken a beating over the past year thanks to this nonsensical trade war. I’m happy provisions were included to support American producers while we weather out the current trade storm,” said Congressman Cleaver. Here are a few other provisions Congressman Cleaver would like to highlight from the 2018 Farm Bill: On research: Provides $40M in mandatory funding for scholarships at 1890 land-grant universities Strengthens mental health resources within the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network Provides permanent mandatory funding for the Organic Research and Extension Initiative at $50 million per year by FY23 Provides $10 million in mandatory funding for research into issues facing urban/indoor ag production Provides $185 million in mandatory funding for the Foundation for Future Food and Agriculture Research On rural development: Authorizes $350 million per year for new broadband infrastructure Combats the opioid epidemic with authorized funds Helps struggling rural hospitals to gain better financial footing On dairy: Creates Dairy Margin Coverage to offer more coverage for lower cost when dairy farmers need it most Provides a partial refund or credit for Margin Protection Program premiums paid between 2014-2017 Additionally, pork producers will be relieved to know that the Farm Bill authorizes USDA funds for a Foot-and-Mouth Disease vaccine bank for the National Animal Health Laboratory Network. This will provide for disease surveillance and diagnostic support as well as the ability for states to prepare for any foreign animal disease outbreak. “The relationship between America’s urban and rural regions is a symbiotic one; we thrive when we work together. I’m proud to support a bipartisan Farm Bill that protects the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and funds programs critical to our nations agricultural producers.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.06.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce that the Buck O’Neil bridge located in Kansas City, Missouri has received a Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Transportation Grant in the amount of $25 million. The grant will go towards replacement of the Buck O’Neil Bridge which carries US 169 over the Missouri River in Kansas City. This project includes a wider bridge span, separated facilities for pedestrians and bicyclists, connector ramps including a direct connection between US 169 and Interstate 35, and approaching roadway. “This is great news for a bridge that is in desperate need of replacement. This will ease the concern of drivers who use the bridge daily and open doors for new economic opportunities in my district,” said Congressman Cleaver. The Buck O’Neil bridge first opened in 1956 as the Broadway Bridge. It was renamed in 2016 after the great Kansas City Monarch player, John “Buck” O’Neil. Today over 45,000 vehicles a day cross the bridge between downtown Kansas City and surrounding communities. The Missouri Department of Transportation applied for the BUILD grant. For the last several years, Congressman Cleaver worked with other members the Missouri Congressional Delegation, MODOT, and the city to find a solution that would allow for replacement of the bridge, rather than repairs only. Last year, Congressman Cleaver wrote to the Secretary of Transportation to support a TIGER grant application that would allow funding to replace the bridge. “I’m glad we could all work together to make this happen. The bridge is an example of what we can accomplish when we focus on the betterment of our communities,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
11.27.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II sent a letter today to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), encouraging NIST to endorse industry standards and ethical best practices for the independent testing of demographic-based biases in facial recognition technology. NIST is a non-regulatory agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce. In the letter to Dr. Walter Copan, NIST Director and U.S. Undersecretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology, Congressman Cleaver wrote: “Facial recognition is a powerful tool that is permeating American life, and yet, the propensity of the technology to misidentify individuals, particularly in regard to variances in skin-type and gender, is well-documented,” said Congressman Cleaver. “The potential for illegal discrimination and/or unfair practices resulting from such bias continues to concern lawmakers.” Congressman Cleaver has been a prominent voice in growing calls for diversity and regulatory reform in the rapidly-expanding tech industry: • In August 2018, Congressman Cleaver called on the Department of Justice to investigate law enforcement’s use of facial recognition technologies. • In August 2018, following a year-long investigation into FinTech small business lending practices, Congressman Cleaver announced his findings and called for the implementations of industry-wide practices to prevent discriminatory lending. • In May 2018, Congressman Cleaver sent a letter to Amazon CEO, Jeff Bezos, inquiring about the company’s “Rekognition” technology. • In May 2018, with the support of Congresswomen Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Robin Kelly (D-IL), and Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Congressman Cleaver wrote a letter to Amazon expressing frustration at the company’s refusal to institute a “Rooney Rule” that would improve the board’s racial diversity. • In February 2018, Congressman Cleaver urged cryptocurrency companies to do more in efforts to prevent extremists from using cryptocurrency to fund campaigns of hate and violence. • In November 2017, along with Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, Congressman Cleaver demanded the Internet Association—a trade association representing tech behemoths like Amazon, Facebook, and Google—address gender and racial biases among its members. • In October 2017, in conjunction with Congresswomen Bonnie Watson Coleman, Congressman Cleaver penned a letter to Facebook Chief Operating Officer, Sheryl Sandberg, and Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, encouraging them to take immediate action to combat the racially divisive content on their platforms. “As technology and the tech industry as a whole continue to evolve, it is imperative that standards are created to ensure that technology is being used responsibly and without the potential for discrimination. I look forward to the opportunity to work with NIST on formulating these recommended guidelines,” said Congressman Cleaver. Read the full letter here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
11.14.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II along with Congressmen Ro Khanna, John Lewis, and James Clyburn, introduced legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal to civil rights icon Reverend James Lawson. Rev. Lawson will be celebrating his 90th birthday this year. Rev. Lawson is recognized as one of the most consequential leaders of the civil rights movement. He spent three years in India as a missionary and studied Mahatma Gandhi’s strategy of nonviolent struggle before returning to the United States to become a leader in the Civil Rights movement. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. called Lawson the “leading theorist and strategist of nonviolence in the world.” Rev. Lawson trained activists and launched the Nashville sit-ins to challenge segregation in downtown stores. He also helped develop the strategy for the Freedom Riders who rode buses in southern states to challenge segregated seating on public buses. “Rev. James Lawson is one of the most influential African Americans in the 20th century. His non-violent stance influenced the direction of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. His fingerprints can be found on every major civil rights victory. I can’t think of anyone more deserving of this honor,” said Congressman Cleaver. “It is my great honor to sponsor this legislation to recognize the invaluable contributions that Reverend Lawson made, and continues to make, towards civil rights and social justice in this country. The lessons he brought from Gandhi’s nonviolent movement not only strengthened the Civil Rights movement here in America but demonstrated the interconnected nature of the struggles of oppressed people around the world. The teachings of Lawson and Gandhi must continue to guide the work of social justice advocates today,” said Congressman Khanna. “I will work to ensure that we pass this much deserved recognition to one of our country’s great champions for justice, Reverend James Lawson.” “As a founding Member of SNCC, I’m pleased to add my voice of support for this long overdue Congressional recognition of the many contributions and accomplishments of Reverend James Lawson in the struggle against oppression and segregation in America. His impact has been felt around the world, and I urge my colleagues in Congress to pass this legislation without delay,” said Rep. Clyburn. A text of the resolution can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
11.02.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II and Congressman Lacy Clay (MO-01) sent a letter to Missouri Attorney, General Josh Hawley, urging him to end his support for the Trump Administration lawsuit to end protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. The letter can be found here. Prior to the passage of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2010, health insurance companies could openly discriminate against consumers based on pre-existing conditions by charging more or denying coverage altogether. The ACA addressed this issue by including critical protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions, explicitly banning insurance companies from charging higher premiums or refusing coverage. In September of 2017, the Trump Administration and 20 Attorneys General—including the Attorney General of Missouri Josh Hawley—initiated a lawsuit that would nullify these protections. Recently, however, President Trump, Attorney General Hawley, and other prominent Republicans have vocalized their support for the very same protections. “I find it very interesting that many of the same individuals who have signed on to a lawsuit intended to nullify protections for pre-existing conditions are simultaneously touting their support for the exact protections they are working to end. I’m simply requesting the Attorney General follow his own example. If you believe health insurance companies should not be allowed to discriminate against Americans with pre-existing conditions, the best way to show it is by fighting this lawsuit, not by walking it down the aisle.” According to the Department of Health and Human Services, as many as 133 million Americans under the age of 65 have a pre-existing health condition. Conservative estimates show that more than one million Missourians could be affected if protections for pre-existing conditions were extinguished, most notably, the 467,500 individuals with non-group insurance coverage. “Seventy-five percent of Americans support protections for pre-existing conditions. This is an issue that will affect more than a million Missourians and tens of thousands of constituents in my congressional district. These people deserve to know exactly where their Attorney General stands on such a critical issue.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
10.12.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II applauds the congressional passage of S.3021, America’s Water Infrastructure Act, commonly referred to as WRDA. This bill would give the Army Corps of Engineers the authorization to begin navigation, flood control, storm damage and other water infrastructure projects across the country. The U.S. House of Representatives passed its version of the bill, H.R. 8, by a vote of 408-2 on June 6, 2018. House and Senate committee leaders negotiated a compromise bill, which became S. 3021. Now the bill will go to the President for his signature. “This is an effort that spans several years in the making. I’ve worked with my Republican colleagues to make sure that language was included to ensure smooth coordination of the two major parts of our local Kansas City Levees project. I’m glad we could work together to support this project and make sure several Kansas City areas are protected from flooding ,” said Congressman Cleaver. The bi-partisan bill would include several important elements: • Extend annual authorizations for dam and levee safety activities through fiscal 2023. • Authorizes $110 million a year for watercraft inspections in the Columbia, Missouri, Colorado, South Platte, and Arizona river basins to prevent the spread of invasive aquatic species into those watersheds. • Authorize $75 million to the Corps to conduct a 10-year pilot program to award single contracts for multiple hurricane and storm damage reduction projects in an area. • Authorize $125 million to be used in each of fiscal 2020 and 2021 for state public water system supervision programs. • Establishes a task force on stormwater infrastructure funding. • Authorizes $225 million in Fiscal Year 2019 and in 2020 for grants to states for projects to prevent combined sewer overflows and address stormwater. Congressman Cleaver has been an advocate for improving flood control projects in the Kansas City area under WRDA for many years. With recent appropriations and the WRDA bill, several flood control projects in the Kansas City area will have enough funding to be completed. • Turkey Creek Basin is fully funded and expected completion is in 2020. • Dodson Industrial District (Blue River Basin) is fully funded and will be completed in summer of 2020. This project will provide 500-year flood protection for 1,500 people and $380 Million in property for local businesses. • Swope Park Industrial Area was fully funded this year and will be completed in 2022. The new bridge over the levee will provide safe passage for over 400 people who work in the area. • Kansas City Levees was fully funded with the supplemental appropriations package earlier this year. This legislation would be the second WRDA measure to be enacted under the process established by the 2014 Water Resources Reform and Development Act. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
10.01.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined over 45 House members in sending a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer supporting an extension of the biodiesel tax credit this year. The letter can be found here. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which passed in February, retroactively extended the biodiesel tax incentive for 2017, but left it expired for 2018 and beyond. Biodiesel is a critical product for the State of Missouri. The biodiesel tax credit would allow producers of biodiesel to claim a tax credit of $1.00 per gallon. Biodiesel in the U.S. is usually derived from soybean oil and can be used in diesel engines without modification. Soybean growers, producers and suppliers provide thousands of family jobs, and on average, the biofuel industry creates over 6,600 jobs each year in Missouri. (See statistics here from the Missouri Dept. of Economic Development) Congressman Cleaver is a strong supporter of the biodiesel tax incentive because the Fifth District is home to a primary biodiesel plant, The Paseo Cargill Energy, LLC in Kansas City, Missouri. Missouri is the home of the National Biodiesel Board. Family farms, land values and even local government tax rolls have increased in value as a result of the biodiesel industry. Soybean prices have been decimated by the administration’s trade war with China. As a result, soybean prices have been falling since July of this year and will not likely recover in time for harvest. These low prices will leave many small farms in the red. “A multi-year extension of the biodiesel tax incentive needs to be passed without delay. This is not the time to potentially handcuff our farmers from another viable market. We need to bring back some certainty when it comes to buying and selling grain from our foreign partners,” said Congressman Cleaver. “It is incredibly difficult for farmers and biodiesel refiners to plan for the future with this current trade war." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
09.24.2018	(Mobile, Alabama) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II delivered his speech for the christening of the USS Kansas City, LCS 22, today in a special ceremony today in Mobile, Alabama. The LCS 22 can support modular weapons, sensor systems and a variety of manned and unmanned vehicles to capture and sustain littoral maritime supremacy. Kansas City is the eleventh of 17 Independence-variant LCS Austal USA has under contract with the U.S. Navy. The ship’s sponsor, Mrs. Tracy Davidson, wife of Admiral Philip S. Davidson, USN, Commander, United States Indo-Pacific Command, headlined the group of officials, naval guests, civic leaders, community members, and Austal USA employees who attended the ceremony beneath the hull of the ship in Austal USA’s final assembly bay. A native of Missouri with a degree from Southern Methodist University, Tracy is an active Navy spouse who has volunteered with family readiness groups, been an Ombudsman, served on support group boards, and mentored the Command Leadership Class. Below are Congressman Cleaver's remarks: Video of the entire ceremony can be found here. "Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the privilege to address you all today. It is a great honor to be here at such a historic event. Thank you to Secretary of the Navy Richard Spencer, Admiral Davidson and your wife Tracy for your leadership in making today’s events possible and for inviting me to partake. There are very few moments in one’s life to participate in or become a witness to history in real time. This is one of those moments, and I appreciate this wonderful opportunity. This fine ship, named after Kansas City, the largest city in Missouri and located euphemistically at the junction of jazz and boulevard of BBQ, will soon transfer into the water with a symbolic gesture of good luck and safe travels...with a bottle broken over the bow. The USS Kansas City, without a doubt, will carry with it many stories and journeys that only a few are privileged to make. I am proud that the Navy chose Kansas City, a city I represented during the 90’s as its Mayor and now as its Member in Congress, to hold the title of this Littoral Combat Ship. Kansas City shares a unique history with the Navy. There is one story in particular that comes to mind regarding the Darby Steel Corporation in the Kansas City West Bottoms. In the 1940’s and 50’s, Darby produced LCT’s…the Landing Crafts for Tanks. During World War II, these LCT’s were used in various missions and invasions across the globe. History states, the skilled craftsmen and women…mostly women at that time…would build a ship a day and then float them more than a thousand miles along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers until they reached the Gulf of Mexico. It was the biggest shipyard operation in the entire Midwest region. As told by two news reporters, Haskell and Fowler, in one moving story, the company built about 60 of these vessels in Kansas City and Leavenworth for the Navy during World War II, however, the ships were relegated to the docks because the water was too low to sail them down-river. The Navy needed those vessels, and right away, so they found a dam at Ft. Peck…far up the way in Montana, and ordered the water released from the dam. The water was released, but by the time it traveled all the way to Missouri, it only increased the water level by one inch. But by God’s grace, days later, clouds rolled over Kansas City and torrential rains came. The river rose four feet overnight. Days later, Operation Overlord was given the green light, and, On June 6, D-Day was upon us! Those same midwestern barges, built in Kansas City, Missouri, were sent to the beaches of Normandy for the most consequential invasion in American history. That was history in the moment. To think where the USS Kansas City might end up in history is exciting. The reconfigurability of the ship makes it a force multiplier in any environment for the Navy. Perhaps this vessel will be crucial in search and rescue operations or a critical link in security operations. Perhaps it will be used to build partnerships with other nations by entering previously inaccessible, shallow-water foreign ports. What the future holds for this ship, is anyone’s guess. What I do know, without a doubt, is that the brave men and women, who took an oath to uphold the constitution and protect you and I and the liberty we hold so dear, are the true heroes and protagonists of this story. They are the ones who will be making history. They are the ones who will serve on this ship and who will make all of us from around the nation, but especially those of us from Kansas City proud as it sails with our city’s name. As you know, this is not the only vessel named in honor of the Show Me State. The USS Missouri, also known as the “Mighty Mo”, serves as a marker in history. It was the last battleship commissioned by the United States and is remembered to this day as the site where Japan formally surrendered, ending World War II. In fact, over 30 ships have been named after the state of Missouri…its cities, places, and people…including one of my personal inspirations, President Harry S. Truman. As I close, I want to convey that this ship will sail with the support of the entire city. Any sailor who steps aboard the USS Kansas City will find themselves an honorary Kansas Citian and a constituent of mine. Go therefore, USS Kansas City and make your mark, assume your place in history. Be proud of your accomplishments and make the most of your failures. As President Truman through his wit and wisdom once said, “Men make history. History does not make the man.” Thank you and God Bless." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
09.11.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II sent a letter to Secretary Sonny Perdue of the United States Department of Agriculture, addressing farmers’ concerns about financial assistance. The administration has proposed a $12 billion aid package to help farmers negatively affected by retaliatory tariffs. The bulk of the assistance package will come from the Market Facilitation Program (MFP) and administered by the Farm Service Agency (FSA). This program will provide payments to corn, cotton, dairy, hog, sorghum, soybean and wheat producers. Some farmers say the $12 billion in aid does not sufficiently make up for the disparaging gap between what farmers have lost because of tariffs and this year’s drought. “The payments will provide some relief from the current trade disruption, but not enough to make most of the farmers in my Fifth Congressional District whole,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Farmers in this country are not responsible for this trade war and are telling me that they prefer trade, not aid. My desire is to simply allow Missouri’s farmers to receive benefits from this program in an equitable way and to encourage the Administration to resolve the current trade disputes,” Cleaver stated in the letter. Farmers are expected to receive payments on 50 percent of this year’s yield, multiplied by a specific rate for each commodity during the first round of payments. But some farmers argue that this year’s yield is not an accurate measure because of the devastating effects of this year’s drought. Congressman Cleaver asks Sec. Perdue to consider using a multi-year configuration of yields to determine the amount of aid provided and to end the ongoing trade wars. The letter to Sec. Perdue can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available at here.
08.29.2018	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II seeks input from places of worship and charitable organizations who have been impacted by a provision included in the GOP Tax Bill. The Tax Bill and Jobs Act now requires churches, synagogues, and other nonprofit organizations to begin paying a 21 percent tax in January 2019 on some benefits including transportation, meals and parking. On Monday, August 27th, Congressman Cleaver hosted an informational meeting regarding the new tax provision. Congressman Cleaver invited the senior counsel from the House of Representatives Committee on Ways and Means to help answer questions and address concerns regarding the new tax on places of worship and charitable organizations. Based upon conversations earlier this week, many leaders were not aware of these changes and some feared the financial impact it would have on their organization. Leaders of places of worship, charities, and nonprofit organizations can log on to Congressman Cleaver’s website at www.cleaver.house.gov, under the “Serving You” tab, to complete a survey to voice their concerns about the new tax provision. “This is something clergy and charitable organizations have never had to deal with before. I just want to make sure I am hearing from my constituents about how they are impacted by this,” said Congressman Cleaver. In conjunction with other House members, Congressman Cleaver co-sponsored H.R. 6504, a bill introduced in the House by Representative James E. Clyburn, commonly known as the “Stop the Tax Hike on Charities and Places of Worship Act”. This bill would repeal the provision. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
08.17.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II announced today the findings of his investigation into the small business lending practices of Financial Technology (FinTech) companies. Last year, Congressman Cleaver launched an investigation to study the methods that FinTech companies use to protect consumers against discriminatory practices. One of the primary focuses of the survey was the use of automated algorithms in loan applications. While many FinTech companies claim their algorithms protect against discrimination, many respondents failed to demonstrate how they protect consumers from unintentional discrimination. It is imperative that automated lending algorithms avoid geographical and race-based biases. Companies mentioned in this investigation include LendUp, Fora Financial, Biz2Credit, Kabbage, LendingClub, and OnDeck Capital, Inc. It should be noted that LendUp is in fact a consumer lending company, however they agreed to participate in this investigation. “The initial findings are clear as day. We need to further understand how lenders may be intentionally or unintentionally offering higher interest rates to minorities and underserved communities, and work to implement industry-wide best practices” said Congressman Cleaver. The investigation results can be read here. Three key findings in the investigation revealed: 1.) FinTech loans are more likely to be used by minority-owned companies 2.) More action is needed in order to limit unfair business practices 3.) Some participants have implemented practices that should be widely adopted Some companies disclosed existing measures that help prevent discrimination, such as utilizing third-party fair lending audits that analyze loan origination data to determine whether there are statistically significant discriminatory markups. However, the investigation also uncovered problematic practices, such as extracting a customer’s personal credit score in order to determine a business’s credit worthiness, and utilizing forced arbitration clauses that forbid the borrower to take the lender to court. During the 115th Congress, Congressman Cleaver has made it a priority to protect consumers as technology continues to rapidly expand. These initiatives include: • Writing to the Internet Association (IA) demanding the organization monitor social media platforms and work to stop the spread of racial and gender bias. The letter can be read here. In response to Congressman Cleaver’s call to action, the Internet Association (IA) created a new initiative and Director of Diversity and Inclusion Policy position within the organization, to work on diversity and workforce policies in the tech industry. • Writing to the CEO’s of Twitter and Facebook encouraging them to combat the spread of racially divisive communications on social media and encouraging them to hire more African Americans on their senior staff. • Meeting with Facebook’s COO, Sheryl Sandberg, along with members of the Congressional Black Caucus, to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the company’s system to influence the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. • Sending letters to the Bitcoin Foundation and the Chamber of Digital Commerce calling on them to do more to prevent extremists groups from using cryptocurrency to fund their radical and violent agendas. Those letters can be found here and here. This summer, Congressmen Cleaver hosted a FinTech Roundtable in Kansas City, Missouri. At the roundtable, leaders of several FinTech companies, financial institutions and lawmakers discussed the future of FinTech, servicing the underserved, and the importance of enhancing diversity in the technology industry. “I believe FinTech lending has the potential to be advantageous for small businesses looking to get a leg up in a competitive market, but I also believe they must be honest, transparent and inclusive,” said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver will continue to advocate for oversight of the industry, including the completion of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s small business data collection rulemaking, that will help law enforcement detect and deter small business lending discrimination. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
08.16.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II calls on the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate the current use of facial recognition software by law enforcement agencies. Some state, federal and municipal law enforcement agencies use facial recognition to identity suspects and expedite investigations. A growing body of evidence suggests that the technology has the potential to disproportionately impact minorities and women – among other concerns. In a letter to Acting Assistant Attorney General John Gore of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division, Congressman Cleaver wrote; “Technology innovations may enhance existing police practices, but they should also not disrupt basic civil rights protections. For this reason, I implore the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division to investigate whether the uses of facial recognition technology – as currently utilized- by law enforcement agencies are in violation of the civil rights protections…” The letter to the DOJ can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
08.16.2018	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II sent a letter to the Financial Services Committee calling for a congressional hearing with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) and various national banks to inquire about a recently surfaced policy that requires customers to prove their citizenship status. “I recently became aware of this after hearing reports of people in the area whose bank accounts had been frozen because they did not respond to an inquiry from the bank on their citizenship status. They are interfering with the livelihood of citizens,” said Congressman Cleaver. It appears that certain banks may be interpreting the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 and the Patriot Act of 2001 as justification for seeking citizenship information but none of these laws explicitly require such an ask. In the letter found here, Congressman Cleaver seeks to find out; • What quantifiable measures have banks put in place to ensure this new proof of citizenship protocol is not causing a significant invasion into a customer’s individual privacy? • Are banks voluntarily reporting non-citizen account holder information to the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) or other immigrant enforcement agencies, who have not requested the information as part of a criminal investigation? “Although it is necessary to implement measures to combat and counteract financial crimes, it is also imperative to understand how this policy of requesting proof of citizenship will further safeguard our national security,” Congressman Cleaver states in the letter. Congressman Cleaver is requesting a congressional hearing with the OCC and FinCEN to provide perspective, seek clarity, and identify a solution. “The frustration and inconvenience of frozen bank accounts can damage consumers’ financial status…missed mortgage and utility payments, unnecessary overdraft fees, and negative credit ratings,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
07.31.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II would like to hear from businesses in the Fifth District of Missouri impacted by recently imposed tariffs. “I want to hear from business organizations, farm operations and workers in the Fifth District who are worried about a trade war or are already feeling the impact of tariffs on their businesses,” said Congressman Cleaver. Business leaders who wish to speak with Congressman Cleaver about their concerns can visit his website at https://cleaver.house.gov/serving-you/trade-survey to enter their information. Or, if preferred, you can contact one of my district offices to fill-out a survey in person. Address: Kansas City, MO Office: 101 W. 31st Street, Kansas City, MO 64108, (816) 842-4545 Higginsville, MO Office: 1923 Main Street, Higginsville, MO 64037, (660)-584-7373 Independence, MO Office: 211 Maple Ave., Independence, MO 64050, (816) 833-4545 In June, Congressman Cleaver, along with Canadian Consul General John Cruickshank, hosted a public meeting in Higginsville, Missouri for farmers and local business leaders to discuss the impact of tariffs and the future of NAFTA renegotiations. He also attended a dinner with Kansas City business leaders to answer questions about trade and the impacts of tariffs. President Trump imposed tariffs on the European Union, Canada, China, and Mexico. In retaliation, those countries have imposed tariffs on the U.S. In addition to the direct impacts of tariffs on American-made goods which businesses want to sell in overseas markets, tariffs can have negative effects on the price of goods for American consumers. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce estimated $881 million of Missouri exports are threatened by retaliatory tariffs. You can see an interactive map of how each state is threatened here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
07.11.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II’s (D-MO) bipartisan housing bill, H.R. 5793, The Housing Choice Voucher Mobility Demonstration Act of 2018, passed on the House floor by a vote of 368-19. This bill will help low-income families, who rely on housing vouchers, move out of poverty and into neighborhoods with better opportunities. The bill authorizes a Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) demonstration program to enable public housing agencies to form a regional consortia to help families who participate in the Housing Choice Voucher Program move to lower-poverty areas within the region. H.R. 5793 will allow public housing agencies to better coordinate and enable families to move from one neighborhood to another. The bill draws on research from Harvard economists that indicates that children who move to higher opportunity neighborhoods increase their chances of success. The study found that children with these increase opportunities were 32 percent more likely to attend college and earned 31 percent more a year than their counterparts in lower income neighborhoods. “This bill will give people hope and opportunity. Many people need only a chance and a little help. This bill offers them both and a pathway to escape the circle of poverty,” said Congressman Cleaver. The Housing and Insurance Subcommittee Chairman, Sean Duffy (R-WI), joined Ranking Member Cleaver as co-author of H.R. 5793. “I want to thank Chairman Duffy for working with me on this piece of legislation, as well as the Chair and Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee. It shows you what we can do when we work together,” Congressman Cleaver continued. This is the third bipartisan Housing bill which passed in the House of Representatives authored by Congressman Cleaver. Earlier this year, Congressmen Cleaver and Duffy successfully passed H.R. 4258, The Family Self Sufficiency Act. Last Congress, Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) secured passage of H.R. 3700, The Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act. H.R. 3700 was one of the largest sweeping reforms of our nation’s housing programs in the last two decades designed to improve and create additional efficiency in our housing programs for low-income families. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
07.10.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement on the selection of Judge Brett Kavanaugh as the nominee for the next Supreme Court Justice. "Granted by the authority given to him under the constitution, President Trump has nominated Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. While it is the President’s duty to nominate a justice, the Senate is given the responsibility of vetting and either confirming or denying the President’s selection. After studying various decisions written by Judge Kavanaugh on some of the prominent issues of our time, I would be very concerned about the future of the highest court in the land, should he be confirmed. Whoever becomes our next Supreme Court justice, he/she will have the ability to cast the deciding vote to overturn Roe v. Wade, to strike down pre-existing condition protections in the ACA, to roll back LGBTQ rights, to weaken American workers’ right to unionize, to eliminate affirmative action, and to strip away so many other rights that Americans currently appreciate. With this much at stake, it is essential that the Senate take a long look at past decisions and vet this nominee with the utmost scrutiny. Below are only a few of the troubling decisions written by Judge Kavanaugh: Judge Kavanaugh has taken numerous positions that question his ability to be an independent check on the President, stating that investigations of presidents should be deferred while in office and a president needn’t obey it when he “deems the law unconstitutional.” Judge Kavanaugh argued that the D.C. Circuit should consider a claim that the ACA was unconstitutional. [CITE] Judge Kavanaugh argued that the Trump administration could keep a young girl in federal custody to prevent her obtaining constitutionally-protected health care. [CITE] I have little doubt that Judge Kavanaugh is a good man and a legal expert, but his history on critical issues has been less than satisfactory and certainly not enough to warrant a seat on the Supreme Court of the United States of America. Confirmation of the next Supreme Court justice will shape the court for decades to come. It is not a decision to be taken lightly, especially when the very fundamental rights that many of us rely upon are at risk." Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
07.02.2018	June 26, 2018 (Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce a community discussion on trade on Monday, July 2nd, 2018 in Higginsville, MO. The guest speaker for the meeting will be Consul General John Cruikshank from the Canadian Consulate in Chicago, IL. The Consul General will be speaking about NAFTA negotiations and the current trade issues between Canada and the United States. Canada is Missouri’s number one customer and sells more to Missouri than it sells to India, according to the Consulate General of Canada. Over 160, 000 jobs in Missouri depend on trade and investment with Canada. Missouri’s automobile industry steers a large portion of the state’s economy. For example, as a major producer of steel and aluminum parts for the auto-sector, Ontario-based Martinrea International Inc. employs over 300 people at a site in Riverside, MO. Missouri’s famers and manufacturers export $800 million in products and services to Canada each year. The White House announced a 25 percent tariff for steel and a 10 percent tariff for aluminum earlier this spring. The tariffs have yielded retaliatory tariffs from several nations. • Mexico has imposed $3 billion worth of tariffs on U.S exports. These include 20 percent tariffs on U.S. pork, apples, and potatoes, and a 25 percent tariff on cheese and bourbon. • The EU has implemented tariffs on over $7 Billion worth of U.S goods such as denim, orange juice, bourbon, peanut butter, motor boats and cigarettes. Missouri has over $246 Million worth of goods that are subject to the EU tariffs. • Canada has imposed tariffs on a wide variety of U.S. exports set to take effect July 1st. The 25% tariff on nearly $13 Billion in US goods include: steel and aluminum, prepared meals, maple syrup and pizza. • China has implemented a new 15 percent tariff on 120 U.S. imported goods, including fruits and wine and has increased existing tariffs on pork and scrap aluminum to 25 percent. “President Trump’s tariffs imposed on the EU, Canada, China, and Mexico will hurt Missouri farmers far more than this administration is willing to admit. Agriculture is Missouri’s top industry, providing over 400,000 jobs in Missouri and the impact of these tariffs will create unnecessary financial hardships on farmers. I’m calling on the rural community to join us for a discussion on this issue and to share your concerns,” said Congressman Cleaver. Where: Higginsville Community Center 2101 Walnut Street, Higginsville, MO, 64037 When: Monday, July 2, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. CST Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.26.2018	June 26, 2018 (Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the travel ban which denies visas to nationals of six Muslim-majority countries. The lower courts struck down three previous versions of the travel ban. The Supreme Court announced its decision with a vote of 5-4 today on the case of Trump v. Hawaii. “I am troubled by the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the travel ban. President Trump’s travel ban on specific countries undoubtedly targets Muslims. It is discriminatory and immoral. For the Supreme Court to uphold such a ban is an endorsement of further discrimination and religious intolerance. It is shameful. When the travel ban was ordered during President Trump’s first year in office, I held a town hall in Kansas City, Missouri focusing specifically on immigration and the executive orders signed by the President. Thousands of people attended concerned about how the travel ban, then and now, would devastate families, rip them from their loved ones and encourage people to fear and develop animosity toward Muslims. Make no mistake, we cannot allow our country to ban people solely because of their religion or nationality.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.21.2018	June 21, 2018 (Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement regarding President Trump’s recently signed Executive Order to address the issue of children being separated from their parents at the border. “The Trump administration has not yet demonstrated that they are doing all they can to reunite detained children with their families and answer the questions that those of us in Congress and around the country are asking. This crisis was created by President Trump with his decision to enforce a zero-tolerance policy for those coming over the southern border. The executive order signed yesterday is an attempt to solve a problem that the President himself created, and does not formally end the zero-tolerance policy. Furthermore, the executive order does not reunite the thousands of families already separated. While the order allows families to be detained together – dependent upon available resources - it opens the door for the families to be detained indefinitely while the parents are prosecuted. The Administration has yet to answer many questions regarding how these families will be reunited, how many have been put in foster care, what kind of oversight is being done at these facilities housing unaccompanied minors, and how much money the government is spending on the contracts for these facilities. I am heart-broken when I think about these children, and the parents who may or may not be reunited with their babies, their flesh and blood. We cannot and should not detain families indefinitely. What we must do now is work on reunification, even though many of these children have been shipped across the country and some of their parents may have already been deported. Childhood adversity and trauma can have lasting, long-term consequences on a person’s health. This is not what America should stand for.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.20.2018	June 20, 2018 (Washington, D.C. ) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II was given the honor of introducing Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Nominee Geoffrey Starks at the Senate Commerce Committee Nomination Hearing today in Washington, D.C. Geoffrey Starks is a Kansas City native and is currently one of the assistant bureau chiefs at the FCC. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is an independent agency of the United States government created by statute to regulate interstate communications by radio, television, wire, satellite, and cable. The FCC works towards six goals in the areas of broadband, competition, the spectrum, the media, public safety and homeland security, and modernizing itself. Below are Congressman Cleaver’s introduction remarks; “Thank you to the chair and the ranking member for allowing me to introduce a very special individual this morning. Today, I’m here to introduce Mr. Geoffrey Starks, a Kansas City native and current nominee to the Federal Communications Commission. Mr. Starks, as I just mentioned, was born and raised in, Kansas City and actually participated in Bible School for several summers at the church which I used to preside over, St. James United Methodist Church. Like most folks from Kansas City, Mr. Starks is a die-hard fan of the Royals and Chiefs, and was even a witness to one of the greatest events in American history—the Royals winning the World Series in 2015. But I’m here to talk about his qualifications to be a commissioner of the FCC, so let’s get to that. Following his graduation from Rockhurst High School, a prestigious school in Kansas City, Mr. Starks attended Harvard University for his undergraduate degree, and then continued his education with a JD from Yale Law School. Upon completion of his law degree, Mr. Starks returned home to Kansas City to clerk for Judge Duane Benton of the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals. Eventually, Mr. Starks made his way to the FCC and worked his way up to Enforcement Bureau Assistant Chief, a prominent position within the agency. And now he is ready to take the next step, and join the FCC as a commissioner. Throughout his life, Mr. Starks has been and will continue to be a dedicated public servant. He has a passion for justice, as seen in his experience practicing law, but also in his dedication to enhance gender and racial inclusion within the tech industry. His commitment to expand access to broadband throughout the country and to close the digital divide between the haves and the have-nots will surely be a welcomed sight to American consumers across the nation. When looking at the qualities required for this position, I cannot think of an individual more qualified or prepared. I look forward to working with Mr. Starks as the next commissioner of the FCC.” Mr. Starks will fill the democratic seat vacated by former FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn. His appointment will require approval from the Senate. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.07.2018	June 7, 2018 (Washington, D.C. ) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II spoke on the House floor today about importance of a apology and the need to apologize to Sen. John McCain. These are his remarks. The video can be found here. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker, I'm only able to raise my right arm to maybe 50%. Sometimes not that much. But that's due to shoulder separations from playing football. John McCain cannot raise his arms because he was tortured in Vietnam. I believe that it is just about sinful for Mr. Mccain in his days of serious, serious illness to have anyone in this country, particularly anyone in the position of significance, to say things about him that cannot in any way bless him or encourage him. But in fact, denounce him through baseless attacks. Mr. Speaker, when I was elected, I promised my four children that I would never come to the well of this House and attack a human being or call them names. unfortunately, things have changed in this country to the point now where that's a part of our daily way of doing the business of the greatest nation God has ever allowed to exist. There is something wrong, Mr. Speaker, when the elected leaders of our country refuse to apologize. There is not a single parent watching the goings on in this chamber who would tell their children no matter what you do, no matter how awful you hurt another human being, you better not apologize. We're setting examples for children and unborn children by what we do in this chamber. how in the world can a person sleep at night who can hurt another individual and not apologize? I guesS There Are Some Things I Will Never Apologize for. I will never apologize for never coming to the floor to attack a colleague. I will never apologize for respecting a person with whom I may disagree. I will never apologize for displaying respect for a member of the other party though their policies are separate and distinct from mine. I will never apologize for trying to get my point across without stabbing someone with it. I will never apologize for being sensitive to the pain and hurt of others. I will never apologize for being an apologist when I've wronged someone. Silence is consent. And when I see this going on around this chamber, and I see it going on in other places in our government, I know that there are millions of people who believe that that's ok. That if it's done by someone in my party, it's ok. I have said to my family, I said to our church, I said to my colleagues here, if the leaders of the Democratic Party, Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer stand up and attack someone, particularly someone who is ill, I would come to the floor and condemn them. Right and wrong is not based on party. It's based on right and wrong. We're becoming a mean-spirited nation. And no one watching this would tell that children, I want you to watch what's going on in Washington and use what you see as an example on how to live. Mr. Speaker, Washington is dark right now and the people around this country who believe in light should let it shine. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
06.05.2018	June 5, 2018 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II announced the results of a two-year study released yesterday from the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) regarding how the Central States Pension Fund handled thousands of pensions that are facing insolvency. “What happened to these workers and retirees just isn’t right. Now that we know and understand the results, it is time for Congress to take action. The thousands of hard-working individuals spent their working years putting away money for retirement only to find that money has vanished. Retirees must not give up. This is vital,” said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver, along with other members of the House and Senate, called for an investigation after hundreds of retirees and workers contacted his office regarding the stability of the Central States Pension Fund (CSPF). The GAO, which investigates federal spending and conducts audits, determined that; • Cumulative contributing factors for CSPF’s critical financial condition include lack of full funding over its history; investment declines as a result of two market downturns; and a steep decline in active contributors from 69 percent of all participants in 1982 to 16 percent in 2016; and United Parcel Service’s withdrawal in 2007, which accounted for a 30 percent loss of active contributors. • CSPF investment performance and expenses were generally in line with similarly-sized institutional investors with demographically similar (peer) multiemployer pension plans. • CSPF’s investment fees and other administrative expenses were in line with other large multiemployer plans from 2000 to 2014. Fees as a percentage of assets were about 9 percent lower than the median of large defined benefit multiemployer plans—largely due to a relative reduction in investment fees since 2007. The full GAO report can be found here. “I had a gentleman call my office who said, he has never needed to call his Congressman’s office for anything until now. He takes chemo pills for Leukemia and if he can’t get his pension because of what has happened, he won’t be able to get his pills. We have to make this right,” said Congressman Cleaver. The House and Senate have convened a Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Pension Plans to determine ways to improve long-term health. The committee is seeking stakeholder input from affected workers, retirees, and businesses. Comments will be read and considered by committee staff in advance of recommendations. Public comments must be received by September 30, 2018. Instructions on providing comments can be found here. Congressman Cleaver has been working to help Central States Pension Fund retirees and active workers since 2015. He held a town hall, in which nearly a thousand people attended to hear U.S. Treasury’s Ken Feinberg speak. He cosponsored H.R. 4444, the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act (also known as the Butch Lewis Act), which creates a new office within the U.S. Treasury Department called the Pension Rehabilitation Administration (PRA). The PRA would allow pension plans to borrow the money they need to remain solvent and continue providing retirement security for retirees and workers for decades to come. Congressman Cleaver will continue to push House Leadership to bring up the Butch Lewis Act for a vote to address CSPF’s looming insolvency. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
05.23.2018	May, 23, 2018 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II’s (D-MO) bipartisan housing voucher bill, H.R. 5793, The Housing Choice Voucher Mobility Demonstration Act of 2018, was unanimously approved by the House Committee on Financial Services yesterday. This bill will help low-income families move up the economic ladder and reduce barriers that keep multiple generations in poverty. The bill authorizes a Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) demonstration program to enable public housing agencies to form a regional consortia to help families who participate in the Housing Choice Voucher Program move to lower-poverty areas within the region. Currently, in 35 of the 100 largest metro areas, the Housing Choice Voucher Program is administered by ten or more agencies. H.R. 5793 will allow public housing agencies to better coordinate and enable families to move from one neighborhood to another. “What we have done with this bill is removed barriers. The only difference between people who have, and people who don’t have, is opportunity. If we give people an opportunity, they are more than willing to seize it,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I know this from personal experience. If it had not been for my father moving us out of public housing and into our home and giving us a better opportunity in life, I would not be here today. I’d like to thank Congressman Duffy for working with me across party lines on this bill,” Cleaver continued. Harvard University economists have found that children who move to higher opportunity neighborhoods increase their chances of success. More specifically, a recent study found that children who were able to use housing vouchers to move to low-poverty areas were 32 percent more likely to attend college and earned 31 percent more a year than their counterparts in lower income neighborhoods. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities (CBPP) estimates that this demonstration project could allow over 7,000 families to move to areas of opportunity. The Housing and Insurance Subcommittee Chairman, Sean Duffy (R-WI), joined Ranking Member Cleaver as co-author of H.R. 5793. This is the third bipartisan Housing bill which passed Committee authored by Congressman Cleaver. Earlier this year, Congressmen Cleaver and Duffy successfully passed H.R. 4258, the Family Self Sufficiency Act. Last Congress, Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) secured passage of H.R. 3700, the Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act. This bill was one of the largest sweeping reforms of our nation’s housing programs in the last two decades designed to improve and create additional efficiency in our housing programs for low-income families. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.17.2018	(May 17, 2018 - Washington, D.C.) – Congressmen Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced H. Res. 901 calling on and encouraging the White House to issue a public apology to Senator John McCain for comments made by White House Communication’s Aide Kelly Sadler. The resolution, of which a draft can be found here, states; “Whereas, on May 10, 2018 in response to Senator John McCain’s call for fellow senators to oppose the nomination of Gina Haspel to lead the Central Intelligence Agency because she oversaw the agency’s use of torture, White House Communications Aide Kelly Sadler was widely reported to have stated, ‘It doesn’t matter, he’s dying anyway’.” Congressmen Cleaver and Jones believe Senator McCain served honorably in the United States Navy and deserves dignity and respect. “The President, perhaps more so than any elected official in this great country, should practice the politics of decency,” said Congressman Cleaver. “These comments are outrageous and unacceptable,” said Congressman Jones. “It’s a sad day in this country when White House officials are mocking a man who, while serving his country, was tortured as a prisoner of war. He’s more than earned the right to speak out on these matters. A public apology should be issued immediately.” Congressman Cleaver recently made an appearance on MSNBC Live with Alex Witt in which he was asked about the climate of racially motivated incidents by police and others. The Congressman was referencing bigotry and hatred but be believes the same rules of decency apply when it comes to apologizing for one’s mistakes. He responded to Alex Witt by saying, “it starts from the top” referring to the actions and reactions from our leader-in-chief. “The mean-spiritedness coming out of the White house is giving rise to what we are seeing because I think many people are thinking, well if the President can make these comments then right wing protestors, hate groups, and the President refusing to apologize…there’s not a parent in America who would teach their children not to apologize after they have done something wrong.” Watch the full interview here. Congressman Cleaver is the co-chair of the Civility Caucus and has joined other Members in a movement to revive civility on Capitol Hill. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
05.16.2018	(Washington, D.C) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is proud to announce the inclusion of $3 million for the U.S. World War I Centennial Commission (WWICC) in the draft of the Department of the Interior FY 2019 Appropriations Bill. The World War I Centennial Commission was created in 2013 by an Act of Congress, sponsored by Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) to honor, educate and commemorate soldiers and participants of World War I. “This funding will allow the WWICC to continue their mission of honoring the sacrifices of our WWI veterans,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Over 4.7 million men and women served our nation in uniform and over 116,000 Americans gave their lives in defense of liberty.” Earlier this year, the WWICC received $7 million from the Omnibus Spending Bill for FY2018. That funding is dedicated to educational efforts in all 50 states during the centennial. Congressman Cleaver has been a long-time supporter of WWI commemoration efforts. He was the co-author of the 2014 WWI American Veterans Centennial Commemorative Coin Act. The coin was struck this past November. In addition, the National World War I Museum and Memorial is located in Kansas City, MO. After the war, local Kansas Citians joined to together to raise over $2 million to create that lasting monument. In 1921, more than 100,000 people gathered to see General Pershing and the supreme Allied commanders dedicate the site of the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City. Congressman Cleaver attended the ground breaking for a second national WWI memorial to be located at Pershing Park in our nation’s capital. Commemoration events are scheduled throughout the next year nationwide to educate American citizens about the causes and consequences of the “war to end all wars” and to honor the heroism and sacrifices of those Americans who served. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.14.2018	WASHINGTON – As Kansas City residents continue seeing water and sewer costs rise, U.S Senators Claire McCaskill and Roy Blunt, and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver II, have requested the Trump Administration support modifications to the Kansas City sewer overflow control program to help lower costs for Kansas City residents. “To comply with the consent decree Kansas City has raised local sewer rates, averaging double digit increases every year since the decree was entered,” wrote the Missouri lawmakers to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt and Attorney General Jeff Sessions. “Such rate increases cannot continue indefinitely. Kansas City has used these rate increases to make considerable progress, and its program has become a model for communities nationwide. Unfortunately, the economic impact of the skyrocketing water and sewer rates on residents, especially low-income residents, has become alarming.” Since reaching a consent decree with the EPA in 2010, Kansas City has worked with the Environmental Protection Agency to develop a sewer overflow control program to meet regulatory requirements and reduce overflows from the sewer systems, which the city has continually complied with—often at the cost of city residents through increased rates. Due to the sheer magnitude, complexity, and cost of the program, Johnson County, Kan., and the City of Liberty, Mo., have left the Kansas City regional water and sewer system. The Missouri lawmakers continued, “Given the increasing economic burden, the loss of regional partners, and Kansas City’s consistent efforts to achieve the requirements of the consent decree we ask that your offices continue to work with Kansas City to modify the [overflow control program]. A modification should focus on meeting the City’s environmental goals while managing the economic burden on City residents, preventing the loss of any of the City’s other regional sewer partners, and be adaptive so City residents will receive the greatest possible benefits in return for the significant wastewater rates they will have to pay over the next several decades.” Full text of the letter can be found here.
05.11.2018	(Kansas City, MO) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following letter this afternoon urging the Ford Motor Company to keep Missourians working at the Claycomo site. Ford produces the F-150 pickup and the Transit van in Kansas City. The F-150 has been the best-selling vehicle in the U.S. for the past 36 years. See the text of the letter below. May 11, 2018 Mr. James Hackett President and Chief Executive Officer Ford Motor Company 1 American Road Dearborn, Michigan 48126 Dear Mr. Hackett, We would like to bring your attention to the severity of the recent supply-chain decision facing Ford’s F-150 line, specifically the local impact that the Claycomo Plant closure will have on the greater Kansas City community and some 3,600 hardworking Missourians. Understandably, without the necessary parts, operations of any supply chain would be difficult but we encourage you to keep in mind the effects of any long term and undefined plant closure to our community. We want to applaud your initial outreach to the affected workers and encourage continued dialogue regarding pay and benefits for all workers, including temporary employees, as this will have an unexpected impact to some of Kansas City’s hardest working labor force. With your recent announcement to make the F-150 line one of the few vehicles that Ford plans to continue to produce, we believe it is especially important to install a sense of commitment to the Claycomo employees. Additionally, we would like to offer our assistance in helping to identify creative solutions to assist your efforts to reopen plant operations in Claycomo. Understanding that this supply chain issue not only affects the greater Kansas City community, but has national economic impact, we ask that you keep us abreast of your long-term strategy to reinstate plant operations and get these hard-working employees back to work as quickly as possible. Warmest regards, Emanuel Cleaver, II Member of Congress Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
04.20.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II has been selected to receive the distinguished Harry S. Truman Good Neighbor Award, the highest honor bestowed by the Harry S. Truman Good Neighbor Award Foundation. The award will be presented in a ceremony on Friday, May 4, 2018, at the Kansas City Marriott in Kansas City, Missouri. “I do appreciate this unbelievably big-league honor even if my contributions seem minor league when compared to those who have previously received this gold-plated award,” said Congressman Cleaver. The Harry S. Truman Good Neighbor Award Foundation honors a prominent individual who has “promoted good relations among all races, nations and classes of people and who exemplifies the qualities of Harry S. Truman.” President Bill Clinton accepted the Harry S. Truman Good Neighbor Award in 2013. Former Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta received the award in 2014 for his accomplishments in the area of national defense as did Gary Sinise in 2011 for his work with disabled veterans and with Operation International Children. Cleaver grew up in Wichita Falls, TX where his father, Lucky Cleaver, still resides. As a high school junior, Cleaver led the first civil rights march in Wichita Falls when 50 students joined him in protesting segregated movie theaters in downtown Wichita Falls. Congressman Cleaver is now serving his seventh term representing Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. He has established himself as a housing and economic advocate. In addition to creating the Green Impact Zone - aimed at making a high crime area in Kansas City, the environmentally greenest piece of urban geography in the world, Cleaver successfully co-authored the Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act, a bipartisan comprehensive bill that reformed America’s housing needs. The bill passed into law with a unanimous vote. His history as the first African American Mayor of Kansas City, Missouri includes redeveloping an historic district known as the 18th & Vine Jazz Redevelopment District, and the reconstruction and beautification of Brush Creek. Cleaver has devoted his efforts to honoring and commemorating World War I. The World War I Centennial Commission was created in 2013 by legislation, sponsored by Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX). Cleaver was also the co-author of the 2014 WWI American Veterans Centennial Commemorative Coin Act. The coin was struck this past November. During the 112th Congress, Cleaver was unanimously elected the 20th chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. Cleaver has received five honorary Doctoral Degrees augmented by a bachelor’s degree from Prairie View A&M, and a Master’s from St. Paul's School of Theology of Kansas City. In a letter informing Congressman Cleaver of the honor, the Truman Foundation wrote, “In this age of incivility and tension among people of diverse religious, ethnic and racial backgrounds, your sustained efforts over the years to encourage meaningful and respectful dialogue are unparalleled. During your years on the City Council, as Mayor of Kansas City and as a Member of the United States House of Representatives, you have worked tirelessly to make common cause on such difficult issues as affordable housing, economic development, immigration, and health care.” Cleaver is married to the former Dianne Donaldson. They have made Kansas City home for themselves and their four children. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties.
04.16.2018	(Kansas City, MO) – Congratulations to the 2018 winner of the Fifth Congressional District Art Competition, Bronwynne Miller of Center High School in Kansas City, MO. Her art work, entitled “Let Me Tell You”, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. She will also receive two tickets, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a reception in Washington D.C.; a partial scholarship to Savannah College of Arts and Design in Savannah, Georgia; and a certificate for any arts class at the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art and a family membership pass. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
03.23.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II voted to increase Community Development Block Grant funding as part of the larger Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Spending bill. The measure passed the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday by a vote of 256-167. The Omnibus is backed by the White House and passed the Senate Friday morning. There were significant gains in the passage of this bill, including increases for Community Development Block Grants, (CDBG’s), which initially faced steep cuts in President Trump’s budget proposal. "Instead of strengthening communities, President Trump proposed to eliminate funding for the HOME Program and the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding. Both of these programs have played an important role in helping residents in our own community," said Congressman Cleaver. A portion of CDBG funding goes to states, but a large portion is allocated directly to cities and counties annually. In the Fifth Congressional District, the cities of Kansas City, Independence, Blue Springs, and Lee’s Summit all receive direct CDBG funds, which they use to provide decent affordable housing and expand economic opportunities for residents. "It is the largest federal block grant to state and local governments designed exclusively to create affordable housing for low-income households,” Congressman Cleaver said. Congressman Cleaver continues to work on expanding housing opportunities, especially in rural America and small towns, which, in many cases, have not seen new or improved housing units in more than a decade. The final bill also contained a $2.37 billion increase for Child Care Development Block Grants - the largestsingle-year increase in the program’s history. Congressman Cleaver was also pleased to see that the House omnibus spending bill included an increase of $2.8 billion in treatment, prevention and research programs within the Department of Health and Human Services for mental health and opioid addiction. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
03.22.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is proud to announce the approval of $7 million in funding for the U.S. World War I Centennial Commission (WWICC). The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus funding bill, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today. Along with the funding, the bill allows other federal agencies to contribute funding or personnel to support the activities of the Commission. Commemoration events are scheduled throughout the next year nationwide to educate American citizens about the causes and consequences of the “war to end all wars” and to honor the heroism and sacrifices of those Americans who served. The WWICC was created in 2013 by an Act of Congress, sponsored by Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) to honor, educate and commemorate soldiers and participants of World War I. The Centennial of the United States’ entry into World War I was commemorated on April 6, 2017 at the National World War I Museum and Memorial in Kansas City, MO. Over 4,000 people attended the ceremony, along with foreign dignitaries from 27 countries as jets from the Patrouille de France flew above. Over 4.7 million men and women served our nation in uniform and over 116,000 Americans gave their lives in defense of liberty. The funding approved by this bill will support activities and events in all 50 states over the next year. “This is tremendous news. This means WWICC can continue to do the great work of further educating and remembering what WWI means to this country,” said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver has been a long-time supporter of WWI commemoration efforts. He was the co-author of the 2014 WWI American Veterans Centennial Commemorative Coin Act. The coin was struck this past November. The National World War I Museum and Memorial is located in Kansas City, MO. Congressman Cleaver attended the ground breaking for a second national WWI memorial to be located at Pershing Park in our nation’s capital. “My thanks to Chairman Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, Subcommittee Chairman Calvert, and Subcommittee Ranking Member McCollum for hearing my appeal for WWI and working with me over the last couple of years. This was a years-long, bipartisan effort with support from Representatives Shuster (R-PA), Yoder (R-KS), Sam Graves (R-MO), and Wagner (R-MO)”, said Congressman Cleaver. “I am pleased that the bipartisan support for the Commission has continued and that we will be able to appropriately honor the centennial and the brave Americans who served in World War I.”
02.12.2018	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement regarding the deportation of Syed Jamal. “I am disappointed in the judge’s decision to deport Mr. Syed Jamal. I understand his attorneys are appealing the decision. I will continue my plans to draft a bill to show how this broken and unfair immigration system affects families, who have responsibilities and deep ties to their communities. The system is broken. We need to fix these laws that criminalize hard-working, contributing members of society like Mr. Syed Jamal and that’s what I plan to push for in Congress.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
02.08.2018	(Washington D.C.) – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) sent letters to the Bitcoin Foundation and the Chamber of Digital Commerce, calling for these entities to do more in efforts to prevent extremist groups from using cryptocurrency to fund campaigns of hate and violence. "It is clear to me that cryptocurrency technology has the opportunity to play an influential role in finance as technology evolves. However, we must be diligent in ensuring this technology is not being used to support groups that wage campaigns of hate, abuse, anti-Semitism, discrimination, or violence," said Congressman Cleaver. Following the deadly rally in Charlottesville last year, digital payment companies have worked to prevent their platforms from being utilized by hateful or violent extremists. However, many of these bad actors have started to rely on Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. It was recently reported that the head of a white nationalist movement stated that, “Bitcoin is the currency of the alt-right.” “It is not my intention to stifle this growing technological industry, but rather work with them to root out these nefarious groups. I look forward to working with the Bitcoin Foundation and the Chamber of Digital Commerce in attempts to eliminate bigoted organizations from fundraising on their platforms,” Cleaver continued. Congressman Cleaver has been an advocate for fighting discrimination in the tech industry and for greater accountability by social media platforms. In November of 2017, Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Watson Coleman wrote to the Internet Association (IA) demanding accountability from the organization. The letter can be read here. The members urged the organization to stop the spread of racial and gender bias through technology and adopt practices to hold IA members accountable when it comes to the rise of Artificial Intelligence technology and the use of potentially discriminatory algorithms. IA responded and created a new role and inclusion initiative within its organization to work on discrimination issues and diversity in the tech industry. In October of 2017, Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Watson Coleman sent a letter to Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, encouraging him to take immediate action to combat the spread of racially divisive communications and take seriously the threat of foreign entities’ use of the site to undermine American democracy. Twitter responded by stating it would enforce new policies to ban racist and violent posts from its platform. Cleaver was also among members of the Congressional Black Caucus who met with, Facebook’s COO, Sheryl Sandberg, to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the company’s system to influence the outcome of the 2016 election through the spread of racial and discriminatory messaging. Facebook responded with a series of policy changes and has since appointed its first African American to its Board of Directors. The Letter to the Chamber of Digital Commerce can be found here. The Letter to the The Bitcoin Foundation can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
02.08.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II wrote a letter to the Assistant Director of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Mr. Raymond Kovacic, encouraging him to exercise favorable discretion and grant a stay of deportation for Mr. Syed Jamal. The letter can be read here. Congressman Cleaver became involved after his Kansas City, Missouri district office was contacted by Mr. Jamal’s attorneys, his family and friends. “Although Mr. Jamal does not live in my district, I received many calls from my constituents asking for my help. I could not sit by and watch a deserving father and husband and a contributing member of this society be torn away from his family and ripped from this country. The situation became dire and Mr. Jamal had only days to be deported. There were compelling humanitarian reasons why this case should go before a judge and I believe it was my ethical and moral responsibility to speak up for him. I’m glad to see that the courts have listened and decided not to deport Mr. Syed,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. Congressman Cleaver has been an advocate for a clear and permanent pathway to citizenship and is opposed to funding for a border wall. He supports legislation such as the DREAM act and was disappointed in to President Trump’s decision to terminate the DACA program. Congressman Cleaver also wrote to President Trump regarding Syed Jamal. The letter can be read here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.24.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II was pleased to hear that Internet Association (IA) has announced it will create a new position within the organization to work on diversity and workforce policies in the tech industry. The IA is a trade association representing major technology firms like Amazon, Facebook and Google. In a letter addressed to Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), the President and CEO of IA, Michael Beckerman, stated the new Director of Diversity and Inclusion Policy will lead and coordinate a range of initiatives regarding discrimination and diversity issues. “The Internet Association has responded in a very serious and pro-active manner to our concerns that there was no one guarding the guardians when it comes to the internet and its potentially negative effects on racial and gender bias. It is critical that this position be given a high level of authority and respect such that any perceived racial and gender biases can be immediately identified and addressed,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I am pleased that the Internet Association took our concerns seriously and took swift action, although preliminary, to ensure their leadership and organization adequately represents the diversity of their consumers and the American public. As we work to combat the intricacies and severity of cybersecurity threats and the manipulation of technical platforms, it is imperative that industry leadership is held accountable for mitigating the social and ethical risks that perpetuate the spread of racial, gender and religious bias. While this is a first step in the right direction, I look forward to working with the Internet Association more to ensure that our social media and tech leaders operate responsibly on behalf of the users and communities that we represent,” said Congresswoman Watson Coleman. “It is important that the diversity of backgrounds and viewpoints among internet users is well represented in the industry generally and in our policy engagement specifically. The new Director of Diversity and Inclusion Policy will allow us to do this in a more engaged and comprehensive way,” stated Mr. Beckerman in the letter. Congressman Cleaver has been a leader in fighting discrimination in the tech industry and advocating for racial justice on social media platforms. In November of 2017, Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Watson Coleman wrote to the IA demanding accountability from the organization. The letter can be read here. The members urged the organization to stop the spread of racial and gender bias through technology and adopt practices to hold IA members accountable when it comes to the rise of Artificial Intelligence technology and the use of potentially discriminatory algorithms. Last month, Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Watson Coleman sent a letter to Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, encouraging him to take immediate action to combat the spread of racially divisive communications and take seriously the threat of foreign entities’ use of the site to undermine American democracy. Twitter responded by stating it would enforce new policies to ban racist and violent posts from its platform. Cleaver was also among members of the Congressional Black Caucus who met with, Facebook’s COO, Sheryl Sandberg, to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the company’s system to influence the outcome of the 2016 election through the spread of racial and discriminatory messaging. Facebook responded with a series of policy changes and has since appointed its first African American to its Board of Directors. “Although, there is still much work to be done, I believe this is a step in the right direction. A step up to a more inclusive workforce, reflective of our society,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.22.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II intends to vote “no” on the short term spending bill. The country cannot continue to operate on piecemeal spending legislation. The bill on the House floor today would only provide funding for the next three weeks and fails to address the domestic and military spending caps to better support hard working families and to enhance our national security. “Congress hasn’t passed a budget in years. We have been operating on short term continuing resolutions and now we are prepared to vote on a fourth one this year. I cannot, in good conscience, vote for something that I deem as irresponsible,” said Congressman Cleaver. It is imperative that Congress pass a long-term appropriations bill in addition to finding solutions to several key issues facing the country. Though this bill reauthorizes CHIP for six years, it does not provide funding for community health centers. Additionally the bill does nothing to save American’s endangered pensions – an issue that has been a priority for many in my district. DREAMers are offered no protection under this legislation and will continue to face the threat of deportation. President Trump created this crisis and has yet to calm their worries. “Businesses can’t plan their fiscal year without knowing how much to spend, or what to spend it on. Even non-profit organizations and churches can’t operate without a budget. Why does the President or Congress, for that matter, believe the government can operate in this way. It is time to stop and do the job we were elected to do,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.18.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II responded to recent reports that the Acting Director for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Mick Mulvaney, has not requested any operating funds this fiscal year from the Federal Reserve. See report here. “By requesting zero funding for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s operating costs, Mr. Mulvaney’s action represents an alarming development for American consumers, particularly minorities, seniors, and those from low-income communities who have no other avenue to protect themselves from predatory financial practices than to avail themselves to the assistance of the CFPB. Today’s letter is a clear indication that the Mr. Mulvaney’s goal is to make the CFPB “closed for business” under the Trump Administration,” said Congressman Cleaver. Congress created the CFPB in 2010 amidst the housing crisis of 2008 to protect consumers against financial abuses. The CFPB has yielded over $12 billion in consumer relief. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
01.18.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to hear that after much discussion with Facebook’s executives regarding diversity and inclusion, Facebook has announced that outgoing CEO of American Express, Kenneth Chenault, has agreed to join its Board of Directors. Facebook’s CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, made the announcement today posting this statement. Kenneth Chenault is a successful business executive and was the third African American CEO of a Fortune 500 company. “There are a significant number of qualified minorities who are more than capable to be among the leadership of major companies such as Facebook - a social medium that is used by all races, colors, and creeds. I am pleased to hear that Facebook has not only acknowledged the lack of diversity within its company but they listened to our concerns and chose a new direction for the future,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO). Last year, Congressman Cleaver, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) and Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL) sent a series of letters to Facebook’s COO, Sheryl Sandberg and Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey. The Members encouraged Facebook and Twitter to take immediate action to combat the spread of racially divisive communications on their sites. The Members also encouraged Facebook and Twitter to recognize that the company needed to do more to include minorities and women within its workforce, especially within leadership positions. “I’m pleased to see Facebook taking real action to address the issue of diversity within their company. America’s diversity is her strength and our strongest industries should reflect that fact. Kenneth Chenault is a proven leader with tremendous knowledge and experience. When we began this dialogue with Facebook, we expected swift action and this decision is without a doubt a step in the right direction,” said Congresswoman Robin Kelly. “Much work still remains to diversify Silicon Valley. Progress has been slow and we will continue to press companies to enact inclusive hiring policies. I remain committed to working with tech leadership to attain this goal.” “Kenneth Chenault’s business acumen and record of success is clear, and I am pleased he will bring that experience to Facebook. Mr. Chenault appointment demonstrates that companies like Facebook do not need to sacrifice diversity for quality at their highest and most consequential leadership ranks. As this industry takes additional steps to diversify their leadership, I strongly encourage them to look outside the box for dynamic talent and emerging leaders, not simply safe picks that have already ascended to the highest echelons of business success. Nonetheless, I do look forward to working with Mr. Chenault and the entire leadership at Facebook to address the concerns that Representatives Kelly, Cleaver and I laid out in our letter last year. We must ensure that our social media and tech leaders are operating responsibly on behalf of their users and the communities that we represent,” said Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman. Congressman Cleaver was also among those CBC members who met with Sandberg to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the company’s system to influence the outcome of the 2016 election through the spread of racial and discriminatory advertisements. He has been an advocate for racial justice and inequality within the tech industry and social media platforms. See letter regarding lack of minorities in leadership positions in the tech industry, here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.19.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II voted in opposition to the Conference Report on H.R. 1 – the GOP Tax Bill. “Today, Republicans in Congress voted to pass their tax bill which was written in secret and rushed through the House and Senate without any public hearings. This tax hike, wrapped in a bow and advertised as a gift for the American people, is a scam and middle class and poor families will pay the price. The bill will raise taxes on 86 million middle-class households and provide 83% of tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. In our state alone, Missouri will lose $500 million to $1 billion in state revenue. That impacts the quality of education our students receive, the amount of money we have to repair our roads and bridges, and on and on. In addition, because this tax bill repeals the individual mandate, it will increase health care costs for Missouri residents and cause 13 million people to lose health insurance. I’m disappointed that Republicans’ first priority is tax breaks for the wealthy and corporations, rather than reauthorizing the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), funding community health centers, passing the DREAM Act, and providing disaster relief funding.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) Fifth District of Missouri Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
12.19.2017	(Washington D.C.) – Today, Congressman Cleaver, II (D-MO) released the following statement in response to Twitter’s enforcement of its new policy seeking to curtail the amount of racist, violent, and hateful content on its wide-ranging social media platform: “I am encouraged that our calls for action have expedited Twitter’s efforts to finally reduce the hateful and violent racist rhetoric that has been plaguing the platform over the past few years. It is obvious, that Twitter is a powerful social networking platform with great potential for positivity and increasing social awareness, however, recently it has become a playground where racism and hatred have been allowed to flourish. It’s good to know Twitter’s senior leadership heard our concerns, seem to understand the gravity of these flaws in the platform, and have taken a small first step in ensuring that it will not be a part of such degradation. Make no mistake about it, we cannot sit back and allow extremists to promote hatred and violence while hiding behind a username,” said Congressman Cleaver. In October, Congressman Cleaver, along with Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), sent a letter to Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, expressing concerns regarding the social media platform’s role in “propagating hate and undermining democracy” and the company’s stagnation in acknowledging and addressing the severity of this problem. The Members requested a clear framework of how the company planned to fix the increasing hostility of foreign and domestic actors, recognizing that if the company failed to do so, increased Congressional oversight and regulation would be necessary. Cleaver and Watson Coleman were also among members of the Congressional Black Caucus who met with, Facebook COO, Sheryl Sandberg to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the companies system to influence the outcome of the 2016 election through the spread of racial and discriminatory messaging. After the meeting, Facebook also announced major changes to its platform. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
12.18.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) sent letters to the CEO’s of the four largest student loan servicers - Navient, Nelnet, Great Lakes and FedLoan Servicing - urging them to address consumercomplaints about inadequate servicing, poor record-keeping, and steering borrowers into costly repayment plans. “We write to you with deep concern over the rising rate of student loan defaults and continuous claims of fraudulent practices in lending, servicing, and collecting,” the letter states. Student loan debt has grown to over $1.3 trillion in the United States with nearly 5 million Americans currently in default as mentioned in this Wall Street Journal report. Persis Yu is an attorney and the Director of National Consumer Law Center’s Student Loan Borrower Assistance Project. "Servicers can play a critical role in helping student loan borrowers keep their loans manageable and affordable. Unfortunately, as we saw in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s lawsuit against Navient, bad servicing can be very costly for borrowers, and can even cause borrowers to default on their loans. We applaud Representative Cleaver’s efforts to ensure that servicers working for the federal taxpayer are operating in the best interest of student loan borrowers," said Director Yu. Cleaver and Jayapal are requesting that the student loan companies: • Implement an aggressive campaign to retrain staff on repayment plans and other available plans • Implement an escalated customer support pilot program to service high risk borrowers and borrowers who have rehabilitated loans • Commit to working with an independent third party to review their student borrower accounts and identify those who are delinquent and at high risk for default. Work with these borrowe • Implement call center business hours that can service borrowers coast to coast. Currently west coast borrowers are having issues reaching east coast servicers to receive timely support. Congressman Cleaver has been aggressively seeking solutions to combat the overwhelming burdens of student loans. He held a town hall in his district in Kansas City, Missouri last summer specifically geared to the topic of student loan debt. Congressman Cleaver also called on the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate the Department of Education’s student loan services and industry practices. “This is an issue that needs immediate remediation. There are too many people in the U.S. who are struggling and if we can lessen the burden with these student loans, we can help people breathe a little easier,” said Congressman Cleaver. The letters can be viewed on the following links; Navient, Nelnet, Great Lakes and FedLoan Servicing. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
12.07.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement regarding his vote on the impeachment of President Donald Trump. "Yesterday, I voted to table a resolution containing the articles of impeachment of President Donald Trump. I believe that this President has sent tasteless tweets, made crude and cruel comments, and embraced those who espouse hatred and division while pushing policies like the Trump tax cuts which benefit him and his children. However, I will not violate who I am by refusing to wait until the special counsel has completed his investigation. On the subject of impeachment, I have decided to say nothing as often as I can. After all, in the United States we believe in due process, even if the President believes that a federal judge, because of his race, cannot be fair on the federal bench. I realize that Trump’s presidency generates anger. I will remind folk that there is only one letter of the alphabet that separates anger from danger. My vote to table was an issue of fairness. The danger in prematurely impeaching the President, for me - understandably not everyone - is that my actions begin to mimic those of the President whom I rebuke for his parti pris. If articles of impeachment are introduced after Special Counsel Mueller submits his report to the House of Representatives, I will be able to stand firmly in the “well” of the House and vote with integrity, based on the material presented. On President Trump, my goal is to function from this moment forth in a manner such that when one thinks of fairness and decorum, they think of me." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
12.01.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement regarding former National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn’s, guilty plea. “The fact that General Michael Flynn admitted to lying to the FBI about his talks with Russian agents further proves that Americans cannot fully trust this administration. This ends the “no collusion” mantra that we have heard daily out of Washington. We’ve seen indictment after indictment among President Trump’s top aides and now two guilty pleas. Former Trump Campaign Aide, George Papadopoulos, admitted that he too lied to federal investigators about meetings with Russia. We do not know where this investigation will lead but it troubles me that the very person in charge of protecting our national security would lie to the FBI. This is beyond outrageous, and it begs the question, what else is the Trump administration hiding?” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
11.30.2017	(Washington D.C.) - Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) yesterday received a letter from Facebook Chief Operating Officer, Sheryl Sandberg, after a series of concerns were presented to Facebook and Twitter top executives. In the letter, Sandberg specifically stated she is responding to a series of recent letters from Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, and other Members of the CBC. “I appreciate the CBC’s commitment to asking hard questions and holding us accountable for our progress,” the letter states. “We know that African Americans have been the victims of divisive and abusive content online and we appreciate the leadership the CBC has shown in speaking out in defense of democratic values and in favor of more diversity in technology,” the letter continues. Last month, Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) sent a letter to Sandberg and Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, encouraging them to take immediate action to combat the spread of racially divisive communications and take seriously the threat of foreign entities’ use of the sites to undermine American democracy. Congressman Cleaver was also among those CBC members who met with Sandberg to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the company’s system to influence the outcome of the 2016 election through the spread of racial and discriminatory advertisements. Additionally, in a letter sent to Facebook CEO, Mark Zuckerberg last year, Congressman Cleaver joined his colleagues in addressing reports of advertisers on Facebook using multicultural affinity groups to exclude certain racial and ethnic groups when placing housing ads online. In the response letter, Sandberg stated Facebook is committed to addressing these issues, adding; “Solving these problems will not happen overnight, but we are committed to addressing and making progress on the issues raised in our meeting and in these letters." Facebook stated the company would; • Strengthen policies prohibiting discrimination in advertising • Provide more education to advertisers about their obligation not to discriminate • Prohibit the use of the multicultural affinity segments to advertise offers of housing, employment, or credit • Require advertisers running ads that offer housing, employment or credit to certify compliance with our anti-discrimination policy and with applicable law In addition to the changes on their site, Facebook recognizes that the company needs to do more to include minorities and women within the workforce, an issue that Congressman Cleaver has urged Facebook and other technology companies to prioritize when filling senior leadership positions. “Our partnerships with minority-focused organizations have helped us build relationships, and we will continue to invest in these and many other efforts as we push for greater diversity,” Sandberg stated in the letter. “I am pleased to hear that Facebook has announced changes both within the company and with its online advertisement policies. Ultimately we will see if these measures will hinder racial divisiveness and discrimination,“ said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
11.21.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined Democratic leaders from the House and Senate in sponsoring a new proposal to help pension retirees. The proposed legislation would ensure that retired workers keep the pensions they have earned. Specifically, the legislation would allow the Treasury Department to loan money through the sale of U.S. Treasury bonds to pension plans to ensure that retirees and their families are guaranteed their promised benefits. “It was time for Congress to act. Millions of pensions are at risk. I listened to thousands of retirees in my district, and across the Midwest, who were worried about their pensions being cut, some by as much as 60 percent. I believe this plan is a practical, common-sense solution that will ensure retirees continue to receive the pensions they have worked for,” said Congressman Cleaver. Pension plans – including the massive Teamsters’ Central States Pension Fund, the United Mine Workers Pension Plan, and over 200 more plans impacting workers in every state in the country – are on the brink of failure. If nothing is done, these 200 multiemployer plans are projected to fail, many within the next 10 years. The result would be economically devastating, as the retirement benefits of 1.5 million plan participants could be at risk. Congressman Cleaver has been working on behalf of retirees on this issue since 2015 when over 800 retirees began contacting his office. “In my district alone, there will be over 3,500 people affected. For the state of Missouri, an estimated 32,000 people are impacted with a total of $3 billion dollars’ worth of pensions,” said Congressman Cleaver. The proposal would: • Provide financing to put failing pension plans back on solid ground to ensure they can meet their commitments to retirees today and to workers for decades to come. • Prevent cuts to benefits retirees have already earned. • Put safeguards in place so pension plans remain strong for today's workers when they retire. In 2016, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver held a town hall meeting for retired workers who are affected by the massive cuts to the Central States Pension Fund (CSPF) and led efforts to bring the U.S. Treasury Department’s Special Master, Kenneth Feinberg, to hear their concerns about the proposed steep cuts to the Central States Pension Fund. Over 1,500 people showed up at the Downtown Convention Center in Kansas City, Missouri to share their concerns, regarding the implementation of the Kline-Miller Act. This year, Congressman Cleaver sent a letter, which can be found here, to President Donald Trump to address the crisis involving multi-employer pensions and in 2016 Congressman Cleaver sent a letter to the Department of Justice requesting a formal investigation into the management of the Central States Pension Fund to determine if there was any fraudulent or mishandling of funds. He also joined other U.S. House members in requesting a full accounting of the CSPF by the Government Accountability Office (GAO). That study is currently ongoing. “It’s time to protect the promise we made to retirees. Protect their pensions,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
11.20.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) wrote a letter to the President and CEO of the Internet Association, Michael Beckerman, urging the organization to stop the spread of racial and gender bias through technology and adopt practices and policies to hold members accountable when it comes to the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology. The letter is here. “As AI technology continues to expand and touch all areas of our lives, from social media, medicine, traffic management, airport security, retail inventory, to online lending, and education, it is imperative that policy makers carefully attempt to balance policies and regulations that mitigate social and ethical risks while providing an environment that allows for and supports innovation in industries such as yours,” the letter states. Cleaver and Watson Coleman are asking that the Internet Association respond to the following questions: • Is there a process in your association to review, test, share, and manage member datasets, algorithms or products to ensure that there is not a gender, racial, or religious bias? • Has the Internet Association implemented any best practices to limit the proliferation of discriminatory biases and/or radical ideology? • Is there a process and/or platform that can educate the public and Internet Association members on how to spot, identify and notify the group of racial or gender bias content? “We are continuing to demand answers because this issue affects so much of our daily encounters. We are constantly seeing information on our phones, tablets, and computers. We want to make sure the technology we use is working to solve, rather than magnify, our most difficult social challenges.” said Congressman Cleaver. "With an ever-evolving and advancing digital landscape - users reap great benefit from the ease and speed in which we are able to reach across the globe with the click of a mouse or the touch of a button. But we must take seriously the fact that individuals and organizations with harmful intent have that same access," said Watson Coleman. "The Internet Association and its member organizations must seek to proactively ensure that they can readily identify those bad actors and the threat they can pose, both directly and indirectly, to the livelihood of the men and women who use their platforms. As Vice Ranking Member on the House Homeland Security Committee, I have seen the harms that cyber threats pose to our security, and despite the nuanced challenges posed by online threats, we must be vigilant in our efforts to protect our homeland - digital and physical." Watson Coleman continued. Last month, Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Watson Coleman sent a letter to Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, encouraging him to take immediate action to combat the spread of racially divisive communications and take seriously the threat of foreign entities’ use of the site to undermine American democracy. Weeks later, the lawmakers were among members of the Congressional Black Caucus who met with, Facebook’s COO, Sheryl Sandberg, to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the company’s system to influence the outcome of the 2016 election through the spread of racial and discriminatory messaging. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
11.17.2017	(Kansas City, MO) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement after the passage of the tax bill. “It was truly disappointing to witness the passage of the hastily drafted House tax plan yesterday. Like many Missourians, I support efforts to simplify the federal tax code; however, I strongly oppose shifting the tax burden from corporations onto hard-working, middle-class families. This tax plan would eliminate deductions that so many families, small business owners, and seniors rely on, such as: child care deductions, student loan payments, teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses, and large medical bills due to cancer, Alzheimer’s and other illnesses. For these reasons, I voted, “No” on H.R. 1. With a 90 year-old mother-in-law and a 96 year-old father and tens of thousands of seniors in my Congressional District, I could not in good conscience vote for a tax plan that does so little for them and for working Americans. This tax bill will drive up our national debt, adding at least $1.5 trillion to the debt and triggering over $136 Billion in spending cuts, including $25 Billion from Medicare in 2018. Congress should find a bi-partisan solution that would provide tax breaks without leaving this kind of debt burden for future generations.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
11.15.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO), in support of fairness and inclusion, sent letters to several heads of major U.S. Federal Government Retirement boards urging them to interview at least one minority- or woman-owned firm when contracting for asset management opportunities. The letters can be found here. “There’s a problem here. The government is missing out on lucrative investment opportunities simply by overlooking these particular groups,” said Congressman Cleaver. A 2017 study, by the Knight Foundation, discovered that only 1.1% of the $71 trillion asset management industry are managed by women and minority owned firms. Congressman Cleaver urged federally administered retirement plans to adopt a mandate similar to the “Rooney Rule” which requires that at least one minority candidate be interviewed when screening for potential hires. The rule was developed by the National Football League in 2003 and is still in effect. Numerous corporations and organizations have since adopted this plan. “Some public plan funds that take money from women and minority employees are sending funds to firms owned exclusively by white males. A federal- level Rooney Rule would direct federal investment firms to at least consider woman-and minority-owned firms, which they have been limited in doing in the past,” said Congressman Cleaver. While a federal-level Rooney Rule would not dictate which firms will ultimately be hired, it will provide opportunities from a diverse pool and it will also help to reduce assumptions that minority- and women-owned firms are low-return investments. Studies show that diverse firms perform at or above industry norms. “Whenever federal investment managers and appointed boards are looking for asset management, I want them to look at the minority owned firms that are just as qualified and capable of handling billion dollar assets,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
11.08.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – This week, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congressman Sean Duffy (R-WI) introduced H.R. 4258, the Family Self Sufficiency Act, a bipartisan bill that would update and improve the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Family Self Sufficiency (FSS) program. “Growing up in public housing, I am well aware of how important it is that we provide residents with opportunities to become independent and self-sufficient. A program like FSS helps participants access essential supportive services - putting them on a path towards success. The program has strong support nationally and has been successful in improving outcomes in my own Congressional district,“ said Congressman Cleaver. The FSS program provides individuals receiving federal housing assistance with the opportunity to achieve career and financial goals by providing a coordinator to help with job skills, employment opportunities, and financial planning. Additionally, the program allows participants to build assets by depositing additional earnings into an escrow account. Upon successful completion of the program, the participants receive the funds to use for various job and housing needs. H.R. 4258 makes important changes to the program by combining the public housing and the housing voucher program into one – removing unnecessary burdens and making the program more efficient. The bill would also expand the scope of services that are offered to include GED training, homeownership assistance, and post-secondary education. Lastly, the bill would expand the program to include families who live in privately owned properties that are subsidized through project based rental assistance. Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Tim Scott (R-S.C) and Bob Menendez (R-N.J.) recently introduced a similar version of the bill in the Senate. “Contrary to false stereotypes, many of our constituents who depend on federal support are eager to work, go to school, and improve their ability to provide for themselves and their families. It is my hope that we can help families achieve those goals through an enhanced FSS program,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
11.02.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA) today called on the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate the Department of Education’s student loan services and industry practices. In a letter to the Comptroller General, Gene Dodaro, the Congressmen requested that the GAO examine whether the Department of Education has implemented changes to its contract incentives and customer support processes to better provide support for its student loan borrowers. The letter can be found here. Congressman Cleaver held a town hall in his district in Kansas City, Missouri in August of 2017. At that town hall, constituents discussed the rising costs of student loan debt, and the continued lack of transparency with the implementation, collection, and servicing of student loans. “Student debt affects approximately 44 million Americans who are holding about $1.3 trillion in debt. There continues to be a deluge of complaints regarding transparency in student lending,” said Congressman Cleaver. Previously, GAO looked into the Department of Education’s management of the Student Loan program, and in a report released in May of 2016, the GAO found there was a need for improved Direct Loan customer service and oversight. GAO found that the Dept. of Education lacked a minimum set of standards for call center hours for providing effective customer service, as well as key weaknesses in the management of the Direct Loan Program. Specifically, servicers are rewarded based on performance metrics in their contract. The Department of Education rewards servicers with additional loans for each loan serviced. This method of compensation does not align with the goal of superior loan servicing as desired by the Department of Education. “These finding are of great concern to us. We have requested that GAO provide an update to this review to evaluate if the Department of Education has made modifications to their Direct Loan Program,” said Congressman Cleaver. Given the critical need for transparency when taxpayer dollars are being used to help finance higher education, this review will help Congress and Department of Education to better align incentives and create the necessary changes to support borrowers. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
10.31.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressmen Emanuel Cleaver, II and Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL) applaud the news today that one of the largest private prison systems in the United States has agreed to their request to support criminal justice reform efforts. Earlier this year, Congressman Cleaver (D-MO) and Congressmen Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) sent a letter to the CEO's of Core Civic and The Geo Group, INC urging the private prison CEO’s to back national criminal justice reform efforts. In the letter, which can be found here, to CEO Damon Hininger and CEO George Zoley, the Congressmen stated, "Your organizations have often publicly said that you do not support positions that lead to enhanced incarceration, but in supporting a President who is implementing policies designed to increase the populations of individuals in both criminal and immigration detention, you are advocating for policies that deprive people of their liberty in order for you to increase your profits," "We believe this is immoral and unjust,"... Today, Core Civic responded to the letter announcing a stepped-up effort to lobby for government programs and policies to keep former inmates from returning behind bars. Core Civic listed several steps to achieve this goal on their website. Among the concrete steps, the company said it will advocate for "ban the box" policies to keep employers from asking about a job applicant's criminal history until after an initial interview. "Ban the box" policies have been put in place for state workers in 29 states. Nine states have removed the conviction history question from private employer job applications, according to the National Employment Law Project. Of the 405,000 prisoners released in 30 states in 2005, 77 percent were re-arrested within five years, and more than half returned to prison, a federal study found. Roughly 70 million Americans have an arrest or a conviction record. Other steps announced by Core Civic; • It will spend $250 million on a network of community corrections centers to help keep people out of prison. • The company said it also will lobby to protect employers who hire former inmates from negligent-hiring lawsuits; to support re-entry programs and their funding; and to support private recidivism programs in which governments only have to pay contractors if certain goals are met. “We hope our support for these policies sends a powerful message to state capitals and our nation’s capital that there is broad consensus around tackling our country’s recidivism crisis,” said Tony Grande, CoreCivic executive vice president and chief development officer. “We just wanted to put these companies on notice that the American people are watching and that profiting from incarceration has moral consequences,” Congressman Gutiérrez said. “I am pleased that Core Civic heeded our call for change. As members of large African American and Latino districts, this affects our communities greatly. Reducing the recidivism rate will not only improve our communities but will help strengthen our economy by putting people to work,” said Congressman Cleaver. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
10.27.2017	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement in response to a letter addressed to the lawmakers from Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, and the company’s decision to ban Russia Today and Sputnik from buying ads on the network as well as the Facebook announcement of the site’s new advertising transparency features: “We are encouraged that our advocacy and concern have led Twitter and Facebook to take greater responsibility for the content on their platform. While the evidence of hostile actors like Russia exploiting social media platforms to destabilize our communities has been overwhelming, the response by social media leaders up to this point has not followed suit. This attention and action by executives at Twitter and Facebook is a small step in the right direction, to reassure the public that they have grasped the severity of this issue and are taking steps, incrementally, to counter any future risks. However, more work still needs to be done by social media platforms to combat on-line violent racial incitement and to seriously improve their hiring practices when it comes to racial diversity.” Earlier this month, Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Watson Coleman sent a letter to Dorsey encouraging the CEO to take immediate action to combat manipulation of the platform spread racially divisive communications and take seriously the threat of foreign entities use of the site to undermine American democracy. Weeks later, the lawmakers, were among members of the Congressional Black Caucus to meet with, Facebook COO, Sheryl Sandberg to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the companies system to influence the outcome of the 2016 election through the spread of racial and discriminatory messaging. For more information contact: Kirsten Allen 202-510-4361 (Watson Coleman) Heather Frierson 816-842-4545 (Cleaver)
10.25.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congressman Luke Messer (R-IN) introduced The Student Loan Disclosure Modernization Act, H.R. 4119, today. This new bill would modernize the Department of Education’s (ED) “Plain Language Disclosure Form” to make it easier for students to read and understand. Currently, ED is required to disclose to student borrowers a long list of terms and conditions to help educate them about the loan obligations they are incurring. Unfortunately, these standardized forms are lengthy and difficult to understand. The “Plain Language Disclosure Form” that students are given before they take out a federal loan is typed in small print, 6 pages long, and contains over 6,000 words. The form, often laced with legal jargon, is not serving students well and should be improved. “For way too long, student borrowers have been kept in the dark, trying to understand the terms and conditions of their loans while pursuing higher education. This bill ensures that borrowers are given the right tools to make a sound financial decision before they commit to signing a student loan. This is the first clear step to providing transparency in the lending process,” said Congressman Cleaver. “This is a simple bill to make sure college students have full information about the loans they’re getting to finance their education,” Congressman Messer said. “Too often, students don’t understand the terms of their loans and don’t have a clear picture of how these loans will be paid back. Our goal with this is to empower students with information so they can make the best decisions about their education, finances and future.” Messer continued. Congressman Cleaver has been actively pursuing the issue of student loan debt. This past summer, he held a town hall in Kansas City, Missouri solely on the student loan debt crisis. An article on the town hall can be found here. Congressman Cleaver listened to the problems his constituents were facing and vowed to take those issues back to Congress for a solution. Every year millions of students take out thousands of dollars in student loans to help them pay for college. Total student loan debt exceeded credit card debt in 2010, auto loan debt in 2011, and now stands at over $1.3 trillion. Many college students are unprepared for the reality of student loan debt. According to a 2016 Consumer Report Survey, 62% of Americans with student loan debt did not attend any financial aid information sessions prior to enrolling in college. “We must ensure that people across the country are able to stay in the classroom. They should not be burdened with how they are going to survive after graduation due to overwhelming student loans,” said Congressman Cleaver. The Student Loan Disclosure Modernization Act would also require the “Plain Language Disclosure Form” be consumer tested. The bill places extra emphasis on key terms of the loan; such as the finance charges and the estimated monthly repayment. The bill also requires students to sign the form every time they take out a new loan, acknowledging that they have read the form and understand the terms of the loan. Very frequently student borrowers underestimate the amount of their loans because they may only sign one Master Promissory Note. Signing this form with each loan will improve their understanding of their debt obligations. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
10.17.2017	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II announced the initial findings of his Small Business Fintech investigation launched in June. The initial findings underscore the need to safeguard against discriminatory pricing on loan products for minority-owned small businesses. According to a Federal Reserve survey, roughly one-fifth of small businesses seek opportunities to raise capital from online lenders. Initial findings suggest that online small business loans are more likely to be utilized by minority-owned businesses. Many so-called “FinTech” lenders target these entrepreneurs with various products, including multi-year installment loans, as well as small business payday loans secured by credit card receivables. While small business loans are exempt from many of the protections afforded to consumers, these lenders are required to comply with anti-discrimination laws, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. “The initial findings are clear as day, and my investigation suggests that minority entrepreneurs are more likely to borrow from online fintech lenders,” said Congressman Cleaver. “However, we need to further understand whether lenders are aggressively targeting or offering higher interest rates relative to borrower credit risk.” “Here is the nugget of truth: Creating jobs and wealth in our country, while also reducing inequality, is impossible without fair and transparent small business lending,” he added. Congressman Cleaver launched the investigation by issuing information requests to a range of online lenders. See the announcement and the letters sent to Fintech companies here. The initial findings include: Fintech loans are more likely to be used by minority-owned businesses: Data from the information requests suggest that online small business loans are more likely to be utilized by minority-owned businesses, compared to the small business lending market more broadly. While respondents noted that data on race was not specifically collected in the application process, some firms conducted backwards-looking economic analysis to estimate the racial makeup of their borrowers. Consumer credit reports used for small business loan underwriting: The investigation determined that the industry is utilizing a borrower’s consumer credit report, even though the product is a small business loan. The information requests suggest that the consumer’s credit report can help to verify the borrower’s identity, as well as offering additional information about their ability to repay. Limited adoption of safeguards against discriminatory pricing: While some respondents engage in fair lending analysis to guard against algorithmic bias against minorities and other protected classes, some respondents did not offer any detail on how they guard against discriminatory pricing. Rely on forced arbitration provisions: Respondents noted that they include provisions in loan contracts that forbid borrowers from taking the lender to court in cases where the lender may have broken the law. Third-Party Verification: Some respondents reported the utilization of third-party assessment firms to determine if their lending or underwriting practices were fair and transparent. Congressman Cleaver will continue to seek further information from respondents that withheld key information from the investigation. Additionally, he will seek to better understand how borrowers are treated in times of distress, to include whether lenders offer loan modification or simply pursue borrowers in litigation. Congressman Cleaver will continue to advocate for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s oversight of this industry, including the completion of the small business data collection rulemaking, that will help law enforcement deter and detect small business lending discrimination. “I will also urge the U.S. Department of Treasury to provide guidance to Fintech firms on how they can use better practices to promote investment in lending to diverse communities,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
10.13.2017	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II calls the latest cuts on health care subsidies a mistake that will affect millions of low to moderate-income Americans. Recent media reports state that the White House administration has decided it will not continue to pay the monthly cost-sharing subsidies to insurance companies included in the Affordable Care Act, (ACA) worth an estimated $7 billion in 2017. “This was a well-planned but contemptable move, days before open enrollment is set to begin, to further incapacitate what some opponents call “Obamacare”,” said Congressman Cleaver. The ACA requires that the federal government reimburse insurance companies for providing eligible low- and moderate-income people lower deductibles and out of pocket costs for health care. “What President Trump fails to realize is that the decision was not his to make alone. He should work with Congress to find a bipartisan solution. These payments actually help individuals and families who earn less than 250% of the poverty level, that’s equivalent to a family of four earning about $60,000 a year. That’s a significant portion of working families in my district,” said Congressman Cleaver. There are 25,000 people enrolled in the ACA marketplace here in the Fifth District of Missouri; 12,500 of those enrollees are eligible for cost-sharing reductions. On average, cost-sharing reductions reduce people’s out-of-pocket costs by roughly $1,000 per person. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has already determined that not paying these subsidies will increase premiums, especially in those states that have not expanded Medicaid, including Missouri. CBO also estimates that insurers will withdraw from the markets and the number of uninsured will rise by 1 million people next year. “If insurance companies know that they won’t be compensated for providing cost-sharing reductions, then they will likely leave the marketplace. This is another attempt to sabotage the ACA at the expense of the health care of the working poor and middle-income Americans who make up a large percentage of those who voted for Trump," said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
10.12.2017	(Washington D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II spoke before the full Financial Services Committee hearing this morning on Capitol Hill. U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development Secretary, Ben Carson appeared before the committee to discuss public housing needs. The hearing was entitled “The Future of Housing in America: Oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development”. Congressman Cleaver shared his childhood story with Sec. Carson, see the video clip here. “I was happy to share my story today of growing up in a shack in Waxahachie, Texas. I just hope people will be more understanding and empathetic towards HUD and the people who need help,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
10.12.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement today regarding President Donald Trump’s signed executive order on health care. “Instead of working with Congress to determine what’s best for Americans and their health care, the President has decided to force his political agenda on the American people. There is a reason why the GOP effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA) has failed time and time again. The President wants to blame Democrats but the truth is, the proposed health care changes will hurt millions, regardless of their party affiliation. These changes are designed to allow loopholes around ACA core requirements, such as the coverage of essential health benefits. Associations that band together to buy insurance will be exempt from having to cover certain prescription drug benefits, maternity care, or mental health services. The executive order will allow insurance companies to offer skimpy, short-term plans that don’t actually provide good coverage. This will attract the young and healthy customers at the expense of older or sicker individuals and their families, and will destabilize the insurance markets. The American people have spoken – more than once – and they want Congress to work together to find ways to improve upon the ACA, not continue to roll back patient protections.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II Missouri’s Fifth District Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
10.04.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – On October 3, 2017, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) sent a letter to Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, expressing their concerns with the social networking platform’s role in ‘propagating hate and undermining democracy’ and company leadership’s inaction to address the gravity of these issues. The lawmakers called on the CEO to clearly outline how they will, in the future, combat the manipulation of the platform by domestic and foreign entities, citing a failure to do so will force increased oversight and regulation of the industry. Full text of the letter can be found here. Additional excerpts are below: Fanning the flames of racism & undermining Democracy “While we acknowledge that Twitter can be a powerful tool to bring about positive information sharing, we are exceptionally concerned that Twitter is also being used as an avenue to spread racism and bigotry. As a result of the far-reaching nature of Twitter’s technology, we have seen an effort to undermine our democracy, create or fan flames of racial divisions, and spread hate speech that can ultimately cumulate into violence.” Federal Oversight of the Industry “..we are concerned that insufficient government oversight over your firm is inadvertently leading to deeper racial divisions and threats to our democracy. If Twitter continues to prove unable or hesitant to grasp the seriousness of this threat and combat the racialized climate that is being stimulated on your platforms, we, as Members of Congress, will be left with little option but to demand for increased regulations and government oversight of this industry to address these problems.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
10.02.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement in regards to the mass shooting that took place last night in Las Vegas, Nevada. “This latest incomprehensible act of mass murder has once again shaken this country to its core. My thoughts go out to the families, friends, and, most importantly, the victims of this abominable attack. Today, we all grieve with Las Vegas. I want to convey sincere gratitude for all the Americans who stepped up in the face of this tragedy – from law enforcement, to the emergency responders, to the citizens volunteering their help and services.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II Missouri’s Fifth District Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
09.27.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined 144 Members of Congress in signing a letter to President Donald Trump urging him to provide additional assets to those suffering from the aftermaths of a devastating hurricane. Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands were directly hit by Hurricane Maria resulting in several days of widespread power outages and reduced telecommunications. “We know there are DOD (Department of Defense) elements helping today, and all the service members involved are working very hard, but we are concerned that the scale of DOD assets supporting the operation are inadequate. Thus, we write to urge you to further mobilize the Department of Defense to immediately deploy additional resources in support of Puerto Rican and U.S. Virgin Island recovery efforts,” the letter read. Congressman Cleaver has been advocating for Congress to pass an aid package to assist Puerto Rico. “American lives depend on it,” said Congressman Cleaver. “It’s time to stop with the distractions and concentrate on our fellow citizens. Start working to aid Puerto Rico now,” he continued. Residents are in desperate need of more water, food, medicine and fuel. The letter states that there are numerous municipalities in Puerto Rico that are inaccessible from the ground, which is where DOD engineer and aviation assets would be most helpful. “With millions of U.S. citizens stranded in remote areas without basic necessities, engineers are needed first to clear the roads,” the letter states. Full text of the letter can be found below. September 27, 2017 President Donald J. Trump 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: On September 20th, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands endured a direct impact from Hurricane Maria. With winds up to 160 mph, Hurricane Maria devastated these islands, caused significant power outages, destroyed telecommunications infrastructure, and thereby paralyzed region. Given the impact of the damage and the population of 3.6 million American citizens affected, we are concerned that federal efforts to date have been insufficient to address the severity of the situation. We know there are DOD elements helping today, and all the service members involved are working very hard, but we are concerned that the scale of DOD assets supporting the operation are inadequate. Thus, we write to urge you to further mobilize the Department of Defense to immediately deploy additional assets in support of Puerto Rican and U.S. Virgin Island recovery efforts. As you know, the Department of Defense has additional capabilities that could help alleviate suffering in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and prevent this catastrophe from worsening. First and foremost, a senior general officer must be appointed to work with FEMA to manage a joint response assist with the recovery effort on the ground, and enable local constituencies to have a single point of contact. This was done in response to Hurricane Katrina, and we feel the same approach is warranted now for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. As we are sure you are aware, in Puerto Rico, there are numerous municipalities that are inaccessible from the ground, which is where DOD engineer and aviation assets would be most helpful. With millions of U.S. citizens stranded in remote areas without basic necessities, engineers are needed first to clear the roads. Additional aviation assets are needed to get relief supplies to isolated locations. Additionally, substantial ground and air logistics support is required to get aid to the island, rescue stranded citizens, and provide them with supplies and thereafter assist with the restoration of power and telecommunications infrastructure if needed. To fulfill DOD’s mission, we believe the aircraft carrier, USS Abraham Lincoln, should be sent to Puerto Rico, similar to its deployment to Miami following Hurricane Irma. DHS has indicated it has “provided more than 1.5 million meals, 1.1 million liters of water, nearly 300 infant and toddler kits, and nearly 12,000 emergency roofing kits to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico since Hurricane Maria’s landfall.” While these meals and resources are profoundly needed, unfortunately, there is a large portion of the population that has been underserved. Lastly, the Department has critical resources that could assist with addressing security issues. We have heard reports that the ongoing supply shortages are causing looting and crime. We were recently informed of armed gangs ransacking a warehouse that distributes food and supplies. Defense Department personnel could provide essential support to local law enforcement in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands to ensure relief supplies are delivered to those most in need– and that those that have already been immensely devastated by the hurricane, do not need to fear for their lives when filling up their gas at the pump or securing food for their family. We thank you for your immediate attention to this matter. Please feel free to contact our staffs with any questions. We look forward to your timely response. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
09.22.2017	(Washington D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II highlighted a new report which shows how the latest Trumpcare legislation, which the Senate GOP hopes to rush to a vote next week, would rob insurance coverage from 534,000 Missourians in 2027. “Republicans are trying to force the devastation of Trumpcare on Americans once more, stealing billions of dollars from funds that keep health care affordable for Missouri’s families,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Trumpcare will devastate some of our most vulnerable citizens; veterans, seniors, women, working families, people with pre-existing conditions and rural communities,” he continued. The extreme version of Trumpcare, now the proposed Graham-Cassidy bill, introduced by Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Bill Cassidy (R-LA), would rip away the promise of affordable quality health care in America. The bill: • Slashes Medicaid funding – Graham-Cassidy guts Medicaid by $236 billion between 2020-2026 by limiting the amount of funding states receive. • Requires States to Start Over & Build State Health Systems from the bottom up – States will have to decide and develop plans on how they will use block grants by 2020 before they can receive the money. If they don’t make that deadline, it could throw the marketplace and consumers into chaos. • Provides Higher Costs, Less Coverage – This new Trumpcare bill forces families to pay much higher out-of-pocket health care costs, including deductibles. Trumpcare will take away some or all health care from tens of millions of hard-working Americans. • Guts Key Protections –The bill guts key protections for people with pre-existing conditions and essential health benefits, and reinstates lifetime and annual limits on care. • Allows Crushing Age Tax – Graham-Cassidy exposes older Americans to higher premiums than what others pay for health coverage, no matter how healthy they are. Virtually the entire health care industry has expressed opposition to the Graham-Cassidy bill, including: the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American College of Physicians, the American Hospital Association, the Children’s Hospital Association, the Catholic Health Association of the United States, America’s Health Insurance Plans, the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. The AARP found that older people could pay as much as $16,174 more per year for health coverage under this bill. A 60-year-old making $25,000 per year would have to pay as much as $16,174 due to the elimination of the current subsidies which help people afford their premiums and out of pocket costs. The Graham-Cassidy bill has not been fully evaluated by the Congressional Budget Office and has not been subject to hearings in the House or Senate. “I will fight against the staggering costs and devastating effects of this bill just as I did before. There’s an old saying that applies here pertaining to the true definition of insanity, we can’t repeat the same actions and expect a new result. What would that make us?” said Congressman Cleaver. “Rather than attempting to pass another version of Trumpcare, Congress should continue the bipartisan work to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
09.15.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce that the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) has awarded a grant of $1,882,260 for the expansion of the Missouri State Veterans Cemetery in Higginsville, MO. “This is welcoming news for families of our fallen soldiers in the Fifth District of Missouri. They will have the opportunity to visit and honor their loved ones in an enhanced and newly renovated cemetery,” said Congressman Cleaver. The next closest national cemetery is VA’s Leavenworth National Cemetery in Leavenworth, Kansas, 91 miles away. The next closest state cemetery is Missouri State Veterans Cemetery-Jacksonvlle in Jacksonville, Missouri, 104 miles away. “We are very grateful to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and our elected officials for their assistance in funding for an additional columbarium wall. This partnership allows us to continue to honor Missouri’s Veterans in perpetuity,” said Larry Kay, Executive Director Missouri Veterans Commission. "We are proud to work with the state of Missouri to expand their Veterans cemetery and continue to provide cemetery expansions where Veterans live," said Ronald E. Walters, Acting Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs. The grant funds the construction of 1,280 columbarium niches, roadways, landscaping, and supportive infrastructure. The project covers two acres and provides expanded service to 19,000 Veterans and their families. The existing cemetery is two miles northwest of the town center on East Highway 13, on 52 acres. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
09.05.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II denounces President Trump’s decision today to terminate the Deferred Action For Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and reaffirms his commitment to protecting our country’s Dreamers. Today, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the administration will end DACA with a six month delay. “DACA allowed determined and hopeful youth to come out of the shadows and into the light. These children trusted their government to take care of them which is why they came forward. Now, this administration is turning their backs on them and I will not turn my back on them,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. In Missouri, DACA has allowed more than 3,500 young people to come forward. They passed background checks and currently live and work legally in this country. A recent survey found that after receiving DACA, recipients moved to jobs with better pay that matched their education and training. Ending DACA would cost Missouri more than $209 million in annual GDP losses according to a report from the Washington: Center for American Progress, 2017. Since the program was established in 2012, over 800 thousand young people have come forward who were granted temporary protection from deportation. “There simply is no reason for this immoral decision. DACA recipients have grown up in this country, have attended school in this country, and defend and work hard for this country. It is up to us in Congress now to work together to protect the Dreamers and allow them to stay here with their families,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
09.01.2017	(Kansas City, MO) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement in regards to President Trump’s plans to effectively end the DACA, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, program. “Because I am an ordained United Methodist clergy, I cannot resist saying that Ezekiel 18 is clear, each individual is responsible for his/her own sins. Listen to the text: Ezekiel 18:19 “The child will not be punished for the parent’s sins, and the parent will not be punished for the child’s sins. Righteous people will be rewarded for their own righteous behavior, and wicked people will be punished for their own wickedness.” Who are we to punish young Americans for their parents’ decision? Come on, opponents of that which is right, get with it or get out of the way!” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
08.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, ahead of President Trump's speech in Missouri outlining Republicans’ plan to give tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY)) joined Not One Penny and Indivisible on a press call to discuss the Republican giveaways to the wealthy and well-connected. Speakers today called on President Trump to introduce a tax plan that doesn’t include tax giveaways to the wealthy and well-connected. “This is reverse Robin Hood-ism at its best,” said Congressman Emmanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO). “I think that the Missouri voters need to be aware of the trick that they’re trying to play on us that somehow this is going to be some kind of an equitable cut in taxes for working people as well the wealthy.” “We believe that tax reform shouldn’t increase the tax burden on the middle class, and there should not be a tax cut for the wealthiest one percent of Americans, period," said Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer. "Not one penny of tax cuts should go to that top one percent.” “If the President wants to use populism to sell his tax plan, he ought to consider actually putting his money where his mouth is, and putting forward a plan that puts the middle class, not the top 1%, first,” Schumer continued. “Rather than pushing a plan that puts social security and Medicare at risk in order to give a huge tax break to the millionaires and billionaires, I hope the President will discuss a plan that can earn bipartisan support.” "Trump is selling a scam that’s light on details and won’t deliver on the promises he’s making," said Chad Bolt, Policy Manager for Indivisible Guide. "It is patently absurd to say the Trump tax scam “unrigs the economy” -- it only further rigs the economy for the wealthy and corporations, and even Trump himself." “The problem with the President’ claim that his tax plan will help regular Americans is that the math just doesn’t add up. Tax cuts for wealthy corporations are not going to help regular Americans whose wages have stagnated,” said Michael Linden, Fellow at the Roosevelt Institute. “Millionaires will take home more than $200,000 a year from Trump’s plan." Congressman Cleaver is committed to ensuring that the working middle-class and the working poor are not ignored in the discussion of tax reform. “These are the people who need the tax breaks the most, not the wealthiest among us who will be just fine,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
08.16.2017	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement upon watching President Trump’s press conference wherein the President of the United States defended hate groups responsible for violent clashes in Charlottesville, Virginia over the weekend. “Lordy, lordy. I now believe that the President's natural inclination is to make matters worse. He ran a White House that had become a mess, but he has magnificently and proudly turned it into a Mess Hall. Equating the Klan and the Nazis with civil rights organizations and those whose very existence is based on destroying huge segments of the American population is a maze from which escape might prove nigh impossible. Anyone who justifies this behavior needs to fill out an application to work in the West Wing.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II Missouri’s 5th District Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
07.31.2017	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II will hold a town hall on the growing crisis of student loan debt, Wednesday, August 2, 2017 from 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. The town hall will be held at Metropolitan Community College-Penn Valley, Education Center, Room 19, 3201 Southwest Trafficway, Kansas City, MO. Congressman Cleaver has voiced his concerns regarding student loan debt and the difficulty of repayment for many Americans. On Wednesday, he will hear from the students, recent graduates, parents, and all those affected by student loans. “We must ensure that young people and students across America are able to stay in the classroom. They should not be burdened with how they are going to survive after graduating due to overwhelming student loans,” said Congressman Cleaver. Those attending are encouraged to share their stories and experiences with the Congressman at the town hall. What: Student Loan Town Hall When: Wednesday, August 2, 2017 6:30 – 8:00 p.m. Where: Metropolitan Community College-Penn Valley, Education Center, Room 19, 3201 Southwest Trafficway, Kansas City, MO, 64111 For more information about this press release, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.28.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II introduced H.R. 3552, the “Cady Housh and Jason Flatt Teen Suicide Prevention Act.” This bill, co-sponsored by Congressman Kevin Yoder (KS-03), would require teachers, principals, counselors and other school officials to receive youth suicide awareness and prevention training in schools. Suicide has been the second leading cause of death for young people ages 10-24 since 2010. Eighty percent of students show warning signs before attempting suicide. “Suicide prevention training should be a requirement for anyone working with children. This training will save lives. We want to make it school policy that school leaders, counselors, teachers, and other staff complete at least one hour of youth suicide awareness and prevention training on an annual basis,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Far too many families struggle with the pain and loss experienced by the Housh family,” said Congressman Yoder. “Suicide is the second leading cause of death for kids from middle school through college – it’s an epidemic – and we’re working to arm teachers and administrators in our schools across America with the tools to help prevent these tragedies.” Cady Housh of Olathe, Kansas was 16 years old when she died by suicide, just two days after her best friend and soccer teammate, Ciara Webb, also died by suicide. Cady’s mother, who lives in Independence, Missouri contacted her Congressman, Emanuel Cleaver, II, requesting federal legislation for suicide awareness and training. The Jason Flatt Act was passed in Tennessee in 2007 and made suicide prevention training mandatory for educators in that state. So far, 19 states have adopted the Jason Flatt Act. Jason was 16 years old when he died by suicide. His father, Clark Flatt, embarked on a nationwide commitment to ending what he calls the “silent epidemic”, by advocating that all 50 states adopt the Jason Flatt Act policy. Kansas adopted the legislation in 2016, and Missouri adopted legislation last year allowing educators the opportunity to take training and requiring school districts to develop strategies to identify at-risk students. “Our goal with The Jason Flatt Act is not to make teachers into counselors, but rather equip them with information, tools and resources to help better identify and assist at-risk youth for suicide. Bottom line, lives will be saved,” said Clark Flatt, President of The Jason Foundation. According to the Center for Disease Control (CDC), in 2015 an estimated 17.7 percent of students in grades 9-12 seriously considered attempting suicide in the last year. Almost 15 percent made a plan about how they would attempt suicide, and 8.6 percent attempted suicide one or more times. “It is imperative that when our youth turn to educators for assistance, teachers have the necessary training and resources to respond, “ said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver’s bill would institute a uniform, nationwide standard that would incorporate youth suicide awareness and prevention training into each school district. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at heather.frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.19.2017	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II will speak at the national Third Way Diverse Democrats Press Breakfast today in Washington, D.C. Congressman Cleaver along with Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-WA), have been invited by Third Way to discuss the importance of forging a path to reaching crucial voters within the Democratic Party. Congressman Cleaver is going to speak to the importance of Democrats crafting an overall message that speaks to the majority of Americans not just pockets of Americans. He will highlight up to “ten ideas we can all get behind” that are specific to the economy. For example, $15 minimum wage, Student Debt Reform, Universal Pre-K, and a Transportation and Infrastructure plan -- are just a few of the ideas that he will highlight. Third Way is a public policy and advocacy organization whose mission is to create and promote transformational centrist ideas. The event is entitled, "Third Way Diverse Democrats”. "I am humbled to participate in this important discussion with such a distinguished panel. This is the discussion we need in order to overcome our mistakes in the past and move forward with a new vision for the Democratic Party. I look forward to learning new ideas and sharing some of my own," said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver represents a unique district within the Fifth District of Missouri. "I have often said that every Member of Congress should have a district like mine. Contrary to popular belief, I do not solely represent a heavily minority populated district. I represent nearly 40 rural towns and cities in three separate rural counties, Ray, Lafayette and Saline Counties in addition to urban areas in Jackson and Clay Counties in Missouri. It is important to reach a wide range of voters, not just the expected few," said Congressman Cleaver. When: Wednesday, July 19, 2017; 9:00 a.m. EST Where: District Architecture Center, 421 7th Street NW, Washington, D.C. Who: Third Way Guests; Invited Members of the Press & Media; Third Way Vice President, Lanae Erickson Hatalsky (moderator); Distinguished Panel What: Discussion on how Democrats can forge a broad path to victory in diverse areas of the country. Watch the live stream of the event at https://www.thirdway.org/events/diverse-democrats-what-it-takes-to-win. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.29.2017	(Washington D.C.) - Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is proud to announce the authorization of funding for the World War I Centennial Commission in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Last evening, Congressmen Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Sam Graves (R-MO), in coordination with Congressman Cleaver, successfully offered an amendment in the House Armed Services Committee that would give the military the authority to transfer up to $5 million in funding to support activities to commemorate the centennial of the United States’ entry into World War I. The World War I Centennial Commission was created by an act of Congress in 2013, sponsored by Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX). The Centennial kicked off on April 6, 2017 at the National World War I Museum and Memorial in Kansas City, MO. Foreign dignitaries from 27 countries attended the event as jets from the Patrouille de France flew above. Commemoration events are scheduled to continue nationwide throughout the year to educate American citizens about the causes and consequences of the War to End All Wars and to honor the heroism and sacrifice of those Americans who served. “I’d like to thank both Congressmen Shuster and Graves for their efforts to ensure that those who fought for our country will not be forgotten,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I am extremely pleased that this amendment was included in the National Defense Authorization Act. The heroes who fought and died on the battlefields of World War I gave themselves for something greater than themselves, and with this legislation, we can continue to educate the public and honor their sacrifice for our country. Thank you to Representative Cleaver for helping bring attention to this issue and our veterans,” said Congressman Shuster (R-PA). “Since the inception of the World War I Centennial Commission, Kansas City has been committed to acknowledging and commemorating the sacrifices of the more than 4 million men and women from the United States who served in uniform in WWI,” said Congressman Sam Graves (R-MO). “North Missouri was home to thousands of men and women who served their country in this global campaign for freedom and democracy. I commend Congressman Cleaver for his work to provide for the Centennial Commission, and I look forward to working to guarantee the Commission can continue bringing awareness and meaning to the Great War through educational experiences and programs across the country.” The NDAA will soon be considered by the full House of Representatives. “I am pleased with the bipartisan collaboration that has led not only to the creation of the WWI Commission, but for funding to honor the centennial and the brave Americans who served our Nation,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.26.2017	(Washington D.C.) - Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) led by Chairman Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Representatives G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), and Barbara Lee (D-CA), in sending a letter to Uber, calling on the ride-share service company and other technology companies to prioritize diversity when filling senior leadership positions. “When the Congressional Black Caucus Diversity Task Force launched CBC TECH 2020 in May 2015, we cautioned leaders in the tech community that its lack of African American inclusion was bad for business and for the country,” the Members wrote. “It seems that Uber, and many of its peers in the industry, have not prioritized the urgent need for a diverse and inclusive workforce,” they continued. Reps. Cleaver, Butterfield, and Lee are members of the CBC Diversity Task Force, which previously sent a letter to the CEOs of Uber and Lyft, outlining concerns following a report from the National Bureau of Economic Research that documented evidence of discrimination against African American customers attempting to use ride-share services as a means of transportation. Full text of the letter sent today can be found here. In addition to ensuring equality for minorities, Congressman Cleaver recently initiated an investigation into small business FinTech lending companies. In recent years, the small business lending market has seen a number of new entrants primarily operating online. Without proper supervision and oversight, Congressman Cleaver believes certain FinTech companies may be taking advantage of or discriminating against hardworking individuals from communities of color. “FinTech companies geared toward lending to small businesses by using certain biased algorithms for creditworthiness have the potential of charging disproportionately higher rates to minority-owned businesses,” said Congressman Cleaver. In a letter from Congressman Cleaver to the Chief Executive Officers of several rapidly emerging FinTech small business lenders, the executives were asked to share information about their company products, fees, and methods when it comes to disclosures and potentially discriminatory practices. The letters, which are highlighted by the title of company, were sent to Lending Club, Biz2Credit, Fora Financial, Prosper, and Lend Up. Companies are expected to respond by August 10, 2017. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.23.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, U.S. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II launched an investigation into small business FinTech lending, including online companies that offer payday loan-like products for small businesses and individual consumers. In recent years, the small business lending market has seen a number of new entrants primarily operating online. Many of these entrants offer “merchant cash advances,” which are loans given to small businesses in exchange for a percentage of their future credit card sales receivables. “FinTech lending companies, also known as alternative small-business lending, are a fast-growing industry offering a new wave of innovation—and also pose many new risks,” said Congressman Cleaver. In a letter from Congressman Cleaver to the Chief Executive Officers of several rapidly emerging FinTech small business lenders, the executives were asked to share information about their company products, fees, and methods when it comes to disclosures and potentially discriminatory practices. The letters were sent to Lending Club, Biz2Credit, Fora Financial, Prosper, and *Lend Up. Companies are expected to respond by August 10, 2017. Unlike consumer credit products, small business borrowers are typically not protected by disclosure requirements under the Truth in Lending Act. While FinTech lenders are required to comply with anti-discrimination laws like the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, these lenders are not subjected to supervisory exams like those required for community banks and credit unions. Without proper supervision and oversight, Congressman Cleaver believes certain FinTech companies may be taking advantage of or discriminating against hardworking individuals from communities of color. “FinTech companies geared toward lending to small businesses by using certain biased algorithms for creditworthiness have the potential of charging disproportionately higher rates to minority-owned businesses,” said Congressman Cleaver. “It is therefore important to determine if minority-owned small businesses are being charged higher rates, or if they have been subject to predatory fees by these FinTech firms.” On March 15, 2017, Congressman Cleaver wrote a letter to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau urging the agency to investigate the evolving sector. He requested the agency provide information about its small business data collection rulemaking that would help to eliminate discriminatory practices. Congressman Cleaver will continue to collect information about FinTech small business lending as part of a broader effort to ensure economic growth and fairness in the marketplace. *Lend Up is an online consumer lending company but agreed to take part in this investigation. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement upon hearing the news that President Trump has decided to rollback key elements of the current Cuban policies with the United States. “President Trump’s decision to reverse reformed policies with Cuba sets the United States back decades. From my experience, Cuba has been eager to do business with the United States. Cuba imports about 60-80 percent of its food, and Missouri farmers should have the opportunity to fill some of that demand. Missouri is a top producer of pork, corn, soybeans and rice, and total exports to Cuba could represent $1.4 billion annually for U.S. agriculture. The U.S. agriculture industry is not the only sector that would benefit from increased trade with Cuba. The energy sector, healthcare, as well as telecommunications and technology could all benefit from better relations with Cuba. Ultimately, Americans understand how important trade and diplomacy are for our national security and a thriving, innovating economy. I wish President Trump understood that as well.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II Missouri’s 5th District Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.14.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Statement from Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II regarding this morning's shooting incident at the congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, Virginia. "No matter your political affiliation or viewpoint, violence is never the answer to our differences. My prayers are with the families of Congressman Steve Scalise, Rep. Roger William's aide, and our two brave Capitol police officers. I am grateful for the women and men of the Capitol police, the Alexandria police, and other law enforcement who protect us daily." Congressman Cleaver was working this morning in Washington D.C. and is safe. All members and staff are being cautious of their surroundings this morning as security has been upgraded on Capitol Hill. All of the Congressman’s offices will be open for regular business.
06.12.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce that funding has been provided by the U.S. Army Corps’ Fiscal Year 2017 work plan to complete the Blue River Basin/Dodson Levee and the Turkey Creek Basin projects in the Kansas City area. “This is great news. This was a long standing effort and I’m pleased to help with funding to see these projects reach the finish line,” said Congressman Cleaver. These two projects were included as target areas in Kansas City for significant improvements. Last year, Congress passed the 2016 Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) which authorized water development projects to be carried out by the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers and it also authorized funding to address the Flint, Michigan water crisis. Congressman Cleaver along with Congressman Sam Graves and Kansas City’s Mayor, Sly James advocated for the inclusion of these projects in the WRDA bill. "These projects are critical for protecting Kansas City businesses and families against the devastation of flooding and needed reauthorization by Congress before they could be completed.” The Army Corps announced that $17,030,000 would be used to complete the Blue River Basin/Dodson Industrial District Project. Phases 1-4 of the project are complete and this funding amount will complete the final phase. This project includes a 6,800 ft. levee floodwall along the north bank of the Blue River, protecting the 1,500 people who work in the area and over $380 million in property investment. The Turkey Creek Basin Flood Project, in Missouri and Kansas, will receive $21,529,000 to complete the project. This project widened the channel, relocated bridges and included tunnel modifications. Turkey creek flows 15 miles through Kansas City metro, and its frequent flooding poses serious risks to residential and commercial areas. This project will provide over $5 million in annual benefits to the protected and surrounding areas. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.08.2017	(Washington D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement regarding the testimony of former FBI Director, James Comey today before the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. “The fact that this is where we are in this country is already troubling. Like many others, I listened to James Comey testify in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee today. Mr. Comey said that some of his conversations with President Trump were “very concerning and very disturbing”. It should be disturbing to all of us. I agree with Mr. Comey that justice should be blind. In seeking truth, loyalty should remain with the American people and not to a single leader of a nation. There’s still a shroud of secrecy and corruption stemming from the fact that the Russians interfered with our national election process and the Administration’s reaction. Make no mistake about it; we will get to the bottom of this in Congress.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.01.2017	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement regarding President Trump’s decision to leave the Paris Climate Agreement. “A withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement is short-sighted and a dangerous nod to the National Flat Earth Agency and others who refuse to accept the science that has been embraced by every nation on the planet except war-torn Syria and dictator-driven Nicaragua. Staying in the Paris Climate Agreement is an opportunity for the U.S. to reaffirm its global leadership and the best way to hold India, China, and other nations accountable on taking real actions to combat pollution. Regardless of what President Trump does, American cities, states, and businesses are embracing real climate solutions and providing new U.S. innovations and jobs. Pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement will not stop the global momentum towards a clean energy economy, it will only put America at an economic disadvantage. The U.S. would be leaving the 200 other nations in the Agreement to join the only two countries in the world who have not signed – Syria and Nicaragua. This is not the diplomatic, economic, or moral position we want. Tragically, this presidential decision is an act of inexperienced ignorance.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, (MO-05) Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.24.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement after reports that Blue Cross Blue Shield of Missouri will pull out of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2018. "The news that Blue Cross Blue Shield Insurance will exit from the ACA's Marketplace in Missouri next year is devastating and should be a wake-up call to Congress. This means that thousands of Missourians will be without health care next year if their employer doesn't provide it. What choices will they have if the largest insurance provider pulls out? Trumpcare is not the answer. Congress must come together to improve the ACA, not start again from zero with a plan that would harm so many Americans." -U.S. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.23.2017	(Washington D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is deeply troubled by President Trump’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposal. The budget calls for a harmful reduction in programs that help every day, working families. It would gut safety net programs that serve many of our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. The proposal cuts taxes for the wealthy while cutting crucial housing, education, and health care services. “The $3.6 trillion dollars in cuts are the steepest proposed by any U.S. president. These programs, that help our poorest Americans, were put in place for a reason. President Trump helps the wealthiest among us by providing a tax cut for them and then wipes out programs that feed children and help the elderly,” said Congressman Cleaver. President Trump proposes to cut SNAP, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program by almost one-third. This federal nutrition program helps families stretch their food budget, helping 44 million Americans last year. In previous years in Missouri, over 844,000 people were helped each month by SNAP. In the Fifth District of Missouri alone, 25,000 households receive SNAP benefits. Cuts to this program would leave children in our community hungry and without assistance. The budget also proposes funding cuts to the Meals on Wheels program. The President’s budget would decimate Medicaid, which provides health care for mothers with children and many people in nursing homes. Over 10 years, Medicaid funding would be slashed by more than $800 billion. Additionally, the budget cuts vital funding for Social Security Disability Insurance benefits. Instead of strengthening communities, President Trump proposes to eliminate funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program(LIHEAP) and the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program. Both of these programs have played an important role in helping residents in our own community. “This is a budget I cannot support and will do everything in my power to see that Americans aren’t further harmed by this proposal,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.17.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II wrote a letter to the U.S. Deputy Attorney General, Rod Rosenstein, requesting an independent prosecutor be appointed immediately to investigate allegations of President Trump’s ties to Russia. “Any interference in our election process, or any cyber threat to our nation, is a grave menace to our democracy. We need a complete accounting of what happened, how it occurred, whether any Americans were involved, and how further interference in our elections can be prevented,” wrote Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver stated in the letter, to wait on this matter would diminish the trust of the American people and continue to undermine the Department of Justice. President Trump’s most recent actions show his abuse of power in firing qualified officials who attempt to disagree with him. “How can we trust a President who instead of welcoming an investigation to clear his name and put this matter to rest, he fires the lead person investigating the accusations. I cannot watch this sinking ship take down the American democracy. We need to get to the bottom of this,” said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver is also requesting an independent staff dedicated to this investigation to cooperate with the Treasury Department and the intelligence community. See the full letter here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - “This report that President Trump may have provided highly classified information to senior Russian officials is beyond disturbing. Congress must immediately be briefed on what, if anything, was provided to Russian senior officials, and whether it could impact the national security interest of the United States. Additionally, the seriousness of these allegations cannot be understated. It’s past time for an independent commission.” U.S. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined the Congressional Black Caucus Diversity Task Force in sending a letter to corporate officials highlighting the need for greater diversity in the private sector. In the letter, the Members requested a meeting with the following organizations to discuss the issue: the US Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable, the Investment Company Institute, and the Organization for International Investment. “It troubles me that in the year 2017 we are still fighting for inclusion in a corporate culture that should welcome the diverse knowledge of others. African Americans have been great contributors to the financial and technology sector of this nation and should be included at all levels of corporate America. Additionally, along with a number of my CBC colleagues, we have advocated for greater African-American diversity in the tech sector and rest assured, we will continue to push tech industry CEOs for less talk and more results.” said Congressman Cleaver. The letter, which can be found here, CBC Corporate Diversity Letter.pdf, specifically calls out the need for greater diversity in corporate boards, C-Suites, supplier chains, and the advocacy community. “There are currently only four companies in the S&P 500 with Black chief executives. This is abysmal. There are thousands of eligible Black executives that can provide excellent leadership to organizations immediately. We want to see results. We need to see a true commitment to making the leadership of America’s most successful firms look more like America, “ the letter states. It is important to have diverse policy advocates in order to add perspective to the various policy debates that are underway in the Capitol. We will keep you informed on any new developments. See study on diversity from the Deloitte Alliance for Board Diversity, Diversity Board Study.pdf Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.10.2017	(Kansas City, MO) - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement regarding the firing of FBI Director James Comey. "I expect more information to be revealed within the coming days but this doesn't look good for the current administration - to fire your top investigator in the middle of an investigation? Each time we have these incidents, it knocks down the people's faith in our government. I am calling for an independent investigation into President Donald Trump's ties to Russia. This shouldn't be a partisan issue. It's time for a special prosecutor." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.09.2017	(Kansas City, MO) – Earlier this year, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II was informed that the Hickman Mills American Legion Post 598, located at 11600 Blue Ridge Blvd., had been in desperate need of a wheelchair accessible ramp. The Post provides services for veterans in the Kansas City area. “Many of the veterans said they were lifting people in wheelchairs up and down the stairs which I’m certain was too much of a strenuous activity for them,” said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver’s office reached out to the city of Kansas City and to members of The Whole Person of Kansas City, a non-profit organization that connects people with disabilities with resources. The Whole Person, without hesitation, constructed a ramp and hand rails within a few days. “It’s just been wonderful. The Whole Person provided all of the material and the labor. We are so pleased,” said Craig Sparks, Vice Commander of the Post. “I am grateful to the members of The Whole Person who provided this ramp for our veterans. It’s the least we can do for the men and women who have given us our freedom and the liberties we enjoy today,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.04.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement on House passage of The American Health Care Act. “Republicans in Congress have put the health of millions of people in jeopardy by passing Trumpcare. This was a mistake on all levels and I did not support it. Americans across the country have flooded Congressional offices with phone calls asking them to vote “No” on repealing the Affordable Care Act.” The poorly conceived Trumpcare plan will raise costs for those with pre-existing conditions and result in 24 million Americans losing their healthcare coverage. Rural America will have far less access to health care resources, 14 million people lose their Medicaid, and older Americans will be forced to pay higher premiums. “Today is a sad day for America but the fight is not over. Americans deserve access to healthcare and I will continue to stand up for them.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
04.21.2017	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce that the Kansas City Public Library will share a nearly quarter-million dollar grant awarded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). This two year grant of, $249,586, will be used to advance the Kansas City Public Library’s digital learning program. “This is a tremendous opportunity for the Kansas City Public Library to be awarded the National Leadership Grant from the Institute of Museum and Library Services. For decades, the library has been the only public place where children and adults know they can get help if they do not have the resources they need at home,” said Congressman Cleaver. The digital learning program trains librarians and volunteers who meet with peers to work together on digital topics such as email, mapping and directions, internet safety and other online courses. The Kansas City Library will work with Peer2Peer University to scale up Learning Circles, a community-based learning program. Learning Circles combines enrollment in online courses with in-person group study sessions facilitated by librarians covering a range of academic, professional, and personal development subjects. “I’m glad that our office was able to assist in making sure our libraries have the technology, equipment and training needed to educate and assist the public,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Programs like this one, and other federal funding that our local libraries rely on, could be on the chopping block next year. The Fiscal Year 2018 budget blueprint, released by President Trump, cut funding to the Institute of Museum and Library Services by $230 million. We need to do all we can to support federal library funding which goes to local libraries all around the country.” The Institute of Museum and Library Services is the primary source of federal support for the nation’s 123,000 libraries and approximately 35,000 museums with a mission to inspire them to advance innovation, lifelong learning, and cultural and civic engagement. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
04.19.2017	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce Grant Smits of Grain Valley High School as the winner of the 2017 Fifth Congressional District Art Competition. Grant’s painting entitled, “Redwoods“ will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. He will also receive two airline tickets to attend a reception in Washington D.C. where he will join first place winners from other Congressional Districts across the U.S., a Kansas City Art Institute full tuition Pre-College Art Lab Scholarship, and a partial scholarship to Savannah College of Arts and Deign in Savannah, Georgia. Grant is a high school junior and in addition to art, he enjoys computers and music. He created his own computer game and was a percussionist his freshman year. His proud parents are Dwaine and Danielle Smits. Grant is one of six siblings. His teacher, Lauren Snodgrass, was also presented with an award at the competition. She received a free “art educator” class at the Kansas City Art Institute. Students who also placed at the art contest included: 2nd Place Winner; Nayoung Kwon, The Barstow School 3rd Place Winner; Linda Xu, The Barstow School 4th Place Winner; Daniel Garcia-Roman, Lincoln College Preparatory Academy 5th Place Winner; Jocelyn Sands, Lee’s Summit High School Honorable Mention; Kayla Garrett, Paseo Academy of Fine and Performing Arts “Congratulations to Grant and to all of the winners this year. The art was truly amazing and it will be an honor each day to walk through the Capitol and see Grant’s painting hanging there,” said Congressman Cleaver. Each year, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in each congressional district. This year, 270 entries from high school students in the Fifth District were submitted in the competition, “A Voyage of Artistic Discovery”. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
04.12.2017	(Kansas City, MO) – The 2017 Congressional Art Competition is quickly approaching. Each year, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation in each congressional district. This year, students from Missouri’s 5th Congressional district have submitted 270 art entries in the competition entitled, A Voyage of Artistic Discovery. “This is truly a highlight of my congressional year. I love to see the students’ work. I’m always excited to recognize and showcase their talent,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. The announcement of the top artist will take place on Saturday, April 15, 2017 at the Kansas City Public Library. Students submitted entries to Congressman Cleaver’s office in March. A panel will select the winning entry which is then displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The art will be on display at the Kansas City Library until April 17, 2017. Who: High School Students in Congressman Cleaver’s 5th Congressional District What: Congressional Art Competition, Viewing and Announcement of Winner When: Saturday, April 15, 2017 Reception: 1:30 p.m. Program: 2:00 p.m. Where: Kansas City Public Library, 14 West 10th Street, Kansas City, MO Kansas City, Missouri’s Director of City Communication, Chris Hernandez, will be the guest emcee for the event at the downtown Public Library. For more information about this press release, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
04.03.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to welcome an expected 4,000 people to the National World War I Museum and Memorial for the upcoming April 6, 2017 World War I Centennial Commemoration – one of the largest gatherings of international dignitaries outside of a United Nations meeting in our nation’s history. Over 25 nations have confirmed their attendance including countries such as France, Belguim, the United Kingdom, Italy and others. International countries will be represented by Ambassadors, Members of Parliament, and other officials. The United States will be represented by Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Paul Selva, Secretary of the Army Robert Speer, Missouri Governor Eric Greitens, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, Mayor Sly James, prominent WWI descendants, and many others. The event is FREE to the public, but interested individuals are required to request a ticket at www.ww1cc.org/April6. Due to overwhelming demand, the WWI Centennial Commission has already made an additional 500 public tickets available. “This will be the largest assembly of foreign dignitaries in Kansas City’s history, to recognize and remember the United States’ decision to enter into World War I a century ago,” said Congressman Cleaver. The Patrouille de France, the French Air Force’s aerobatic demonstration team (counterparts to the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds), will perform a flyover as a tribute to America’s involvement in WWI. The Patrouille de France have not been to the United States in over 30 years. Members of the French flight crew will arrive in Kansas City on April 5, 2017. The ceremony being held in Kansas City serves as affirmation of Congressman Cleaver’s long-standing commitment to continuing to honor veterans of World War I. The Congressman serves as an Honorary Host of the event. “I fought for the creation of the U.S. WWI Centennial Commission years ago because I know how important it is to honor our veterans - to never forget what they sacrificed for our country and other nations,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I couldn’t be happier that the WWI Commission has decided to commemorate this historic event right here in Missouri’s Fifth District.” Media and press registration is crucial as security will be heightened due to the presence of a large number of international dignitaries. Media credentialing is available at www.ww1cc.org/april6 under Media Resources, Request credentials. Congressman Cleaver is also available for comments both before and after the event. Please contact Heather Frierson at heather.frierson@mail.house.gov or 816-842-4545. WHAT: The national ceremony commemorating the 100th year of the United States Entry into World War I “In Sacrifice for Liberty and Peace: Centennial Commemoration of the U.S. Entry into World War I” WHEN: Thursday, April 6, 2017 9:00 a.m. CST Prelude and Pre-Ceremony 10:45 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. CST Ceremony WHERE: National World War I Museum and Memorial 2 Memorial Drive, Kansas City, MO 64108 Media parking available upon registration Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
03.28.2017	(Washington D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is extremely concerned about the effects that President Donald Trump’s FY 2018 budget will have on rural Americans and small town citizens. “This budget is not for rural America and it hurts working families, veterans, and especially low-income families and seniors,” said Congressman Cleaver. President Trump’s budget cuts nearly $2.6 billion in infrastructure investments, half a billion dollars of which goes to rural water and sewage improvements. It eliminates TIGER grants which many rural communities rely on for infrastructure. “It is our rural areas that need the most help with infrastructure - aging roads, failing sewer and water systems. These small towns need help to attract private investors to help them build and revitalize,” said Congressman Cleaver. The budget entirely eliminates funding for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. The CDBG program allows rural communities to repair crumbling housing stock; helps seniors, veterans, and struggling individuals and families stay in their homes; and maintains critical infrastructure systems that preserve residents’ access to clean water and protect them from toxic waste. Following the 2014 tornado in Orrick, MO, $375,000 of CDBG funding was designated to repair streets and remove storm debris to help the community recover. Proposed cuts to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will be extremely harmful to rural America. Reducing the USDA budget by 21%, or $4.7 billion would have a devastating impact on local farm service offices that are in nearly every rural county in America. These offices would be forced to cut staff or worse, close completely. Farm services help farmers with loan programs and conservation initiatives. Reducing the USDA budget would also limit small business opportunities with cuts to the Rural Business and Cooperative Service (RBS) grants. Missouri received $56 million in RBS grants and direct and guaranteed loans. RBS created or saved 2,427 jobs and assisted 5,088 businesses in Missouri towns with populations of less than 50,000. “RBS is the backbone of rural communities by providing invaluable resources to farmers. Cutting these programs literally cuts the farmer off from the services they need to maintain a living,” said Congressman Cleaver. RBS specifically assists farmers with purchasing cost-saving technology including grain dryers, anaerobic digesters (used by dairy farmers), solar panels and alternative fuels like ethanol. Rural health care will also be hard hit by proposed budget cuts. Programs through the U.S. Department of Health and Human services that train rural primary care physicians, as well as nurses and physicians assistants will be cut by $403 million. This will make it more difficult for families and seniors to find health care services in their rural communities. The budget calls for the elimination of funding for the National Endowment of the Humanities (NEH) and Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB). Between 2008 and 2012, Missouri organizations received $12.6 million from the NEH and the Missouri Humanities Council for projects that preserve cultural heritage. Specifically, 100,000 pages of historic Missouri newspapers, such as the St. Joseph Observer and the University Missourian, are being digitized by the State Historical Society of Missouri, Columbia with the support of NEH grant funding. The CPB gave out more than $6.9 million in grants for radio and television programming, support and digital improvements, including stations in Warrensburg and Maryville. “I want you to know, I cannot support this budget. I’ve always believed that the budget is a moral document – one that reflects our values as a nation. This budget does just the opposite. I will remain committed to making sure that rural communities in my district and around the country are not devastated by severe budget cuts, “ said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
03.16.2017	“President Trump’s FY18 budget contains significant cuts and changes to several departments that are simply put -- harmful. This budget hurts working families and makes low-income families and elderly citizens, most vulnerable. I am especially troubled by the proposed cuts to Community Development Block Grants, (CDBG) which are vitally important to urban and rural areas. Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit and Blue Springs are four cities entitled to CDBG grants. All of the rest of the cities, in the 5th District of Missouri, compete for funding from the state of Missouri allocation. The President’s budget proposal; • Eliminates the $3 billion Community Development Block Grant program. In 2016, the 5th District of Missouri had 4 grantees and received over $8.5 million and in 2015 received $8.7 million. In Kansas City, the city used over $5 million in leverage to obtain other funds that totaled to over $111 million worth of housing development in the fiscal years, 2015-2017. • Eliminates the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which the Kansas City area has received 2 grants worth over $2 million in 2016. • Choice Neighborhoods program (Eliminated) – Kansas City received grants totaling over $30.25 million • Self-help Homeownership Opportunity Program (Eliminated) • Eliminates the $35 million of funding for Section 4 Community Development and Affordable Housing • Cuts Women, Infants and Children (WIC) nutrition assistance from $6.4 billion to $6.2 billion. • Eliminates the $500 million Water and Wastewater loan and grant program. The current Water and Wastewater loan and grant program struggles to help many rural communities update their facilities and keep their water bills from going up outrageously. This program needs to be bolstered…not cut. • Unspecified staff reductions at USDA service center agencies around the country – which would almost certainly close many county USDA offices meaning local jobs lost and a distancing of the federal government from the population. • Cuts $95 million from the Rural Business and Cooperative Service • Eliminates the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Missouri received over $73 million in 2016 and so far in 2017 has received $65.3 million to help low-income families, individuals with disabilities, and the elderly living on fixed incomes afford to heat and power their homes. Veterans also make up nearly 20 percent of all LIHEAP recipients. During the hottest and coldest months, energy bills can cost up to 30 percent of a low-income person’s monthly income. The program is continually oversubscribed, and there are about 1.3 million additional households across the country that have not received funding who are eligible for the program. LIHEAP is an effective partnership between the federal government, states, and the private sector, and Congressman Cleaver has been a leader in supporting the program and pushing for greater funding for the last several years. • Eliminates the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG), cutting out $4.2 billion • Eliminates the Economic Development Administration, (EDA) $221 million • Eliminates the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) $32 million • Legal Services Corporation (Legal Aid) $366 Million (legal services to the nation's poor) • Corporation for National and Community Service AmeriCorps ($771 million) • TIGER Grants Eliminated – this is a highly competitive program that is oversubscribed every year by both rural and urban communities. Last year the program received 585 applications from around the country. In 2010, Kansas City received $50 million for new bus stops, sidewalks and other work in the metro area – including the Troost Bridge - and created 2,455 jobs throughout the region and transportation benefits totaling $710 million. In 2013, the City of KC received a $20 million TIGER grant for the planning and development of the downtown streetcar. • President Trump’s proposal to cut education by $9 billion is extreme. Public schools will see a loss in qualified teachers and training. Students struggling for affordable college will see a $4 billion cut to Pell grants. It is my hope that this budget be rejected by Members of Congress.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
03.15.2017	(Washington D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II sent a letter to the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Richard Cordray, requesting an investigation into FinTech or financial technology companies and whether their small business lending algorithms are discriminatory. The letter is included here. “FinTech lending companies are part of an alternative and fast-growing industry that makes financial loans to small businesses but they also pose many new risks,” said Congressman Cleaver. FinTech companies essentially cut-out the “middle man” for many entrepreneurs seeking to start their own business. Examples of FinTech companies include; Prosper, Biz2Credit, Kabbage, and FundBox. Many of these companies use algorithms not subject to public disclosure. The CFPB is charged with overseeing financial firms for compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which forbids the consideration of race, gender, and other factors in the lending process. FinTech lending algorithms may be using data that might have a disparate impact on small business underwriting decisions. “The silent pickpocket of discrimination shouldn’t thwart the American Dream. Americans looking to start a small business shouldn’t pay higher interest rates because of their race or ethnicity,” said Rohit Chopra, a Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America. Chopra previously served as Assistant Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Some of the complaints against FinTech identified in a Harvard Business School report include: • High cost annual percentage rates, some reaching above 300%. • Double Dipping- borrowers charged additional fees each time they renew their loans. • Hidden prepayment charges- FinTech lenders require payment of full interest even when loans are repaid early. • Misaligned broker incentives- Small-business loan brokers often recommend the most expensive loans because they earn the highest fees on those loans. • Stacking- Multiple lenders provide loans to the same borrower, resulting in additional and hidden fees. “In addition to these findings, I am deeply concerned that some FinTech companies may be using algorithms that shut out hardworking individuals from communities of color from accessing affordable small business credit. It is important to determine if minority-owned small businesses are being charged higher rates, or if they have been subject to predatory rates by these FinTech firms,” Congressman Cleaver stated in the letter. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
03.09.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II sent a letter, which can be found here, to President Donald Trump to address the crisis involving multi-employer pensions. Hundreds of thousands of retirees across the country, who believed their pensions were secure, are discovering an unsettling reality. That is, large multi-employer funds such the Central States Pension Fund, are lacking the money to pay retirees. The Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) reports that 1.5 million people in 200 multi-employer plans across the country are in grave risk of insolvency. If one of these plans – such as the Central States Fund – collapses, the PBGC would go under and all 10 million pensioners guaranteed by the PBGC would face the loss of their pensions. “I’ve listened to people in my district who worked for decades to secure their retirement. They sacrificed to make sure they would have a decent life after working. Now those people are finding that their pensions won’t be there. Some are facing reductions as much as 60-70 percent, “ said Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver has been working on behalf of retirees on this issue since 2015. In addition to a large town hall meeting held last year in Kansas City, Missouri, Congressman Cleaver also sent a letter to the Department of Justice requesting a formal investigation into the management of the Central States Pension Fund to determine if there was any fraudulent or mishandling of funds. He also joined other U.S. House members in requesting a full accounting by the Government Accountability Office (GAO). That study is currently ongoing. Congressman Cleaver will continue those efforts in 2017 beginning with this letter asking that President Trump work with Congress on correcting this issue. “It’s not fair to those retirees, and we need to make this right. I’m hoping President Trump feels the same way,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
03.07.2017	“This latest proposal by the Republicans guts the Affordable Care Act and ends access to health care as we know it. This isn’t replacement, this is an elimination - snatching healthcare away from millions of Americans. This plan would cut Medicaid and force older Americans to pay more out of pocket. The only people who will benefit from this plan are the big insurance companies and the wealthy with extreme tax breaks. The purpose of the ACA was to ensure that all Americans regardless of income, age, or health status would be able to receive health care. This plan defeats that purpose, making our country sicker.” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II Missouri’s 5th District U.S. House of Representatives Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
03.03.2017	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined millions of Americans in marking the annual celebration of March as Women’s History Month – a commemoration that has occurred in America since 1987. “During Women’s History Month, we honor the courageous women in our history who have advanced the promise of equality, including such giants as Susan B. Anthony, Eleanor Roosevelt and Shirley Chisholm," Congressman Cleaver said. This year, 2017, marks the 100th anniversary of women serving in Congress. On April 2, 1917, we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Jeannette Rankin, the first woman Member of Congress and a suffragette, being sworn into office. She was sworn into office three years before women nationwide were guaranteed the right to vote. In 1970, there were still only 11 women in Congress – 10 in the House and 1 in the Senate. However, as progress for women has accelerated in recent years, the increase in the number of women in Congress has been dramatic. Now, in the 115th Congress, there is a record number of women serving in Congress, with a total of 109 women in Congress, including Delegates – 88 in the House and 21 in the Senate. “There are many steps that need to be taken to expand the economic opportunities available to America’s women. In recent years, Congressional Democrats have been fighting to enact such critical legislation as ensuring equal pay for equal work, expanding the availability of affordable child care, a paid sick leave initiative, and a paid family leave initiative.” “As we celebrate Women’s History Month, let us continue to work to make an America for our daughters and our granddaughters where they will truly have the equal rights, the equal opportunities, and the equal treatment, that they so need and deserve,” Congressman Cleaver said. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
02.27.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II served as the guest speaker for the annual Black History Month Celebration for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the CFPB. The CFPB, created in 2008 after the financial crisis, was designed to protect consumers from unfair, deceptive and or abusive practices. Congressman Cleaver is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and was recently re-elected Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance. Congressman Cleaver received a standing ovation following his speech. “I am honored to have been asked to speak at the CFPB for their Black History Month celebration. This forum gave me an opportunity to speak on an issue near and dear to me, the importance of diversity and the necessity of equality in education to achieve this goal,” said Congressman Cleaver. At the luncheon held at the CFPB headquarters in Washington, D.C., Congressman Cleaver recounted the importance of education and the struggle that the African American community has faced in order to receive that education. “When we talk about education and Black history, it is significant and there are a lot twists and turns along the way to realize what African Americans have gone through to get to this point. One of the things I am hoping is that we continue down the twists and turns until we reach a point where Black history is not even necessary. It will be part of American history.” He also addressed the important work that the CFPB does and reminded those present of their critical role in securing the financial system - empowering consumers to safely access credit, mortgages and financial products. “When it comes to protecting the people who are protecting the people, you have someone in your corner,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
02.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – This afternoon, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II along with Members from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus were ejected from a scheduled meeting with Acting Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Thomas Homan. The purpose of the meeting was to gather information from ICE regarding the recent reports of raids and arrests of undocumented immigrants across the country. “It is very unusual for a federal agency to refuse to share information when that is the purpose of their visit to Capitol Hill. In my 12 years in Congress, I have never seen this happen. Even a 25 year Member and leader on the issue of immigration, Congressman Luis Gutierrez, was not allowed to stay. The information obtained from this meeting could have been vitally important to the people of my district,” said Congressman Cleaver. CHC members called for a meeting with ICE last week in a letter addressed to Mr. Horman. The purpose of that meeting was to have an open and candid discussion regarding changes ICE has made. ICE officials canceled that meeting, then scheduled a second meeting with a select few Members of Congress. There was no indication that House Democrats or the CHC would be denied access. “This is not Washington, this is the new Washington,” said Congressman Cleaver. “But that will not prevent me from doing my job and getting answers for the American people.” The letter can be found here; 2017-02-10 - House Democrats re Enforcement Actions.pdf Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
02.07.2017	(Kansas City, MO)- Over 1,100 people gathered at the Manual Technical Center in Kansas City, Missouri on Saturday, February 4, 2017 to hear information regarding recent changes to the nation’s immigration and refugee policies at a town hall event hosted by Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. Heartfelt testimonials, were from given from two special guests; Robert Sagastume- a DREAMER/ DACA student, (Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors),(Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) who spoke about his struggles as an undocumented student and Kilindo R. Nalukuli- a refugee who gave insight into living in a refugee camp. The panel of experts included; Sara Baker, Missouri ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union), Rev. Rick Behrens, AIRR (Advocates for Immigrant Rights and Reconciliation), Steve Weitkamp, JVS (Jewish Vocational Services), Alma Acosta, CHC (Congressional Hispanic Caucus), and Congressman Luis Gutierrez, of Illinois’ 4th District. The event was also live-streamed to further engage concerned constituents.
01.31.2017	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement today on his election as the Ranking Democratic Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance of the House Committee on Financial Services: “Today, my colleagues selected me to serve again as the Ranking Member of the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee of the House Committee on Financial Services. I am proud of the work undertaken by this subcommittee last Congress and look forward to continuing to promote and advocate for housing and insurance policy. Having grown up in public housing, I know firsthand the importance of ensuring that families across the country have access to safe and affordable homes. This is as important today as it was in the wake of the 2008 financial crash, and I am committed to working to preserve and to create affordable housing opportunities for all. No one in our great nation – not our veterans, not our elderly, not our children – should be without a home. The Housing and Insurance Subcommittee has an important role to play this Congress. It is essential that we immediately begin the work to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program that is set to expire this year, as well as continue to strengthen our housing market. Make no mistake, I am also uniquely aware of the challenges faced by rural communities and remain committed to expanding rural housing and development.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
01.30.2017	(Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver II, will hold a Town Hall Meeting on Saturday, February 4, 2017 at 2 p.m. at the Manual Career Technical Center, located at 1215 E. Truman Road, in Kansas City, Missouri. President Donald Trump recently signed executive orders on immigration during his first week in office. This town hall meeting will address how these changes to immigration will affect thousands of families here in the Kansas City area and throughout the 5th District of Missouri. Congressman Cleaver will listen to concerns and be joined by a panel of experts in the field to answer questions that individuals and families may have regarding the potential elimination of the DACA program and any changes to the refugee and visa program. “Families should not be out there lost to the wind. They want to know what to do, where to turn. They want to know answers. I’m going to try and provide that for them. Please come out to Manual Tech with your concerns on Saturday. We may not be able to undo what President Trump has done, but we can help you find answers about what to do next,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. The panel will feature immigration lawyers, and experts from local and national organizations. We invite immigrants, refugees, advocates and the public-at-large to join in the discussion on the proposed changes to the U.S. immigration policy. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
12.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) advocated for the inclusion of language in the end-of-year Continuing Resolution – H.R. 2028 - and is pleased to announce that the language was included in the final bill. H.R. 2028 was passed by the U.S. House earlier this month by a vote of 326-96. This added language will help further the redevelopment of the old Bannister Complex. H.R. 2028 provides funding for the U.S. Government until April 28, 2017. Special language was needed to provide full funding for the transfer of ownership of the Bannister Complex from the National Nuclear Security Administration to private ownership. “Our hands were tied. We could not make a move towards new use and new ownership at the Bannister Complex without the full funding. Thankfully, we can now get to work and begin the clean-up and redevelopment of this blighted area,” said Congressman Cleaver. The National Nuclear Security Administration, which currently owns the property, needed $200 million for demolition and remediation costs to meet legal obligations to transfer the Bannister complex to private ownership in 2017. The transfer of the Bannister Complex is years in the making. A delay could derail the sale and cost the federal government an additional $40 million or more to maintain the property. With private ownership, the land can be remediated for industrial use. The 300-acre Bannister Plant was originally built in 1942 to manufacture airplane engines, and began producing mechanical weapon components for our nuclear weapon stockpile in 1949. The facility has soil and groundwater contamination from chemicals used in manufacturing and solid waste disposal. The cleanup and redevelopment of the Bannister property is crucial for the stabilization and recovery of South Kansas City. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.08.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the 2016 Water Resources Development Act bill, S.612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act. This bill authorizes water resources development projects to be carried out by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and also authorizes funding to address the Flint water crisis. Several flood protection projects in the Kansas City area are included in the final House bill. In a successful bi-partisan effort, Missouri Congressmen Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-05) and Sam Graves (R- 06) advocated for the inclusion of these Kansas City projects in WRDA, which authorizes flood control and other water infrastructure projects conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers. “I am pleased to see the passage of the 2016 WRDA bill, S.612. This bill contains several flood control projects that are imperative for Kansas City area. I’m pleased that Congressman Graves and I were able to work together to advocate for these improvements that will help protect families and businesses against the devastation of floods,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Proper maintenance of the Missouri River affects everyone and everything in the Kansas City area,” Rep. Graves said. “Over the past year, Congressman Cleaver and I have worked to highlight the importance of levee systems that protect thousands of homes and millions of dollars in economic activity across our region. I am pleased to see those projects prioritized here, ensuring KC has the best possible defense against floods that could threaten lives and devastate local business.” Congressman Graves continued. The target areas in Kansas City that would receive significant improvements are; Turkey Creek Basin Flood Project – Increased authorization to $156.1 million for the final phases would widen the channel, relocate bridges, and include tunnel modifications to finish the project. Turkey Creek flows 15 miles through the Kansas City metro, and its frequent flooding poses serious risks to loss of life and residential and commercial areas. Blue River Basin Project in the Dodson Industrial District – Increased authorization to $48.4 million for the final phase would complete this project and would include a 6,800 foot levee floodwall along the north bank of the Blue River, protecting over $380 million in property investment and the 1,500 people who work in the area. Armourdale and Central Industrial District Levees –Authorization of $328.1 million to start construction of Phase II of the project. These levees cover 60 miles along the Missouri and Kansas Rivers, providing critical flood project to the economic heart of Kansas City. The project protects over 5,000 structures totaling over $20 billion in investments, plus serving as home to 24,000 people. Swope Park Industrial Area – Increased authorization to $32.4 million to complete the project. Swope Park Industrial Area is a 50-acre business park with multiple companies and over 400 employees. The site sits along the Blue River, and only one access road exists into the park. The project will provide flooding relief and create a permanent safe passage for workers in and out of the industrial area. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined 40 other U.S. Representatives in a letter to House leaders regarding future pensions. The charge led by U.S. Reps. Marcy Kaptur, Rick Nolan and Cheri Bustos urged House Leadership to reject any proposal attacking the hard-earned pension benefits of retirees and workers added as a rider to any end-of-year legislation. Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce that the effort was successful in keeping harmful provisions out of appropriations legislation. “When I spoke with and listened to hundreds of retirees earlier this year in a town hall meeting, who were in fear of facing dramatic cuts to their pensions, the only thing I could think of was how did this happen. I believe one of the problems involved last minute budget moves. We can’t let that happen again,” said Congressman Cleaver. The lawmakers urged House Leadership to reject House Education and Workforce Chairman John Kline’s draft composite pension proposal, because the proposal has not been fully debated in Congress. House leaders responded and the proposal failed. Congressman Cleaver has been working on behalf of retirees, and specifically those with the Central States Pension Fund, since 2015. Hundreds of retirees have written to his office regarding the future stability of the Fund. This February Congressman Cleaver held a town hall meeting in his district in Kansas City, Missouri and invited U.S. Department of Treasury’s Special Executive to Compensation, Ken Feinberg to listen to the retirees’ concerns. He also sent a letter to the Department of Justice requesting a formal investigation into the management of the Central States Pension Fund to determine if there was any fraudulent or mishandling of funds. At least 32,000 retirees would be affected in Missouri by any cuts to the Central States Pension Fund. The full text of the letter is available below: December 5, 2016 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Kevin McCarthy Majority Leader U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Minority Leader U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Steny Hoyer Minority Whip U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McCarthy, Minority Leader Pelosi, and Minority Whip Hoyer, We write to express grave concern over the possible inclusion of pension reform legislation to “modernize multiemployer pensions” in any must-pass, end-of-year legislative vehicle, particularly a budgetary continuing resolution. Just two years ago, at the last minute and behind closed doors, a similar negotiation unfolded and resulted in the inclusion of the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act (MPRA) in the 2014 Cromnibus. We are deeply troubled to hear this may happen again with pension legislation that would have significant consequences to American workers and retirees. In September 2016, House Education & Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline revealed a discussion draft and held one hearing on a “Discussion Draft to Modernize Multiemployer Pensions,” which would change funding rules for pension plans to allow the creation of “composite” multiemployer plans. The composite plans would combine elements of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. Although we commend Chairman Kline for his commitment and desire to address the looming challenges of retirement security in America, to include this proposal in must-pass legislation without a formal introduction, in addition to no Committee markup, floor debate, or independent floor vote, is unacceptable. On such critical life issues as retirement and financial security, we seek to be involved in the creation of the legislative proposal and engage in a transparent debate through regular process. We are in full agreement that Congress must address the multiemployer retirement savings crisis and that tough choices will likely be required. However, we cannot blindly accept a proposal that has been through almost zero regular order and which permits employers and pension funds to transition to new plans that may put existing “legacy” plans that already face funding challenges at greater risk. Although Chairman Kline assures his proposal is good for employers, workers, retirees, and taxpayers, the current circumstances multiemployer pension funds in America face is a zero-sum situation and a result of circumstances beyond the control of workers and retirees. Again, as we saw with MPRA, retirees are asked to bear the brunt of this policy’s proposals, with almost no input. Concerns[1] have already arisen that his new proposal provides inadequate funding for new composite plans and will weaken the funding base for existing plans. The proposal will not only put retirees’ pensions at risk, but will reduce premium payments and add significant new liabilities to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation’s already underfunded multiemployer insurance program. Following the unacceptable inclusion of MPRA in the 2014 Cromnibus deal, we continue to hear extensively from constituent retirees whose retirement security is at stake. These hardworking Americans deserve a fair, thorough and open legislative process where their interests are weighed and heard. Given the limited time since Chairman Kline unveiled his proposal and its subsequent limited review and process, we firmly assert that its inclusion in any must-pass legislation is intolerable. Thank you for your consideration of our request. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
11.16.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined nearly 170 U.S. Representatives in writing a letter to President-elect Donald Trump encouraging him to reconsider his appointment of Stephen Bannon as White House Chief Strategist. Congressman Cleaver strongly opposes this appointment and has received numerous calls from constituents in the 5th District of Missouri urging him to speak for them. Stephen Bannon’s ties to the White Nationalist movement have been noted and well documented. This appointment not only undermines Mr. Trump’s call to be the president for all of the American people, it sets an overall discriminatory tone to millions of Americans. “We are asking that President-elect Trump bridge the divide that is currently brewing in America,” said Congressman Cleaver. “No matter how rich, or how big a media star, or how many people bow down to you, the manner in which you treat fellow human beings, in due course, defines who you really are. ” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
11.02.2016	(Washington D.C.) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined Congresswoman Robin Kelly and other Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Members in sending a letter to Facebook CEO, Mark Zuckerberg. The letter, which can be found here, addresses reports of advertisers on Facebook, using a customization feature that excludes racial and ethnic groups when placing housing advertisements online. The customization feature allows for an “Ethnic Affinities” selection. By allowing online advertisers to promote or market a certain community for home sales, Facebook is therefore promoting restrictive housing practices. “This is a direct violation of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 and it is our strong desire to see Facebook address this issue immediately,” stated the letter, signed by Congressman Cleaver, CBC Chairman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL), and Congresswoman Yvette Clark (D-NY). “Facebook may not have intentionally created this feature to separate communities, but there are minority families who have not seen or heard of the housing opportunities and sales that are being marketed and made available to others. Everyone should have the same opportunity to see what’s available to them,” said Congressman Cleaver. The Members are asking Mr. Zuckerberg to correct this customization feature in online housing advertisements. It is also important that technology industries like Facebook include more African Americans and minorities within their workforce to promote diversity and prevent future discriminatory practices. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
10.25.2016	Millions of Salaried Workers, who had been denied pay, will now be eligible to receive Overtime Pay (Kansas City, MO) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II will hold a press conference on Thursday, October 27, 2016 at 10:00 a.m. regarding the Department of Labor’s new Overtime Rule. In May of 2016, President Barack Obama and Secretary Thomas Perez announced the Department of Labor’s final rule updating overtime regulations. Prior to this announcement, the overtime rules had not been updated in several decades. In the recent years, middle-class income and wages have stagnated while income inequality has risen such that the top 1 percent holds 21 percent of national income. Currently, millions of salaried employees work well over 40 hours each week and are not paid for the overtime they accrue. This new rule will automatically extend overtime pay to over 4 million workers within the first year of implementation resulting in a meaningful boost to working families everywhere. It ensures that every worker is compensated for their hard work. The new rule would raise American wages by an estimated $12 Billion over the next decade. You can read more about the new rule here. The new rule takes effect on December 1, 2016. Last month, the House of Representatives considered a bill to delay implementation of the overtime rule. Though H.R. 6094 passed the House by a vote of 246-177, it was opposed by Congressman Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver will make an announcement in support of the new rule at the GoodWORKS Career Center of Goodwill of Western Missouri and Eastern Kansas where several employees and employees with other like companies will benefit from this welcomed change. WHO: Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II; Stefany Williams, President / CEO of Goodwill of Western Missouri and Eastern Kansas WHAT: Announcement of DOL Overtime Rule WHEN: Thursday, October 27, 2016, 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Goodwill Store, 4824 North Oak Trafficway, Kansas City, MO 64118 Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. About: Goodwill of Western Missouri & Eastern Kansas is a 501 (c) (3) nonprofit agency whose mission is to empower people with disadvantages and different abilities to earn and keep employment through individualized programs and services. Learn more at www.mokangoodwill.org.
10.03.2016	Assistance for Residents of Flint, Michigan also Included (Washington, D.C.) – After much deliberation, yesterday the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), H.R. 5303. Earlier this week, Democratic Caucus members fervently argued for an amendment that would provide repairs and health services to the residents of Flint, Michigan, without success. Today, however, House Republicans have agreed to an amendment that will authorize $170 million to repair and replace public and private infrastructure in Flint and across the country. The Senate’s version of WRDA (S. 2848), includes $220 million in emergency funding for infrastructure and health and community services for Flint and other communities facing lead contaminated water issues. “There are 9,000 children under the age of six who were exposed to lead through no fault of their own. It was unfathomable to me that nothing had been included to help these families. I’m glad that has since changed and both parties were able to agree that something should be done to help those suffering from lead poisoning. Even low blood lead concentrations can cause long-term intellectual and academic disabilities and higher rates of neurobehavioral disorders,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. In addition, several flood protection projects in the Kansas City area are included in the final House bill. In a successful bi-partisan effort, Missouri Congressmen Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-05) and Sam Graves (R- 06) advocated for the inclusion of these Kansas City projects in WRDA, which authorizes flood control and other water infrastructure projects conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers. “This is critical to protecting Kansas City businesses and families against the devastation of floods,” said Congressman Cleaver. Authorization for Turkey Creek Basin, Blue River Basin (Dodson Industrial Area), Swope Park Industrial Area, and Armourdale and Central Industrial District Levees will ensure these construction projects continue to move forward. The target areas in Kansas City that would receive significant improvements are; • Turkey Creek Basin Flood Project – Increased authorization to $152.5 million for the final phases would widen the channel, relocate bridges, and include tunnel modifications to finish the project. Turkey Creek flows 15 miles through the Kansas City metro, and its frequent flooding poses serious risks to loss of life and residential and commercial areas. • Blue River Basin Project in the Dodson Industrial District – Increased authorization to $46.5 million for the final phase would complete this project and would include a 6,800 foot levee floodwall along the north bank of the Blue River, protecting over $380 million in property investment and the 1,500 people who work in the area. • Armourdale and Central Industrial District Levees –Authorization of $318.5 million to start construction of Phase II of the project. These levees cover 60 miles along the Missouri and Kansas Rivers, providing critical flood project to the economic heart of Kansas City. The project protects over 5,000 structures totaling over $20 billion in investments, plus serving as home to 24,000 people. • Swope Park Industrial Area – Increased authorization to $31 million to complete the project. Swope Park Industrial Area is a 50-acre business park with multiple companies and over 400 employees. The site sits along the Blue River, and only one access road exists into the park. The project will provide flooding relief and create a permanent safe passage for workers in and out of the industrial area. ### For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
09.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) calls on House leadership to move forward with protecting and securing homes and businesses from potential flooding by voting on the Water Resources Development Act, (WRDA) H.R. 5303. Congressman Cleaver, along with over 142 House Members, sent a letter to the Speaker Paul Ryan, and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, asking that they bring WRDA for a vote. The letter can be found here. The U.S. Senate today passed their version of the water infrastructure bill, which also includes funding to help the residents of Flint, Michigan. “The Senate is currently considering their version of the bill on the floor this week. It is imperative that we in the House restore the practice of passing a Water Resources Development Act biennially to invest in our aging water infrastructure. We cannot afford to wait on these much needed changes,” said Congressman Cleaver. In a successful bi-partisan effort, Missouri Congressmen Emanuel Cleaver, II and Sam Graves advocated for the inclusion of several Kansas City projects in bill, which authorizes flood control and other water infrastructure projects conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers. The target areas in Kansas City prone to major flooding would receive significant improvements; Kansas City Levees – These levees along the Missouri and Kansas Rivers provide critical flood project to the economic heart of Kansas City, protecting over 5,000 structures totaling over $20 billion in investments, plus serving as home to 24,000 people. Turkey Creek Basin Flood Project – Authorization for the final phases would widen the channel, relocate bridges, and include tunnel modifications to finish the project. Turkey Creek flows 15 miles through the Kansas City metro, and its frequent flooding poses serious risks to loss of life and residential and commercial areas. Blue River Basin Project in the Dodson Industrial District – Authorization for the final phase would complete this project and would include a 6,800 foot levee floodwall along the north bank of the Blue River, protecting over $380 million in property investment and the 1,500 people who work in the area. ### For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
09.09.2016	The Popular On-line Booking Site Announces a 90-Day Review of Platform Practices Following Reports of Exclusions of African Americans and other minorities from booking rooms on its website. WASHINGTON, D.C. – In June, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) along with Congressional Black Caucus Chairman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) sent a letter to the CEO of Airbnb, Inc. Brian Chesky. The letter, which can be found here, addressed recent reports of discrimination against African-Americans and other minorities who attempt to book rooms online with Airbnb. Airbnb, the online booking site that allows prospective guests to rent out hosts’ homes or rooms in their homes, features a guest profile page which includes a picture, as well as other details about the guest. Some online users, particularly African Americans and other minorities, including members of the LGBT community, applied for accommodations online but were rejected. Some were told the room was not available then later saw the same place listed as available. Title II of the 1964 Civil Rights Act prohibits discrimination in places of public accommodation, including hotels and motels, because of race, color, religion or national origin. Yesterday, Airbnb announced new anti-discrimination policies, which include a commitment to increasing the number of homes available through Instant Book, allowing guests to book a home without the prior approval of a host. Airbnb also announced a new policy, “Open Doors” to assist guests who feel they have been discriminated against to find another place to stay, as well as anti-bias training for its entire community. “After meeting with Airbnb staff this week,” said Congressman Cleaver, “it is encouraging that the company has decided to respond constructively to the letter Chairman Butterfield and I sent to CEO Brian Chesky in June regarding discriminatory behavior by a number of Airbnb hosts. This is a commendable step in the right direction and I am confident that Airbnb will continue to take the correct actions to ensure that all consumers are treated as equals when using Airbnb’s services.” ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
08.05.2016	KANSAS CITY, MO – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) today marked the 51st anniversary of the signing of the Voting Rights Act (VRA) and called on his colleagues in Congress to pass bipartisan legislation to restore the VRA. Three years ago, in Shelby County v. Holder, the Supreme Court invalidated a key component of the VRA that prevented discrimination before it occurred. Since then, the right to vote has been under coordinated attack around the country. New restrictions have been put in place in 22 states since 2010, making it harder for millions of Americans to exercise their right to vote. “Actions speak louder than words,” said Congressman Cleaver. “We cannot continue to say we as a body support voting rights, while refusing to restore the Voting Rights Act. This is why I am proud to have signed a discharge petition to bring to the Floor and force an immediate vote on bipartisan legislation to restore and strengthen the Voting Rights Act. In the greatest democracy on earth, the path to the ballot box should be clear and unfettered. We must renew our commitment to protecting the right to vote for all Americans.” In Shelby County v. Holder, which has been called “a dagger in the heart of the Voting Rights Act,” Chief Justice Roberts acknowledged the ongoing persistence of voter discrimination and invited Congress to come up with a new coverage formula based on current conditions. Two bipartisan bills in Congress would do so, but neither has been brought to the Floor for a vote. “The Voting Rights Act is the most successful piece of civil rights legislation in history,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Its serious weakening and the coordinated attack on voting rights around the country are a direct threat to the strength of our democracy. Congress has an obligation and the responsibility to address this threat through federal legislation to restore and strengthen the Voting Rights Act. I call for an immediate vote on the bipartisan Voting Rights Advancement Act.” ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
08.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) and Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-03) will hold a press conference in Jefferson City, Missouri, on their legislation that was recently signed into law by President Obama. The legislation will reform housing policies in America for the first time in decades. This bi-partisan effort has been a long time coming. Their bill, H.R. 3700, represents the first time in more than 27 years that a bill has unanimously passed both houses of Congress under regular order, and not suspension of the rules. What: Press Conference on H.R. 3700, the Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act When: Monday, Aug. 8, 2016 at 10 a.m. CDT Where: 2117 Missouri Boulevard (Rep. Luetkemeyer’s Jefferson City office) ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
07.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, H.R. 3700, The Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act, successfully passed through the Senate. This bill, sponsored by Missouri Congressmen Emanuel Cleaver, II and Blaine Luetkemeyer, passed unanimously in the House on February 2, 2016. The bill was later introduced in the Senate by Senator Menendez, Senator Scott, Senator Coons, and Missouri Senator Roy Blunt. It successfully passed on July 14, 2016, and is now on its way to President Barack Obama's desk for signature. It represents the most significant changes to programs and processes in the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the United States Department of Agriculture’s Rural Housing Service in a quarter of a century. “The Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act is an example of successful bi-partisan efforts,” Congressman Cleaver stated. “As someone who grew up in public housing, I know personally the importance of having a safe, affordable home. I want to thank Congressman Luetkemeyer, Senator Menendez, and Senator Blunt for their efforts. By working together we were able to pass one of the largest sweeping reforms of our nation's housing programs in the last two decades, providing safe and affordable housing for all Americans.” This bill would: Streamline the inspection and income review process for families living in Section 8 units. Increase aid to former foster care children receiving housing assistance through the Family Unification Program by extending the age of eligibility from 21 years to 24 and by increasing the time of assistance to 36 months. Improve condo ownership opportunities through improvements to the FHA mortgage insurance program. Increase access to rural housing loans for low and moderate income households to purchase, build, or rehab homes. Support our veterans through the appointment of a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs in the Department of Housing and Urban Development. “I am incredibly pleased the Senate came together and passed this comprehensive legislation which represents real reforms to our nation’s housing programs and policies,” Congressman Luetkemeyer said. “I would like to thank Senators Roy Blunt, Bob Menendez, Tim Scott and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver for their unwavering support in seeing this legislation through the House and Senate. Now that both chambers have unanimously supported this legislation, it is my hope that the President will make this bill a law without delay. It is time to take the first meaningful step to changing our nation’s housing policies.” More information on the bill is available here. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
07.13.2016	Kansas City, MO – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) invites talented youth, ages 14-18 years old, to participate in the first annual 5th District KC Slam on the Vine Competition. Final deadline for submissions is July 26, 2016 before midnight. The competition will take place Monday, August 8, 2016. “This poetry competition is a unique way for young adults here in Missouri to showcase their talent. Our young people have a lot to say and what better way to allow them to speak than through their own poetry,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. Selected entries will perform in front of a panel of judges. The winner will be flown to Washington, D.C. to showcase their talents. Anyone interested in participating should contact the Kansas City office of Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II at 816-842-4545 or visit his website. Who: Students (ages 14-18) in Congressman Cleaver’s 5th District What: Spoken Word and Poetry Competition When: August 8, 2016 at 6:00 PM Where: The Blue Room on 18th and Vine, 1616 E. 18th Street, Kansas City, MO 64108 ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) released the following statement today after this week’s violence in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, St. Paul, Minnesota, and Dallas, Texas: “The events that have taken place over the course of these last few days have been deeply troubling and disheartening… police shootings and police officers shot and killed. I extend my condolences to the families who have lost the people they love. This has to stop. We must come together regardless of party to finally put an end to all of these senseless killings. It is time to make real change and I hope it starts right here in Congress.” ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.29.2016	KANSAS CITY, MO – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05) will hold a Twitter town hall meeting at approximately 3:30 p.m.CDT/4:30 EDT on Thursday, June 30, 2016, to answer any questions related to mass gun violence prevention legislation. Anyone interested in joining the Twitter town hall meeting can participate by tweeting questions to @RepCleaver using the hashtag #AskCleaver. Members of the media are also welcome to participate. WHO: Congressman Cleaver and constituents of Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District WHAT: Twitter town hall meeting to answer any questions related to mass gun violence prevention legislation WHEN: Thursday, June 30, 2016 at approximately 3:30 p.m. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Parker Low at 202-225-4535 or Parker.Low@mail.house.gov.
06.23.2016	Congressman Cleaver on the House Steps around 12:30am. WASHINGTON, DC – House Democrats began the second day of their historic House Floor sit-in on Thursday. At approximately 3:15 am, House Republicans adjourned until July 5, 2016, leaving town for thirteen days with no plan to bring any gun violence prevention legislation to the floor for a vote. “To be clear, all we are asking for is a vote,” Congressman Cleaver said. “It's a sin that after the largest mass shooting in US history, we are denied the right to a vote. Terrorists can obtain guns and we cannot even get the microphones or the cameras turned on in the House Chamber. The solution to gun violence is not to run away and recess in the middle of the night. We need action. This has happened too many times in the past several years – on guns, immigration, the budget, the list goes on. I’m here to tell you, we are in this for the long haul, for the thousands of people who have lost their lives in this country due to mass gun violence. It is time for us to stop sugarcoating and start voting.” ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - The following is the full text of Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II's (MO-05) speech delivered on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday, June 22, 2016, during the historic sit-in to end mass gun violence in this country. "Several months ago, Robyn Kelly and I had a discussion about the moment of silence. We had witnessed, like you, over and over and over again mass shootings. And then we come in here to vote and then we go through the obligatory minute of silence. So two or three months ago, I started walking out. Not in disrespect for those who were killed but because I am familiar with the Hebrew testament. When Moses, taking the children to freedom, is told by God when he starts to pray at the Red Sea, this is not the time to pray. “This is the time,” God said to Moses, “to move forward.” And so I made a commitment years and years ago that I would never go to bed without praying. I live in the Methodist building right across the street. I think I might have missed two nights when I had my last surgery. I’m not sure, but just to be safe I have said to the Lord I might have missed two nights. I’m not sure that we are doing a service to God if all we do is come in here to have a minute of silence and then more people get killed. "I used to tell my members that you know you gotta be prosperous; you ought to try to be prosperous. I mean if somebody is driving by a church and members are out giving jumpstarts and the pastors getting a push on his car and the windows are all out in the church. People will say we need to try to avoid that place. I mean that’s not a good testimony to the car. It’s not a good testimony to God to stand in here and do this year after year after year and do nothing. "Look, my uncle Emanuel Cleaver died in Atwater, California, two years ago. Leader Pelosi was kind enough to talk to him a few days before he died. As I’m trying to clear up his house I find seven guns. Seven. Now, it would be hypocritical for me to come up here and say people need to have all their guns removed. I mean, it would be hypocritical. That’s not what this is about. This is not gun control, this is terror control. And we ought to get back to business of saying, at least I mean the Congress of the United States of America, at least we ought to say if you are on the terror watch list you cannot buy a gun. That is simple. We’re not going home. Because we are talking about terror. We’re talking about terror. Terror! We’ll say no we are not going to do anything to limit the contact a possible terrorist would have to buy guns. This is the Congress of the United States and we are saying nothing. We are doing nothing! "I have twin boys. When they were about three years old, my wife and I are sleeping and we hear a sound. We jump up, we run in to their bedroom. One of them is on the floor, still asleep. I get down on my knees and I shake him and I say “Emil what’s wrong?” And he looked up at me and he looks over at his bed and he said “Dad I think I was sleeping too close to where I got in.” And that’s where we are, we are sleeping too close to where we got in. Mass killings, we are still on the edge. We haven’t moved over. We haven’t moved over. We need to do something. And we need to do something called make something happen. Stop pandering terrorists! I can’t get away from the thought that we are not willing to do something to stop terrorists from getting guns. "Now, I do have to say to you that I think something is going to be done. I don’t think this is in vain. I don’t think it’s in vain. Because 90, I was looking at a poll on tv this morning, 90% of Americans are with us. 90% of Americans, 90% of Republicans say that we ought to restrict guns so that terrorists, those on the terrorist list can’t get guns. Everybody’s for this and we can’t even get the mics on. I would expect the mics to be turned off in Moscow. "Now, let me just say, before I stop, I don’t want anybody here to give up. And I don’t want the American public to give up. Don’t give up, give out, give in. Because we are going to make it happen. Look, hope is hope only if things look hopeless. Otherwise it’s just a nice little word. And things that look dim and dark as they do right now for the American people that’s where hope shines best. And that’s why I’m so glad to be a part of this group out here because we are the hope of America right now. This is hope. "A little boy is sitting in a dugout and a man is walking by and he sees the little boy in the dugout. And he says to the little boy “What’s the score?” and the little boy says 18 to nothing and the man says “Boy I sure hope you don’t get discouraged.” And he said “Why should I be discouraged? This is the first inning, we haven’t come to bat yet.” Look, we want the American public to know we are coming to bat. I don’t care how bad it looks now, we are coming to bat. Coming to bat!" ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Democratic Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) released the following statement today in support of the sit-in on the House Floor, led by Georgia Congressman John Lewis, in support of taking action against mass gun violence and demanding a vote in the House of Representatives: “This is just too important to ignore. Mass shootings that claim the lives of innocent Americans should not be the norm. And make no mistake, it is time to finally close the terror gap once and for all, by barring gun sales to persons on the FBI’s terrorist watch list. We must allow a vote on the House floor!” ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-5) and Congressional Black Caucus Chair, G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) submitted a letter to the CEO of Airbnb, Inc., Brian Chesky. The letter, which can be read here, addresses recent reports of discrimination against African Americans and other minorities who attempt to book rooms online with Airbnb. Title II of the 1964 Civil Rights Act prohibits discrimination in places of public accommodation, including hotels and motels, because of race, color, religion or national origin. Yet, several African American consumers have been subjected to discrimination on the Airbnb Internet platform. Airbnb is an online booking site that allows prospective guests to rent out citizens’ homes or rooms in their homes. Airbnb features a guest profile page which includes a picture, as well as other details about the guest. Some online users, particularly African Americans and other minorities, including members of the LGBT community, applied for accommodations online but were rejected. Some were told the room was not available then later saw the same place listed as available. See reports here. “Perhaps, we have not moved as much as we think we have regarding discrimination, and homeowners just do not want people of a different race in their homes. If that is the case, you should not be permitted to utilize an interstate commerce platform such as Airbnb,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Racism and any form of discrimination should never be tolerated in our society,” said Chairman Butterfield. “Members of the CBC are deeply concerned about recent reports of exclusion of African Americans on the Airbnb platform, and we sincerely hope the leadership of Airbnb will take the issue of discrimination seriously and implement common sense measures to prevent such discrimination and ill-treatment of its customers in the future.” Chairman Butterfield and Congressman Cleaver urge Airbnb to conduct a comprehensive review of these accusations, as well as pinpoint how this issue is occurring and put an end to such practices and to not permit users to post availability of their units for 48 hours after they rejected someone from renting their unit. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congressman Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY) recently submitted a letter to the Department of Labor asking for technology companies that hold sizable government contracts to develop written affirmative-action programs. The letter, which can be found here, is cosigned by several members of the Congressional Black Caucus Diversity Task Force. While there has been growth in other industries regarding African-American employment, there is considerable underrepresentation of African-Americans in the technology industry. “We’ve heard the excuse from some tech companies that there aren’t enough African American applicants, but that is just not the case. African-Americans are majoring and graduating in computer science, they just aren’t being hired in reasonable numbers,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. "We must do everything possible to make sure all Americans can benefit from the opportunity and prosperity of the 21st Century innovation and technology economy,” said Congressman Jeffries. “Companies that profit from government contracts should help lead the effort to diversify the industry." “By the year 2020, there will be 1.4 million new tech jobs. Clearly, technology jobs are the future. Sadly, African Americans and other people of color are all too often locked out of these good-paying and rewarding careers,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee, co-chair of the CBC TECH 2020 Initiative. “I urge the Department of Labor, federal contractors and technology companies to continue working towards full inclusion for people of color in this booming industry. Our workforce of the future should reflect the incredible diversity of our nation.” According to the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) in 2012-2013, about 6,000 African American students earned computer and information science degrees in the U.S. However, minorities hired by some of the largest tech companies in Silicon Valley are virtually non-existent. As of 2014, the percentage of African Americans who work within technology companies whom hold sizable government contracts, was only 4.3 percent. Congressmen Cleaver and Jeffries urged the DOL in their letter to encourage government contracted tech companies to abide by federal regulations that require contractors with 50 or more employees to develop written affirmative action programs for each of its establishments. “It is alarming how many companies are able to secure government contracts without any checks and balances on their company’s diversity efforts, plans, and supporting data…this is not a game, it is the law,” wrote Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. The eight co-signers of the letter are Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05), Congressman Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Congressman G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13), Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-04), and Congressman Bennie Thompson (MS-02). Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, along with 177 other Members of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, sent a second letter respectfully asking House Speaker Paul Ryan to disband the Select Investigative Panel on Planned Parenthood. An initial letter was sent in February, but after continued exploitations of power, which have risked the safety of Americans, House Democrats have again called on Speaker Ryan to end this destructive behavior immediately. The Select Panel’s investigation has been solely focused on punishing women, health care providers, and researchers, who are already following the law. By continuing unilateral subpoenas, Chair Marcia Blackburn and the Panel are putting women and their doctors at risk, in addition to endangering the life-saving research and health care that they provide. Two weeks ago, the majority released a doctor and his clinic’s name, further endangering the individual, staff, and patients. The Panel has continued to encroach upon rules and practices of the House and the committee system. “The Panel still does not have any believable confirmation or evidence in support of its claim that federal laws were broken,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Yet the Chair, majority members, and staff continue to issue subpoenas, 36 so far, without asking for voluntary compliance first. This destructive behavior must be stopped, because of the lives that are at risk. The history of harassment and violence against doctors and clinics is clear – from regular picketing to vicious instances of gun violence. Congress has no business pursuing these unsubstantiated claims.” “I am deeply disappointed by the majority’s decision to continue down this road, despite knowing all the risks,” continued Congressman Cleaver. “The actions of the Select Panel must end; Speaker Ryan needs to disband this panel and halt these dangerous exploits without delay. The Panel is spending countless tax payer dollars on a baseless exploration that endangers women, scientists, health providers, and others involved in women's health care and research.” A copy of today’s letter can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce that several projects in the Kansas City area are included in the House version of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). WRDA legislation authorizes flood control and other water infrastructure projects conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers. It was a successful bipartisan effort on behalf of Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II and Congressman Sam Graves, (R-06). The two Missouri congressmen collaborated to advocate for three major flood control projects in the Kansas City metro: Kansas City Levees, Turkey Creek Basin, and Dodson Industrial District. The two sent a letter to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in March urging the committee to include authorization for these projects in the WRDA bill. You can read the letters here and here. “It’s been two years since we last passed a WRDA bill and I’m pleased to see that our efforts to make sure Kansas City projects were included in the House bill paid off,” said Congressman Cleaver. “These levee construction projects support local jobs and protect thousands of residents and billions in economic investments.” The target areas, prone to major flooding, would receive significant improvements: Kansas City Levees – These levees along the Missouri and Kansas Rivers provide critical flood project to the economic heart of Kansas City, protecting over 5,000 structures totaling over $20 billion in investments, plus serving as home to 24,000 people. Turkey Creek Basin Flood Project – Authorization for the final phases would widen the channel, relocate bridges, and include tunnel modifications to finish the project. Turkey Creek flows 15 miles through the Kansas City metro, and its frequent flooding poses serious risks to loss of life and residential and commercial areas. Blue River Basin Project in the Dodson Industrial District – Authorization for the final phase would complete this project and would include a 6,800 foot levee floodwall along the north bank of the Blue River, protecting over $380 million in property investment and the 1,500 people who work in the area. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cleaver said today that he was pleased to vote for a package of bipartisan initiatives that are designed to address the opioid epidemic, but is very concerned the package does not contain any funding to implement these initiatives. “Every day, 78 Americans die due to an opioid overdose,” Congressman Cleaver said. “This is a national epidemic. I am pleased that the House today has passed a package of bipartisan initiatives that are designed to address the crisis. However, the package of bills passed today are only authorizations. They do not contain any new funding for these initiatives. I will fight for adding new funding resources to address opioid addiction in the House-Senate conference committee.” Some of the bipartisan initiatives passed today include: Creating a Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction grant program, that would fund prevention, treatment, and recovery services to address opioid addiction. Cutting the risk of opioid addiction among veterans managing chronic pain. Improving the treatment and care of babies who are born addicted to opioids. Creating a grant program to help states increase access to naloxone, a lifesaving opioid overdose reversal drug. Providing information and resources to youth athletes and their families about the dangers of opioid use and abuse. “I am pleased that we have taken a first step today in addressing the terrible opioid crisis that is affecting tens of thousands of families across this country,” Rep. Cleaver said. “However, this is only a first step and there is much more that Congress must do. Over the next few weeks, I will fight hard to add real new funding resources to this authorization package, because it is only with this funding that we will actually begin to make a difference, save lives, and end the opioid addiction crisis.” ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II wants to remind citizens that during this time of the year, residents may receive phone calls from individuals claiming to be with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). This information from the IRS warns of continued scams and varied tactics. Even after the tax deadline passes, taxpayers should know the signs of a scam including those online. If you get a phone call from someone claiming to be from the IRS and asking for money and you don’t owe taxes, here’s what you should do: Do not give out any information. Hang up immediately. Contact TIGTA to report the call. Use their “IRS Impersonation Scam Reporting” web page or call 1-800-366-4484. Report it to the Federal Trade Commission. Use the “FTC Complaint Assistant” on FTC.gov. Please add “IRS Telephone Scam” in the notes. If you think you might owe taxes, call the IRS directly at 1-800-829-1040. By email, the scam artists will try to entice people to click on official-looking links. Report these emails to phishing@irs.gov. From the IRS website, the IRS Will Never; Call to demand immediate payment over the phone, nor will the agency call about taxes owed without first having mailed you a bill. Threaten to immediately bring in local police or other law-enforcement groups to have you arrested for not paying. Demand that you pay taxes without giving you the opportunity to question or appeal the amount they say you owe. Require you to use a specific payment method for your taxes, such as a prepaid debit card. Ask for credit or debit card numbers over the phone. If you feel that you have been the victim of an IRS impersonation scam, contact the above numbers. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Treasury Department has announced its decision to deny the Central States Pension Plan application for benefit suspension. Special Master Ken Feinberg announced the decision today due to the application not meeting the requirements set forth by the Kline-Miller Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014. The notification letter can be found here. Over 400,000 people from across several states who have vested millions of dollars into their pension funds have been told their benefits from the Central States Pension Fund would be drastically cut, some as much as by 60 percent. Congressman Cleaver has been working with hundreds of retirees who have written to his office seeking assistance and had hosted Treasury’s Kenneth Feinberg in February for a town hall with nearly 1,000 retirees from the region. “I am pleased that the Treasury Department has denied the Central States Pension Fund’s application to cut benefits for thousands of retirees. More time is needed for the Department of Justice to investigate the management of the fund – as I have called for – and for the Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation to continue. It is time for Central States Pension Fund to work with all of the stakeholders to find a responsible solution that saves the plan and protects benefits. We cannot turn our backs on the thousands of people who spent a lifetime building this nation. They deserve to enjoy the fruits of their labor in retirement,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. Congressman Cleaver’s original letter to the Department of Justice can be found here. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
05.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The following op-ed, written by Congressman Cleaver, appeared in the May 4, 2016 edition of The Hill. The Supreme Court is in the midst of deciding one of the most important immigration cases in years -- at stake is the unity of millions of families with undocumented members. And yet, the case will be heard with only 8 Supreme Court Justices. As of this week, it has been 48 days since President Barack Obama put for the nomination of Merrick Garland for the Supreme Court. Despite his long career and compelling credentials, Judge Garland is no closer today than he was on March 16th to being confirmed for the Supreme Court. Garland certainly does not lack credentials or ability, nor a record of expertise. He has no “activist” record. Garland’s nomination has been stalled as part of a concerted and cynical effort by the Republican Senate majority to ensure that no nomination, no matter how qualified, put forth by Pres. Obama is confirmed. This refusal to honor the Presidency of Barack Obama is, quite frankly, an insult. It’s also part of a pattern, a long string of incidents in which the far-right has refused to allow President Obama to do his job -- a history that has left us with dozens of vacancies across the federal courts. No other president has been faced with this reckless and disrespectful obstruction on a SCOTUS nomination. The Senate majority leader and many of his colleagues in “auto-obstruction’ mode” are more than happy to apply a different standard to President Obama. There will be much written by historians to analyze this politically untidy time and how the potty-mouth politics defined our era. Section 2 of Article II says the president "shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint . . . Judges of the Supreme Court." Can a job description be any clearer? The Senate is not a rubber stamp and through history we’ve seen contentious debates and drawn out processes of nomination. But, throughout the 240-year history of this country, we’ve always trusted this process and carried through with nominations in a timely manner. The constitution of this country states that the Senate is duty bound to carry out this process, but this Senate led by Sen. Mitch McConnell has taken it upon themselves to defy the constitution, because they are willing to put the desires of their party over the needs of our country. Quite simply, the highest court in the land must have its full complement of Justices to handle the weighty matters it must address! There is important business at hand, and it requires we have a full and confirmed Supreme Court to address it. Some of the most pressing issues of our time, Issues that affect real Americans are hanging in the balance. Issues that in my opinion, trump the concerns of Senators set on stalling, blocking and playing politics to get their way. In my great state of Missouri, we have tens of thousands of undocumented immigrants waiting to find out the fate of their family unity. We have women waiting to find out the fate of their birth control. And we are all anxious to move with the rest of the science believing world to reduce pollution and fossil fuels starting with the Clean Power Plan. No elected officials, in the greatest nation of the world, should degrade our democracy by claiming to have a duty to this country to stall…a duty to obstruct for the next nine months. However, a duty is something akin to a scared calling. Who wants their biography to read, “He or she had a sacred mandate to be political?” Is it a duty to the hardworking men and women of this country who deserve a fully staffed judicial branch? No, it’s simply their duty to ensure their party holds the cards. It has nothing to do with duty to country and everything to do with duty to self and duty to partisan priorities. The constitution is clear, the Senate is to “advise and consent.” I implore my colleagues in the Senate to think deeply and read the words of our foundational document and do their job, regardless of their feelings and why on this particular President. We need nine and we deserve nine, and we call on the Senate to hold hearings and uphold the only duty they’ve sworn to uphold-a duty to uphold the Constitution of the United States and serve this country. The original op-ed may be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
04.29.2016	Kansas City – The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress shows that one in every ten adults who are experiencing homelessness are veterans. “The good news is, veteran homelessness is declining, thanks to programs like this one. The Veterans Community Project not only creates homes for our veterans who have already given so much, but it creates hope and a new beginning,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. In late 2009, President Barack Obama and the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs announced a goal to end Veteran homelessness included in the Opening Doors Initiative. The federal strategy set a path to end all homelessness for families and children by 2020. On Monday, May 2, 2016, Congressman Cleaver will speak at the Veterans Community Project Dedication Ceremony for the first tiny house to be placed at Veterans Village near 89th and Troost, 1201 East 89th Street in Kansas City, Mo. A four-acre Land Trust parcel is the site for dozens of tiny houses to be built exclusively for veterans who are experiencing homelessness. WHEN: Monday, May 2, 2016 TIME: Media preview and tour will begin at 8:30 a.m. Ceremony to begin at 9:00 a.m. WHERE: 1201 East 89th Street, Kansas City, MO 64131 For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce the introduction of House Resolution 696 honoring the heritage of jazz in the United States. Congressman Cleaver, along with Congressman Cedric L. Richmond (LA-02), introduced the resolution in the House of Representatives this afternoon, which acknowledges the seeds of jazz and its evolution into a signature American sound. Kansas City, Missouri, is known as the place where musical geniuses, such as Charles “Yard Bird” Parker, Count Basie, Mary Lou Williams and countless others, lived and perfected their style of jazz in the historic 18th and Vine District. New Orleans, Louisiana, is known as the place where jazz was born when West African slave rhythms were combined with the harmonic hymns of the church. Melodies were performed in areas such as the famed Congo Square in as early as the 1900’s. “’I’m going to Kansas City, Kansas City here I come,’ is one of the most recognized lyrics around the world, because everyone knows that Kansas City is where jazz grew up, and I’m glad it will forever be acknowledged as the home of this musical phenomenon,” said Congressman Cleaver. “The sound of brass horns and piano keys are the heartbeat of New Orleans,” said Congressman Richmond. “Since its birth in the French Quarter over 200 years ago, jazz has carried the sound and spirit of the city all over the world. I’m proud that this musical marvel will live on and with it the creativity and soul of its origins.” A copy of the resolution can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As we mark Equal Pay Day today, Congressman Cleaver is once again calling for the passage of the critical Paycheck Fairness Act, highlighting that more needs to be done to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men. Equal Pay Day symbolizes when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. “According to the National Women’s Law Center, the women in our state of Missouri still earn only 77.4 cents for every dollar earned by men,” said Congressman Cleaver. “And nationwide women earn only 79 cents for every dollar earned by men, putting Missouri behind the national average, despite the fact that the Equal Pay Act will mark its 53nd anniversary in June. Indeed, a new study finds that women won’t see pay equity with men until 2059 based on the rate that the pay gap has been closing since 1960.” “Today, women make up about half of the workforce and it’s wrong that on average they are still being paid less than men,” Congressman Cleaver pointed out. “A woman deserves equal pay for equal work. While women’s role in our economy has changed dramatically, America’s workplaces have simply not kept up.” “I am a proud cosponsor, along with every other House Democrat, of the critical Paycheck Fairness Act, which is designed to help women finally achieve equal pay for equal work, by strengthening and closing loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963,” Congressman Cleaver stated. The Paycheck Fairness Act is a central pillar of the House Democrats’ When Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families. Among its many provisions, it prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers; requires employers to show that pay disparity is truly job-related, not based on gender; strengthens remedies for women experiencing pay discrimination; and empowers women in the workplace through a grant program to strengthen salary negotiation and other workplace skills. “This Equal Pay Day, I am calling on all Members of Congress to start working together to do something real about closing the wage gap – by taking up the Paycheck Fairness Act for full consideration,” Congressman Cleaver concluded. “Equal pay is not simply a woman’s issue – it is a family issue. When women bring home less money each day, it means they have less for the everyday needs of their families. We should not rest until we achieve true pay equity for women – ensuring that all American women in the workforce are receiving equal pay for equal work.” ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
04.11.2016	Annabelle Cash, winner of this year's Congressional Art Competition, with Congressman and Mrs. Cleaver Congratulations to winner Annabelle Cash, a senior at Blue Springs High School in Blue Springs, MO. Her painting entitled, “Grandma” won First Place in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition, “A Voyage of Artistic Discovery” sponsored by the Congressional Institute. High school students from Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II’s 5th Congressional District submitted over 200 pieces of their artwork this year. Congressman Cleaver and wife, Dianne, hosted the annual event which recognizes and showcases young talent. "We want to use this opportunity to lift up to the rest of the world these talented young people of Kansas City," said Mrs. Cleaver. "I mean these are high school students! Their work is amazing," Congressman Cleaver added. Cash’s painting, “Grandma” will hang inside the Cannon Tunnel at US Capitol Building for one year. In addition, she will receive; Two Southwest Airlines vouchers to attend the National Reception in Washington, D.C. A Full Tuition Scholarship for a Pre-College Art Lab, valued at $2,799, at the Kansas City Art Institute A Partial Scholarship to Savannah College of Arts and Design in Savannah, GA. A panel of 13 judges selected the First through Fifth Place and Honorable Mention winners for the competition held at the Kansas City Public Library this past Saturday, April 9, 2016. The Second through Fifth Place winners each received $179 certificates for one fine arts class at the Kansas City Art Institute. The Honorable Mention winner received a $50 gift card to Creative-Coldsnow Artist Materials. All of the remaining winners’ artwork will be displayed at the Crossroads First Friday event held May 6th at the Bauer Building. The winners are: Second Place – Roxanne Reasco, Pembroke Hill High School, “Laundry before bike ride” Third Place – Nayoung Kwon, Barstow School, “Tragedies” Fourth Place – Michael Artis, Lee’s Summit High School, “Untitled” Fifth Place – Eleanor Grever, St. Teresa’s Academy, “Crossroads” Honorable Mention – Aurora Logan, Lafayette County C-1 High School in Higginsville, MO, “I’m a Survivor” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
04.04.2016	Each Spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation in each congressional district. This year, students from the 5th Congressional District have submitted over 200 art entries in the competition entitled, “A Voyage of Artistic Discovery”. “I am eager to recognize and showcase the artistic talent of high school students in my Congressional District and across the country,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. The announcement of the top artist will take place on Saturday, April 9, 2016, at the Kansas City Public Library. Students submitted entries to Congressman Cleaver’s office in March. A panel of local artists will select the winning entries which are then displayed for one year at the US Capitol. The art will be on display at the Kansas City Library until April 16, 2016. Who: High School Students in Congressman Cleaver’s 5th Congressional District What: Congressional Art Competition, “A Voyage of Artistic Discovery”, Viewing and Announcement of Winner When: Saturday, April 9, 2016 Reception at 1:30 p.m. Program at 2:00 p.m. Where: Kansas City Public Library, 14 West 10th Street, Kansas City, MO Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
04.04.2016	Sometimes, those in Congress can play well together. Especially when they come together for a common good. A good example of that was this Sunday on Opening Day for the World Champion Kansas City Royals. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) and Congressman Kevin Yoder (R-KS) helped kick off the “Relay the Way” event this weekend in Kansas City - a fundraising effort for the Urban Youth Baseball Academy. Over 2500 people formed a line stretching nearly 10 miles to throw the ceremonial first pitch ball from Union Station, near downtown Kansas City, to Kauffman Stadium. “I’m glad Congressman Yoder and I were able to participate in this event along with hundreds of others. This effort crossed party lines to raise money for children in Kansas City’s urban core. During difficult times in Congress, it’s days like this that remind us that we are all on the same team,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “I always enjoy spending time with my friend Congressman Cleaver and it was especially great to do it yesterday celebrating a new season for our World Series Champion Royals and raising awareness for the KC Urban Youth Academy. It was a great day for Kansas City that was capped off with a great win for the Royals,” said Congressman Yoder. In a rematch of last year's World Series teams, the Royals defeated the New York Mets 4-3. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, President Obama announced that he is nominating D.C. Circuit Court Chief Judge Merrick Garland to serve as the next Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. Congressman Cleaver called on the Senate to hold a fair hearing and timely vote on Judge Garland’s nomination to the Supreme Court. “With the nomination of Chief Judge Merrick Garland, President Obama has selected a widely-admired and deeply-experienced jurist with a sterling judicial record,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I urge the Senate to give a fair hearing and timely vote to Chief Judge Garland – a judge who has demonstrated that he has the wisdom, legal expertise, and dedication to the Constitution to be an exceptional Supreme Court Justice.” Having served on the D.C. Court of Appeals since 1997 – and as Chief Judge for over three years – Judge Garland boasts more experience as a federal judge than any other Supreme Court nominee in history. Throughout his career, Judge Garland has won bipartisan praise as a consensus builder – earning a robust, bipartisan 76-23 confirmation to the D.C. Circuit Court. Republican Senator Orrin Hatch, the former Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, called Judge Garland a “consensus nominee” for the Supreme Court, and asserted that Judge Garland “would be very well supported by all sides.” The Senate has ample time to give Judge Merrick Garland a fair hearing and a timely vote: There are over 300 days until the next President takes office. Since the 1980s, every person appointed to the Court has been given a prompt hearing and vote within 100 days. And, nearly 60 percent of Americans believe “the Senate should hold hearings and vote on President Obama’s SCOTUS nominee”. Moreover, there is clear precedent for confirming a nominee in an election year, even when the Senate is not controlled by the President’s party. Six Justices have been confirmed in presidential election years, including three Republican nominees. Indeed, the most recent was nominated by the Republicans and confirmed by the Democrats. Another 11 have been confirmed in non-Presidential election years. “A Supreme Court Justice nomination is not only the President’s duty but his responsibility to the American people to fully staff the highest court of the nation. It is my hope that Senate Republicans set aside partisan divisions and consider the nomination before them.” Congressman Cleaver continued. “There is important work before the Supreme Court, and now the Senate must fulfill its constitutional responsibility to give Judge Garland a fair hearing and a timely vote,” Congressman Cleaver concluded. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Missouri Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-05) and Congressman Sam Graves, (R-06) collaborated to advance four major flood control projects in the Kansas City metro: Kansas City Levees, Turkey Creek Basin, Dodson Industrial District, and Swope Park Industrial Area. The two sent a letter to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure urging the committee to include authorization for these projects in the upcoming Water Resources Development Act, (WRDA). You can read the letters here and here. “These flood control projects are critical to the safety and security of each and every Kansas Citian. I am glad that Congressman Graves and I were able to work together on this issue that has little to do with party affiliation, but more to do with preventing potential disasters and saving lives in Kansas City,” said Congressman Cleaver. "Kansas City has become the economic hub of the Midwest, with hundreds of businesses and thousands of jobs coming here every year," Congressman Graves said. "We depend on the levees along the Missouri and Kansas Rivers, however, to protect the investments Kansas City has made in industry and infrastructure. Thanks to support from Rep. Cleaver, myself, and people across the region, I am confident these levees will get the attention they need to protect our homes, our businesses, and our economic security." These target areas, prone to major flooding, would receive significant improvements: *Kansas City Levees – placing both phase 1 and phase 2 under one authorization will improve management efficiency and treat the projects as one levee system. These levees along the Missouri and Kansas Rivers provide critical flood project to the economic heart of Kansas City, protecting over 5,000 structures totaling over $20 billion in investments, plus serving as home to 24,000 people. *Authorization for the final phases of the Turkey Creek Basin Flood Project – which would widen the channel, relocate bridges, and include tunnel modifications to finish the project. Turkey Creek flows 15 miles through the Kansas City metro, and its frequent flooding poses serious risks to loss of life and residential and commercial areas. *The Blue River Basin Project in the Dodson Industrial District would include a 6,800 foot levee floodwall along the north bank of the Blue River, protecting over $380 million in property investment and the 1,500 people who work in the area. Authorization for the final phase would complete this project. *A safe emergency access road to the Swope Park Industrial Area - currently, only one access road exists into the business park. The project will provide flooding relief and a safe passage for the 400 workers in the industrial area. ### For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This month, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II will join millions across the nation in the annual celebration of Women’s History Month. Since the first commemoration in 1987, the month of March has been set aside to recognize women who have contributed to and sacrificed for our nation. Clara Barton, the founder of the American Red Cross; American Poet Maya Angelou, and young Malala Yousafzai, who fought for her right to an education, despite a bullet piercing her skull, are just a few of the women we celebrate. “I have been blessed to spend my life around strong women – my mother, my sisters, my wife and my daughter, among them,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Women have made great strides, but there are still those threatening to dismantle all their hard fought benefits and rights.” Despite the progress that has been made, American women on average still earn only 79 cents for every dollar earned by men. Sadly, the United States continues to be the only developed country that does not ensure paid sick days or paid maternity leave. Congressman Cleaver continues to work on issues important to women - important to Americans. He voted against the 63rd attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the failed override of the President’s veto of the Republican Reconciliation Bill. This repeal would have defunded Planned Parenthood, ending access for many to significant key preventative health services including life-saving cancer screenings, well-women exams, birth control and advice on family planning. “Make no mistake, we cannot allow the same old toxic attacks on women’s access to health care and on working families to continue,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Let us join together this month to make America better for our daughters and granddaughters so they may enjoy the equal treatment and equal opportunities they deserve.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov.
02.26.2016	Congressman Cleaver meets with Thai Ambassador Pisan Manawapat this week in Washington. Washington D.C. – The Environmental Justice Foundation speaks of cases of migrant workers who have been trafficked into Thailand and forced to work on shrimp and fishing vessels. Some of them have not received wages for years and are unable to escape this form of slavery. Addressing human rights violations, human trafficking, and child labor abuses is an issue Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) has long been concerned about. Most recently, in December of 2015, Congressman Cleaver wrote to the Labor Department and the Food and Drug Administration demanding investigations and called on them to take all "administrative actions available" to punish American companies linked to slave labor in Thailand’s seafood industry. In the letter, dated December 16, 2015, Congressman Cleaver wrote, “I am deeply concerned for the welfare of adult and children shrimp peelers in Thailand who are forced to work in one of the most abhorrent slavery schemes of the 21st century… I urge that more should be done. I respectfully request that the US Food and Drug Administration and the US Department of Labor launch full investigations into US companies doing business with Thai shrimp processors known to be associated with slavery.” Just this week, Congressman Cleaver met with Thai Ambassador Pisan Manawapat and had a productive discussion about these critical issues. Ambassador Manawapat shared the administrative efforts that Thailand has made since Congressman Cleaver originally called for an investigation in 2015. In their meeting, Ambassador Manawapat informed Congressman Cleaver that Thailand has stepped up the monitoring of living and working conditions of those at sea, banned employment of workers below the age of 18, and has enhanced their enforcement efforts across the industry. “I was pleased to hear this week that President Obama has directed his Administration to enforce a ban on importing goods made by children and or slaves under new provisions of a law signed by the President,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Seafood produced by slaves in Thailand will be among those goods banned from sale in the United States. It is important to know that the United States will no longer contribute to this form of labor abuse.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
02.12.2016	Retired workers in Missouri will have the opportunity to share their concerns with Ken Feinberg, the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Special Master for the implementation of the Kline-Miller Law. Over 400,000 people from across several states who have vested millions of dollars into their pension funds have been told that their benefits from the Central States Pension Fund would be drastically cut, some as much as by 60 percent. People who have saved all of their working lives for this moment of retirement are now finding out that there is not enough to fund their pensions. U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II has been working with hundreds of retirees who have written to his office seeking his assistance. Cleaver sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew asking that Ken Feinberg visit Kansas City. We are pleased that the Department of Treasury has listened and has agreed to send Mr. Feinberg to our area to address the 32,000 people affected here in Missouri. A Town Hall Meeting has been set for Tuesday, February 16, 2016 4:30 p.m. CST at the Downtown Convention Center 301 W. 13th Street, Kansas City, MO 64105 Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at heather.frierson@mail.house.gov or 816-842-4545.
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the White House sent President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget request to Congress. Congressman Cleaver applauded the President for putting forward a budget that builds the foundation for a strong American future – investing in innovation for the 21st century, advancing a world-class education system, and empowering hard-working families. “Make no mistake, the President has presented a bold, forward-looking plan for the future: a budget that creates good-paying jobs, fuels innovation, education, and infrastructure, and strengthens our national security,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Building on the framework of the bipartisan budget agreement signed into law last fall, this budget charts an aggressive, new course for American job growth and prosperity.” The President’s budget request makes key investments to grow the economy and expand opportunity for hard-working Americans in the 21st century: Innovation to Forge A Better Future: create the industries and good-paying jobs of the future, doubling investment in clean energy research and development, embracing 21st century transportation infrastructure, and launching Vice President Biden’s Moonshot to end cancer; Education to Expand Opportunity: strengthen Pell Grants for striving students, expand early childhood education, invest in job training and apprenticeships to help all workers get the skills they need for the 21st century economy; Empower Hard-Working Families: expand tax credits for hard-working families, increase access to quality child care, expand paid leave, enact comprehensive immigration reform and help workers save more for a secure and comfortable retirement; Protect Police and Communities: ensure $30 million in funding for police body camera programs as one part of a broader solution to keep our communities safe, promote accountability, and protect the rights of all parties involved, something Congressman Cleaver succeeded in having included in the current 2016 omnibus spending bill; Commemoration of World War I: guarantee that the World War I Centennial Commission has proper funding as it prepares to observe and memorialize the War’s centenary, including the kick-off of America’s involvement in the Great War in April 2017 in Kansas City at the National World War I Museum and Memorial; Enhance Transit Services: provide $30 million in funding for the development of Prospect MAX bus rapid transit service on Prospect Avenue between downtown and 75th Street in Kansas City. “I am very pleased that body camera funding, support for the World War I Centennial Commission, and Prospect MAX funding are all included in the President’s budget, as they are items I have worked hard to ensure were included. I will continue to embrace the possibility of America and work to secure a strong future of prosperity and opportunity for our seniors and hard-working families.” continued Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact Heather Frierson – heather.frierson@mail.house.gov or (816) 842-4545.
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II praised today's announcement by Google Fiber and Secretary Julian Castro of the U.S. Housing and Urban Development regarding the access of free internet services to several residents in Kansas City's public housing. The digital divide is an issue Congressman Cleaver has been working tenaciously to close as the Ranking Member of the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee on Financial Services. Just over a year ago, Congressman Cleaver and Secretary Castro met to discuss affordable internet services for all who need it, especially those in low and moderate income housing. Last July, President Obama and Secretary Castro announced a new initiative, called ConnectHome, to target broadband access to assisted housing units in 28 communities in our country. Kansas City was chosen as one of the demonstration cities. In a letter to Google executive Larry Page, dated one year ago this week, Congressman Cleaver wrote: “Today I’m writing to request that Google take additional steps to assist in closing the digital divide in Kansas City. I urge Google to sit down with local Kansas City Housing Authority officials to develop a strategy to help us reach the project’s ultimate goal of connecting our under-served residents. I have also made requests to Kansas City Housing Authority to sit down with a diverse group of community stakeholders, including Google, to work to address the KC digital divide.” The full text of the letter is available here. Today's news about Google Fiber providing free gigabit service to residents of West Bluff Apartments and their commitment to add four additional Kansas City Housing Authority complexes to its program is a significant step in bridging our digital divide. This effort will benefit over 200,000 residents nationally by providing computers, free super-fast internet service and computer literacy training. The Congressman will continue to push to see additional communities served in this manner as he believes access to high-speed internet is no longer a luxury but a necessity in our current global economy. For more information, please see past press releases: Press Release: Congressman Cleaver Announces Kansas City as New Location for HUD Digital Divide Project Press Release: Congressman Cleaver Works to Close the Digital Divide, Expand Internet Access in Low-Income Communities ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information, please contact Heather Frierson at 816-842-4545 or Heather.Frierson@mail.house.gov
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, on Groundhog Day, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) voted against the 63rd attempt to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act, as well as against the 12th endeavor to attack women’s health care in the 114th Congress alone. Congressman Cleaver voted against these latest Republican efforts, and called on Republicans to drop their repeated attempts to take away health care from women and hard-working Americans. “For too long, the American people have been caught under the shadow of this radical agenda,” said Congressman Cleaver. “And we cannot allow the same old toxic attacks on women’s access to health care and on working families with health insurance to continue.” Today, House Republicans failed in their Groundhog Day attempt to override the President’s veto of their radical reconciliation bill, which would have: Defunded Planned Parenthood, leaving millions of American women without key preventive health services – including life-saving cancer screenings, well-woman exams, birth control and advice on family planning; and Destroyed the Affordable Care Act, dismantling the newfound health and economic security of millions of working families. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the Republican Reconciliation bill would have taken away health insurance from 22 million Americans after 2017. “Unfortunately, the House is stuck on an endless cycle of repeat, voting over and over on a radical agenda that will never become law,” continued Congressman Cleaver. “The American people can’t afford to relive another hyper-partisan Groundhog Day. Rather than wasting time on dead-end votes to attack women’s health and the health care of hard-working families, it’s time Congress got to work on creating jobs and growing opportunity for working people.” The veto-override failed the House 246-181. 290 votes are required to override a Presidential veto. # # # Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact Heather Frierson – heather.frierson@mail.house.gov or (816) 842-4545.
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce the passage of H.R. 3700, “The Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act of 2015”. A remarkable bipartisan effort by Rep. Cleaver and Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), this bill is one of the largest sweeping reforms of our nation’s housing programs in the last two decades. H.R. 3700 passed the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon by a vote of 427-0. "This bill serves as an example of bipartisanship compromise. As someone who grew up in public housing, I know personally the importance of having a safe, affordable home,” said Rep. Cleaver. “I am pleased that my colleagues and I were able to successfully pass a piece of legislation that will make important reforms to our public housing programs and strengthen rural housing services.” “After many discussions and hearings, I am pleased the House of Representatives passed legislation that takes the first step in changing our nation’s housing policies. I look forward to continuing to work with my friend and colleague from Missouri on critical housing issues,” added Rep. Luetkemeyer. H.R. 3700 would improve and create additional efficiency in our housing programs for low-income families. It will also help reduce homelessness for individuals, including our veterans, and provide stronger support for foster children who need housing. This bill would: Streamline the inspection and income review process for families living in Section 8 units. Increase aid to former foster care children receiving housing assistance through the Family Unification Program by extending the age of eligibility from 21 years to 24 and by increasing the time of assistance to 36 months. Improve condo ownership opportunities through improvements to the FHA mortgage insurance program. Increase access to rural housing loans for low and moderate income households to purchase, build, or rehab homes. Support our veterans through the appointment of a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs in the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Our nation faces tremendous housing needs. This legislation is an important step forward to improving our housing programs and helping our communities. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact Heather Frierson – heather.frierson@mail.house.gov or (816) 842-4545.
01.28.2016	Congressman Cleaver joins World War I reenactors at the World War I Centennial Commission's announcement on Tuesday. The U.S. World War I Centennial Commission presented its selection for a second national WWI memorial to be constructed at Pershing Park in Washington, DC. The winning design for the WWI memorial, is entitled "The Weight of Sacrifice" by Joseph Weishaar and Sabin Howard. More information can be found at https://www.worldwar1centennial.org/. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II participated in the announcement at the National Press Club in Washington, DC on Tuesday, January 26, 2016. “The announcement of the winning design brings us one step closer to fulfilling something, 100 years, long overdue in constructing a memorial to honor the brave veterans of WWI in our nation’s capital. Congratulations to the winning design team, I look forward to working with you and the Commission on this project,” said Rep. Cleaver. Previously recognized by Congress as America's official WWI Museum, the National WWI Museum and Memorial, located in Kansas City, Missouri, received national memorial designation in legislation passed by Congress initiated by Rep. Cleaver. The same status was also granted in that legislation to the future memorial at Pershing Park. The National World War I Museum and Memorial is America's leading institution dedicated to remembering, interpreting and understanding the Great War and its enduring impact on the global community. The museum holds the most diverse collection of WWI objects and documents in the world and is the second-oldest public museum dedicated to preserving the objects, history and experiences of the war. "The National World War I Museum and Memorial applauds the U.S. World War I Centennial Commission for their diligent efforts to create another national memorial to the 4.7 million Americans who bravely served in the Great War. Like the existing national memorial in Kansas City, upon its completion, the new memorial in Washington, D.C., will play a crucial role in educating the public about the Great War's profound and enduring impact. Given the richness of history in the region, it's absolutely fitting that a national memorial exist in Washington, D.C.," said the National World War I Museum and Memorial President & CEO, Dr. Matthew Naylor. To learn more, visit www.theworldwar.org. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact Heather Frierson – heather.frierson@mail.house.gov or (816) 842-4545.
12.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Cleaver sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Tom Wheeler, urging him to structure the upcoming Connect America Fund Phase II reverse auction for broadband access so that funding is made available on a priority basis for fiber to the home networks. Approximately $400 million in funding for broadband in the State of Missouri will be awarded to broadband providers in a reverse auction that is expected to take place in 2016. “There is a rural digital divide in our country and the gap should not be narrowed with satellite or unlicensed fixed-wireless networks,” said Congressman Cleaver. “This is a once in a decade opportunity for Missouri to bring ultra-fast fiber to rural residents, especially in areas where large private companies have declined their right of first refusal to accept model-based support. Satellite or fixed-wireless access will not meet the needs of our rural residents, either now or in the future.” Broadband services that are available in rural areas are not reasonably comparable to those offered in urban areas. Roughly 10% of the rural population in the country has wireline upload speeds of 10 Mbps or greater, as compared with 53% in the urban areas. Many of Missouri’s Electric Cooperatives are ready to fill this digital divide with future-proof fiber optic networks that will increase rural download speeds so businesses can thrive and compete. Five Missouri Electric Cooperatives are actively deploying fiber to the home (FTTH) networks today, proving this is possible in rural areas. More cooperatives are expressing interest in deploying broadband, and accessing the CAF auction funds. Missouri Electric Cooperatives together own over 15,000 miles of fiber optic networks and have the technical and financial qualifications to bring broadband to all rural areas in Missouri. Giving Missouri a chance to lead the country with FTTH networks will ensure the viability of communities through education, access to government services, job opportunities, and business attraction. Rural Missouri’s future economic growth potential depends on this auction being structured correctly. The FCC has a chance to be forward thinking and help to bridge the digital divide in rural areas of Missouri with fiber optic networks. Missouri’s rural fiber networks will be the example for how the rest of the country can narrow the digital divide fairly. Full text of the Congressman’s letter is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce that the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, more commonly referred to as the omnibus spending bill, includes $22.5 million for police body cameras. In January, Congressman Cleaver wrote a letter to President Obama urging him to promote funding for body cameras as a result of the continual unrest in Ferguson, Missouri, and alleged police misconduct across the country. Full text of that letter is available here. This inclusion of funding comes on the heels of H. Res. 295, passed by the House in June, of which Congressman Cleaver was an original cosponsor. H. Res. 295 expresses the sense of Congress in support of local law enforcement agencies and their continued work to serve our communities, specifically supporting their use of body worn cameras. These body cameras serve to promote transparency to protect both citizens and officers. “From the death of Michael Brown last year in Ferguson, to the tragic murder of Walter Scott in North Charleston, South Carolina, and the death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore this spring, now more than ever, the public has called for reform and accountability,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Body cameras will serve to increase transparency. Both the police and the public benefit when the police have the best tools and training to fulfill their mission. Body cameras are one part of a much broader solution in police reform.” Congressman Cleaver has made policing reform a core goal in the 114th Congress, and he is pleased that bipartisan leaders have realized the importance of encouraging police officers to utilize body cameras as they work to keep our communities safe and promote accountability. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Cleaver (MO-05) sent a letter to Secretary of Labor Tom Perez and Acting Commissioner of Food and Drugs Dr. Stephen Ostroff, calling on them to investigate slave-peeled shrimp in Thailand, which is entering the United States’ food supply. Recent reports from the United Nations, the European Union, the US State Department, and international labor organizations have all detailed the repugnant use of slave labor in the Thai shrimp processing industry. A detailed report released by the Associated Press this week revealed particularly illustrative and gruesome testimony of former slave workers: human trafficking, forced labor, debt bondages, filthy sub-human working conditions, child endangerment, unlivable wages, and even death. “I am deeply concerned for the welfare of adult and children shrimp peelers in Thailand, who are forced to work in one of the most abhorrent slavery schemes of the 21st century,” said Congressman Cleaver, “The list of human rights violations is both extensive and foul. While human trafficking and forced labor are not unique to Thailand, the reports concerning the shrimp peeling industry in Thailand are impossible to ignore. And what is perhaps most troubling is the alleged involvement of United States corporations in the operation.” United States Customs records show that Thai shrimp imported from slavery tainted supply lines has made its way into United States restaurants, universities, hospitals, pet stores, and some of the United States’ largest retailers. While some American companies such as Nestle have cut ties with Thai processors associated with slavery, others have admitted to a lack of awareness. Although international actors have begun to take steps to address the injustices, Congressman Cleaver believes that there is much more that the United States can do. “I respectfully request that the FDA and DOL launch full investigations into US companies doing business with Thai shrimp processors known to be associated with slavery,” continued Congressman Cleaver, “and implement the administrative actions that are available to punish companies that associate themselves with slave labor.” In order to compensate for the State Department’s inability to institute an outright ban on importing shrimp processed by forced labor, other agencies can and must increase transparency and accountability in the Thai Shrimp distribution chain. “This year our country celebrated the 150th Anniversary of the passage of the 13th Amendment; an amendment formally abolishing slavery in the United States,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “Although the horrors of slavery in our country are generations prior, there are those in Thailand who will wake up tomorrow to experience this nightmare for themselves. We cannot abolish slavery from our own front yard only to see similar crimes against humanity supported in the yard of our neighbors.” Full text of the Congressman’s letter is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Cleaver took action to force a vote on commonsense, life-saving legislation to keep guns and explosives out of the hands of terrorists. After House Republicans voted three times last week to block the House from debating H.R. 1076, Republican Congressman Peter King’s “Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act”, Congressman Cleaver signed a discharge petition that would bring this critical legislation immediately up for a vote. The bill would close the dangerous loophole that allows suspected terrorists on the FBI’s Terrorist Watchlist to legally buy deadly weapons. “The refusal to close the loophole that lets suspected terrorists legally buy guns is unconscionable and indefensible,” said Congressman Cleaver. “As Members of Congress, our first responsibility is to protect and defend the American people – and that is why we must take urgent and commonsense action to keep deadly firearms and explosives out of the hands of terrorists.” According to a report by the Government Accountability Office, since 2004, more than 2,000 suspects on the FBI’s Terrorist Watchlist have successfully purchased weapons in the United States. More than 90 percent of all suspected terrorists who attempted to purchase guns in the last 11 years walked away with the weapon they wanted, with just 190 rejected despite their ominous histories. “In the aftermath of the horrific attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, we must continue to strengthen our efforts to protect the American people,” continued Congressman Cleaver. “Our first priority should be to close the exceedingly dangerous terrorist gun loophole and ensure that no suspected terrorist can walk into a gun store and legally purchase a deadly weapon.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
12.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II announced his intention to bring awareness to criminal “government grant scams” that prey on vulnerable Americans. Government grant scams have been around for years and continue to exist partly because many people lack experience with grant systems and procedures. In a common government grant scam a caller will 1) claim to be from a legitimate sounding organization that often does not exist such as the “Federal Grant Association” 2) tell their potential victims that they qualify for government grant money and 3) will request either a bank account number, or that the potential victim sends a payment in order to process the grant. A criminal may also publish an advertisement in local papers, or magazines in order to solicit additional victims. Make no mistake, these “free” money grant schemes are undeniably scams. Congressman Cleaver urges the public to protect sensitive personal information at all times, especially around the holiday season when scam activity appears to increase. If you believe you may be the victim of a government grant scam, or any other related scam, please report the incident to the Federal Trade Commission at 1-866-653-4261 or toll-free at 1-877-FTC-HELP. The Federal Trade Commission is aware of government grant scams and has urged the public to not pay any money to receive “free” government grants. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
12.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05) hosted a tele townhall, calling upwards of 50,000 of his constituents, to discuss the rising costs of prescription drugs in this country. He firmly believes that prescription drugs need to be made available and affordable to all people. As a result of the Affordable Care Act, over 9.4 million seniors and people with disabilities have saved over $15 billion on prescription drugs, an average savings of $1,598 per senior. Currently, the rising cost of prescription drug constitute the fastest growing sector of health care costs in our country, which is burdening our budget and the pocketbooks of millions of seniors and families across America. Joining Congressman Cleaver on the call was K.J. Hertz from AARP, who helped answer constituents’ questions. Mr. Hertz represents AARP and promotes its priorities before Congress and the Administration on a variety of health and aging policy issues including Medicaid, issues affecting the Medicare-Medicaid dual-eligible population, the Older Americans Act, and prescription drug and medical device issues. Recently, Pfizer and Allergen, two of the largest prescription drug companies in the country, announced their merger. Congressman Cleaver, along with the millions of senior citizens in this country, is apprehensive over how this merger will affect the cost of prescription drugs. Congressman Cleaver pledges to remain vigilant and will continue to work to make prescription drugs more affordable and accessible for our nation’s seniors. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) voted with 312 other Democratic and Republican colleagues in the House to pass H.R. 597, a bipartisan bill to reauthorize the job-creating Export-Import Bank. The Export-Import Bank helps level the playing field for American manufacturers and small businesses hoping to compete and sell their goods in foreign markets to succeed in the global economy. At absolutely no cost to taxpayers, the bank directly supported 164,000 American export-related jobs in the last year alone, and has created or sustained 1.5 million private sector jobs since 2007 including supporting 125 companies and 9,397 jobs in Missouri alone. “It has been nearly four months since the charter for the Export-Import Bank expired. Four months of lost economic opportunity for businesses large and small in the 5th District and across Missouri,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Last night, I stood with virtually all my Democratic colleagues and over 120 Republicans proudly voted to pass this bipartisan bill.” On October 9, after months of inaction by House Republican leaders, Congressman Cleaver along with 175 Democrats and 42 Republicans took historic action and signed a discharge petition to force the House Republican leadership to bring H.R. 597, reauthorizing the Ex-Im Bank, to a vote. Monday night, the House voted to discharge the bill and begin debate on the legislation. Yesterday, the House passed the bill by a vote of 313-118. “The American manufacturers and small businesses that the Ex-Im Bank supports are the backbone of the American economy. Missouri businesses, workers and the communities they support will benefit from the Bank’s reauthorization. That we had to literally force this critical legislation to the floor with a rarely successful procedural measure is disappointing,” said Congressman Cleaver. “But I am glad that a number of my colleagues finally put partisan politics aside to work together to send this bipartisan bill to the Senate and then onto the President for his signature.” ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
10.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, CongressmanEmanuel Cleaver (D-MO) and Congressman Joe Crowley (D-NY), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, announced they have placed a friendly wager on the World Series between the New York Mets and the Kansas City Royals. If the Royals win, Crowley, who represents Citi Field, will provide Cleaver with Italian ice from the Lemon Ice King of Corona and heroes from Mama’s of Corona. If the Mets win, Cleaver will provide Crowley with a President’s BBQ Platter from Kansas City’s own Gates Bar-B-Q. “The New York Mets are a worthy team, but they underestimate the Kansas City Royals at their peril,” said Congressman Cleaver. “With their spirit, their skill, and their victory in the ALCS, the Royals will surely succeed in the World Series. I don’t usually gamble, but I will make an exception and wager some of the finest barbecue Kansas City, Missouri has to offer. Victory shall be sweet indeed.” “Congressman Cleaver is my respected colleague, my good friend, and my mentor. But that won’t stop me from saying that I can’t wait to see the disappointment on his face when the Mets win the World Series,” said Congressman Crowley. “The Amazin’ Mets have had an amazing season, and I can’t wait to celebrate a big Mets victory with a little Kansas City BBQ!” The Royals will host the Mets on Tuesday night at Kauffman Stadium in Game 1 of the best-of-seven World Series. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
10.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) sent a letter to Drug Enforcement Administration Administrator Chuck Rosenberg regarding the danger of a new drug by the name of Alpha-PVP, also known as Flakka. It is a threatening drug that has taken lives and endangers countless more. The devastating effects that this drug could and is having on communities across the country are serious, and the number of violent incidents that have resulted from people using this drug continues to increase. Currently incidents involving Flakka are prevalent in areas throughout the Southeastern and Midwestern regions of the United States, with substantiated fears of drug use spreading throughout the rest of the country. “It is of paramount importance that we protect communities from this deplorable drug,” said Congressman Cleaver in his letter. “It is my hope that you will do all that is in your power to prevent this drug from spreading any further than it already has. To that point, I am urging the DEA to take the necessary steps to prevent internet distributors from selling Flakka to persons in the United States, including working with credit card companies and online retailers to block sales of this dangerous product. It is imperative that the DEA continue working diligently -- and if needed work with other federal agencies -- to halt all online transactions as quickly as possible.” In 2015 alone more than two dozen people have died from Flakka-related incidents, with that number expected to rise. Addiction is a serious concern, putting those individuals at an extreme risk of death. Flakka is said to be just as addictive as cocaine but even more dangerous. According to reports, despite its illegality, foreign companies still sell Flakka online. Unfortunately, their laboratories have become a source for drug cartels in North and Central America. Full text of the letter is available here. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
09.28.2015	KANSAS CITY, MO – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) is pleased to join Secretary Julian Castro of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in announcing a $30 million Choice Neighborhoods Initiative Implementation Grant for the Housing Authority of Kansas City (HAKC) and the City of Kansas City. “I am thrilled that our community will be a recipient of the Choice Neighborhoods grant,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “This is a reflection of the strong collaborative spirit of many individuals and organizations in our community. The $30 million will serve as a catalyst towards revitalizing the Paseo Gateway neighborhood and will bring much needed resources and opportunities to its residents. I am proud to have supported this project throughout the process and look forward to its strong impact on Kansas City.” “This tremendous grant represents the best of how we gets things done, bringing together diverse partners to make Kansas City best,” said Kansas City Mayor Sly James. “It also presents an exciting opportunity to take a holistic approach to the revitalization of an economically underinvested area of our city that is rich in history. This grant will provide resources to and for residents to help improve their neighborhoods and lives. Working together, we can now focus on improving housing, transportation, social services and other vital services for the area.” The Choice Neighborhoods program supports locally driven strategies to address struggling neighborhoods with distressed public or HUD-assisted housing through a comprehensive approach to neighborhood transformation. Known as the Paseo Gateway project, the Kansas City vision focuses on a 450 acre targeted development area just east of Downtown that serves as a major entrance to the Historic Northeast area of Kansas City. The proposal includes redeveloping the isolated, 134-unit Chouteau Courts public housing project, which sits on top of an old landfill and is bordered by two interstate highways. In its place, a multi-phased mixed-income community will be built that includes 360 units. The plan also calls for increasing public safety, spurring economic growth through commercial investment, and improving the health and wellbeing for those in the community by rejuvenating key corridors, parks, and vacant properties. The project is the result of an extensive cooperative effort of over 30 stakeholder and partner organizations in the Pendleton Heights, Independence Plaza and Paseo West Neighborhoods that included neighbors, public housing residents, businesses, community non-profits and educational institutions. As the first Choice Neighborhoods implementation grant awarded in Missouri (previously HAKC received a planning grant for this project), this funding will help revitalize the community and leverage over $100 million in additional investments to reinvigorate the neighborhood thru this transformative effort that will benefit the entire Kansas City region. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) released the following statement in regards to John Boehner’s resignation of his speakership: "I regret the resignation of John Boehner, but I regret more that his Speakership has been marred by the fact that he could not be the leader he sought to be: a leader who understood that strong governance comes with the responsibility to work for the greater good. Unfortunately, he was prevented from doing so because of a small group of Tea-Party members in his conference who equate compromise with capitulation. Though many people predicted that this moment would come, reality has set in, and we can only hope that this institution is able to leave the petty partisanship in the past." ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
09.25.2015	KANSAS CITY, MO - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) will host U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro in Kansas City, MO, on Monday to announce major funding awards that will revitalize distressed neighborhoods and increase opportunity for low-income residents. The awards are part of a five-city announcement that will help grantees pursue comprehensive, locally driven plans to revitalize and transform distressed neighborhoods. Part of the Obama Administration’s effort to build Ladders of Opportunity to the middle class, these HUD funds promote a comprehensive approach to transforming neighborhoods struggling to address the interconnected challenges of distressed housing, inadequate schools, poor health, high crime, and lack of capital. Secretary Castro will later participate in a local convening of ConnectHome stakeholders in Kansas City, MO, on Monday. ConnectHome is a new pilot initiative bringing together federal and local government, Internet service providers, tech leaders, and non-profits to expand high-speed broadband access and increase digital literacy for low-income families living in HUD-assisted households. HUD has asked each of the 28 pilot communities to host convenings to begin implementation of their local plans. DETAILS for MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 EVENTS Kansas City, Missouri Event #1: WHO: HUD Secretary Julián Castro U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) Mayor Sly James, City of Kansas City, MO WHAT: Press conference to announce significant funding award to pursue revitalization in distressed neighborhoods WHEN: Monday, September 28, 2015, 2:30 p.m. Central WHERE: Samuel Rodgers Community Health Center, 825 Euclid Avenue, Kansas City, MO Event #2: WHO: HUD Secretary Julián Castro U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) Mayor Sly James, City of Kansas City, Mo. WHAT: Convening of ConnectHome stakeholders to plan the expansion of broadband access for families in HUD-assisted housing in Kansas City, Missouri. WHEN: Monday, September 28, 2015, 4:00 p.m. Central WHERE: Sprint Accelerator, 200 W. 19th Terrace, Kansas City, MO ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson, stressing the need for more anti-terror funding for the Kansas City area. Last week, a Florida man was arrested after allegedly plotting an attack in Kansas City, Missouri, for the 14th anniversary of the September 11 attacks. This arrest highlights the ongoing threats facing communities outside the naturally perceived targeted major cities. “Make no mistake, this federal funding is critical to ensuring Missourians remain safe and protected from terrorist threats,” said Cleaver. “It is clear as day that Kansas City remains a terrorist target and this funding will help better protect our city and region. I strongly urge the Department of Homeland Security to recognize the validity and serious need for this crucial anti-terror funding.” Every year, Missouri’s Fifth District hosts a wide variety of high-profile sporting and cultural events that require robust security and additional funding. These events, in addition to the everyday threats our community faces, put us at high risk for a potential terrorist attack. In the post-September 11 world, our first responders and local law enforcement personnel face a new reality that extends beyond traditional emergencies. We, as citizens in our communities, have placed our safety and security in the hands of first responders, and it would be unconscionable to prevent them from having the tools they need to save lives. In the past, Kansas City has received funding from the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI). This money has been critical in developing and maintaining capabilities necessary to quickly and effectively respond to terrorist attacks and catastrophic events in the region. Unfortunately, this year Kansas City was not included in the list of recipients. Though we understand that tough decisions are being made that impact communities everywhere, maintaining capabilities in urban areas with existing federal investments is a critical part of the national infrastructure. Full text of the letter that Congressman Cleaver sent to the Secretary can be read here. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
09.14.2015	KANSAS CITY, MO – Congressman Cleaver welcomed US Secretary of Education Arne Duncan to Kansas City this morning to talk about the importance of early childhood education. As part of his trip to Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, Secretary Duncan launched his new “Ready for Success” Back-to-School Bus Tour. Congressman Cleaver joined Secretary Duncan, along with Cecilia Muñoz, assistant to President Obama and Director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, at Woodland Early Learning Community School in Kansas City. “Early childhood education is a vital part of our educational system,” said Congressman Cleaver, “and I am thrilled that Secretary Duncan is recognizing the great work being done here in our city to increase opportunities for students, from our youngest learners all the way through college.” Early childhood education is one of the best investments we can make. There are approximately 6,000 three and four year old children within the Kansas City Public School (KCPS) boundaries, but only approximately 1,200 children are served in Pre-k classrooms that are funded by federal, or state grant programs, state child care subsidy, or parent fees. At Woodland, 82% of the children are prepared for success when they enter kindergarten compared to only 60% of kindergarteners district-wide. Secretary Duncan’s bus tour will stop in eleven cities throughout Missouri, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. More information can be here: https://www2.ed.gov/success/index.html ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
08.11.2015	Higginsville, MO - Yesterday Congressman Cleaver led a working meeting with local county economic development professionals, as well as the Administrator of USDA’s Rural Housing Service, Tony Hernandez, and representatives from the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Housing Assistance Council. The working meeting focused on rural workforce housing priorities and the housing needs of the Fifth District's rural communities. This effort included a roundtable discussion aimed at clarifying the workforce housing program options for local communities. As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, earlier this year, Congressman Cleaver announced that one of his top priorities as Congress's top Democrat on Housing issues, would be to maintain and expand rural housing opportunities for rural Americans. “I would like to thank all the representatives who took time to sit down with our regional group stakeholders and explain various options they may have for workforce housings needs," said Congressman Cleaver. "I would especially like to thank Administrator Hernandez for his solid leadership on the issue of workforce housing in rural America. His guidance and information will help our local rural communities understand and realize how to meet their immediate and longterm needs in regards to workforce housing.” ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce that he will be joining President Barack Obama and other Members of Congress on their five-day trip to Kenya and Ethiopia, leaving from Washington, D.C. Thursday evening. The bipartisan delegation includes both Senators and Representatives, including members of the Congressional Black Caucus. This is the first trip by any sitting US President to Ethiopia. “As today’s global economy becomes more and more interconnected, we must do our part to ensure that African countries can compete worldwide,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I am looking forward to participating in this delegation and bringing the importance of job growth, education, health care, and even climate change into the forefront of our discussions. I am grateful for this opportunity, as a person with African roots, to strengthen the ties between the United States and these African nations and the African people.” While in Kenya, the delegation will attend the Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES), an annual event begun by the President in 2010. This year’s summit, held in Nairobi, will assemble entrepreneurs, leaders of business in varying industries, start-up business mentors, and high-level government officials. Previous summits have taken place in Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, Malaysia, and Morocco. On Saturday, Members of Congress and the President will attend the opening plenary with all attendees. That afternoon, they will also visit and meet with representatives of Kenya’s environmental community, before attending a State Dinner at the State House with Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta. On Sunday, President Obama will address the GES, speaking about the United States’ relationship with the Kenyan people within the global economy. Later in the trip, the delegation will travel to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, where the delegation will meet with Ethiopian President Mulatu Teshome and Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn. Additionally, President Obama will deliver a speech at the African Union Tuesday morning before returning to Washington, D.C. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Cleaver is thrilled to announce that President Barack Obama, in coordination with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Secretary Julian Castro, has chosen Kansas City to participate in their new digital inclusion program called ConnectHome. This initiative aims to increase broadband access for children and families living in HUD-assisted housing in 28 communities across the country. “Secretary Castro and I agree that access to high-speed Internet is no longer a luxury but a necessity in our current global economy,” Congressman Cleaver said. “Over the last few years, our community has seen a drastic transformation in internet affordability and speed. But with as many as twenty-five percent of our residents lacking internet access at home, it is clear that we need to do more to ensure that everyone can utilize these benefits. Secretary Castro’s announcement is a welcome step in the right direction towards bridging the digital divide.” According to HUD, “ConnectHome establishes a platform for collaboration between local governments, members of private industry, nonprofit organizations, and other interested entities to produce locally-tailored solutions for narrowing the digital divide.” Stakeholders will aim to aid in breaking down barriers to broadband access by underwriting costs of attaining high-speed service, providing training in digital literacy, and building up infrastructure in HUD-assisted housing and buildings. HUD is joining forces with eight Internet Service Providers nationwide The selected communities will be responsible for developing criteria for evaluating effectiveness of the ConnectHome program and informing HUD of the efficiency of the program. HUD will not be dedicating any federal funding for ConnectHome, but has pinpointed possible policies to provide their existing programs with greater flexibility in accessing broadband Internet. In a letter sent to Secretary Castro in early May, Congressman Cleaver urged Secretary Castro to select Kansas City, Missouri, as one of the demonstration project cities. Cleaver highlighted the digital divide in Missouri’s Fifth District, saying that it is, at its heart, an issue that only perpetuates existing social and economic inequality. Congressman Cleaver also asked Secretary Castro to include a directive to allow housing agencies to treat the Internet as a utility, and thus being eligible for a utility allowance. Though this portion is not included in today’s announcement, public housing agencies are able to apply for waivers and therefore treat the Internet like a utility. Congressman Cleaver will continue to work to give public housing agencies this authority. “The President’s selection of Kansas City as a ConnectHome initiative city will advance our ongoing digital equity efforts for our entire city,” Kansas City Mayor Sly James said. “Public housing residents are in dire need of connectivity, and our participation in this initiative will give everyone the opportunity to succeed in Kansas City’s technological economy.” Edwin Lowndes, executive director of the Housing Authority of Greater Kansas City, stated, “Affordable internet service is necessary in today’s world in order to access education, employment opportunities and fully participate in our communities. We are excited that the Housing Authority and the City of Kansas City have been selected to participate in the President’s ConnectHome initiative. We will focus on ways to bring affordable internet services to very low-income families in Kansas City and provide opportunities for these families to access 21st century technology in their homes." More information on the ConnectHome program, which President Obama will speak about today in Oklahoma, is available here. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver is pleased to announce that the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) has chosen Honeywell Federal Manufacturing & Technologies (FM&T), led by President Chris Gentile, to continue as the management and operating contractor for the National Security Campus (NSC) in Kansas City, MO. “This is great news and a win-win for our local economy,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “Honeywell FM&T already employs 2,500 people with high-skilled engineering and manufacturing jobs, and this news will ensure that these jobs stay right here in Missouri’s Fifth District. Today’s announcement emphasizes the government’s focus on modernization, innovation, cost savings, infrastructure investment, and environmental efficiency." This notification is a culmination of over a decade of work by the area Congressional delegation, led in 2006 by then-Senator Kit Bond and Congressman Cleaver to keep these vital federal employees in Missouri's Fifth District. In FY09, Congressman Cleaver secured nearly $1M in federal funding to begin the process of transferring the NNSA operation from the outdated Bannister Federal Complex to a new $687M facility in South Kansas City. Congressman Cleaver was joined at the ground breaking in 2008 by Senator Bond, Congressman Ike Skelton, and Congressman Sam Graves. Cleaver has visited with NNSA and Honeywell employees regularly over the past few years to ensure a smooth transition to the new facility. Honeywell oversaw and completed the extensive move in 2014 to its current National Security Campus, a move that saved millions in operating costs and reduced energy consumption by up to fifty percent. Honeywell FM&T has a long history of top-quality execution in the national security industry and the NNSA is confident in their success going forward. Honeywell's current contract expires September 30, 2015 and the NNSA decided last fall to conduct a full and open competition for a 5-year contract with options for up to 5 additional years. The $900M annual contract will ensure a decade of stability for our region's workforce, while saving $120M over the life of the contract, and increase small business utilization by 25%. Honeywell has continually satisfied all critical management and quality assurance requirements that NNSA necessitates to ensure the continued success of the NSC. The NSC in Kansas City, Missouri, maintains a facility on 177 acres, leased for the NNSA by the General Services Administration (GSA). It provides support to the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Stockpile Stewardship Program, focusing on the production and procurement of non-nuclear components and hardware for nuclear weapons. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information please contact John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4535.
07.02.2015	KANSAS CITY, MO – Today, Congressman Cleaver applauded the President’s announcement that the Department of Labor will propose extending overtime pay protections to nearly 5 million salaried American workers, including 110,000 in Missouri. This proposal would increase the current overtime protection threshold, guaranteeing overtime pay to most salaried workers earning less than an estimated $50,440 per year. “For far too long, Americans have worked harder, but their wages have stayed the same,” said Congressman Cleaver. “The proposed rule announced yesterday will affirm the fundamental American principle that a long day’s work deserves a fair day’s pay.” The salary threshold for overtime pay for American workers has been changed only twice in the last 40 years and now covers far fewer workers due to inflation. Currently, only workers making less than $23,660 per year – a wage below the poverty threshold for a family of four – are guaranteed overtime pay. This proposal updates the overtime rules to ensure that millions more Americans who work over 40 hours per week will receive overtime pay. “Increasing the wages of hard-working families in Missouri is essential to the health of our economy and the strength of our democracy,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I firmly believe that there is no job an individual would not take if it would allow them to provide for their family and themselves. Something must be done to ensure that all hardworking Americans are able to provide for their families, and this is a very positive step in the right direction. We must focus on creating more good-paying jobs, growing America’s middle class, and strengthening hard-working families.” Beginning on Monday, when the proposed rule appears in the Federal Register, the American public will have 60 days to submit comments on this rule – a rule that would benefit so many American families. ### Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released a statement on the historic ruling from the Supreme Court: that there is a fundamental right to marry under the Constitution, in Obergefell v. Hodges. “Ever since the wedding at Cana, Jesus taught us that the main thing and the plain thing was love,” said Congressman Cleaver, II. “Today that is still true. What a momentous day for the LGBT community, and for their friends and families who celebrate today across our great country. The Supreme Court has affirmed their humanity. As the majority opinion states, ‘No union is more profound than marriage, for it embodies the highest ideals of love, fidelity, devotion, sacrifice, and family.’ This decision is a an important step toward ending the invidious indignity of discrimination faced by too many families, based solely on where they live and who they love. As a minister, it has been a privilege to preside over many marriages and civil unions, to usher two people down a path of love and devotion. Today, that path is open to all people, no matter who they love.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released a statement on two historic rulings from the Supreme Court: the decision to affirm the availability of tax credits under the Affordable Care Act to individuals in States with a federal healthcare exchange, in King et al. v. Burwell, Secretary of Health and Human Services, et al.; and the decision to affirm the use of disparate impact claims under the Fair Housing Act in Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs et al. v. Inclusive Communities Project, Inc. et al. “The Supreme Court has said it again and again: The Affordable Care Act is the law of the land,” said Congressman Cleaver, II. Today’s decision saves lives. The ACA is helping millions of Americans focus on their families, jobs, and quality of life, instead of worrying about what will happen if they and their family members get hurt or sick. Now I am no lawyer—I am simply a United Methodist preacher. Even I can tell you, the text, structure, and history of the law have always been crystal clear on this: tax credits are available to all eligible Americans, regardless of whether they live in a State that chose to set up its own Exchange or, in a State, like Missouri, that chose to let the Federal government set one up for it. As the majority opinion states, ‘Congress passed the Affordable Care Act to improve health insurance markets, not to destroy them.’ Some political partisans have been trying to eke out a victory against President Obama and Congressional Democrats, at the expense of people’s health, well-being, and wallets. Today’s decision protects 6.4 million Americans across the country and 200,000 in Missouri from suffering. It is a victory for us all. “In another ruling, the Supreme Court has now affirmed that equal opportunity in housing continues to be one of our most cherished values. Today’s Texas Housing ruling upholds the use of disparate-impact claims under the Fair Housing Act, which allows renters and homeowners to prevent and contest harmful and unfair housing policies. We are fortunate in 2015, in that overt and officious racism is now considered odious and ostracizing. But by no means are we a perfect or post-racial society, nor will we be anytime soon. Banks, landlords, and other housing providers should apply policies fairly to everyone. When they use policies that sound neutral in theory, but have an unfair impact in practice, we should be able to challenge that. The Supreme Court has now affirmed that we can.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congressman Cleaver called for immediate action to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank and protect American jobs. The charter of the Ex-Im Bank, a key support for American workers and American businesses looking to sell their goods overseas, expires on June 30 – in just one legislative day. Yesterday, instead of taking action on this legislation, the House of Representatives held its 60th vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act. House Republicans are planning to recess for the month on Thursday, allowing the charter to expire. “It is outrageous that we continue to hold votes to undermine the Affordable Care Act, but refuse to stand with American workers and American businesses exporting their goods overseas,” said Congressman Cleaver. “We must not put the pursuit of political tribalism above the jobs of hard-working Missourians – including the 9,397 people in Missouri whose jobs have been supported by the Ex-Im Bank since 2007.” In total, the Export-Import Bank has created or sustained 1.5 million private sector jobs since 2007, at no cost to the taxpayer. Three times in recent months, Democrats have moved to have the House consider legislation to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank’s charter, but each time they have been blocked. Tonight, instead of addressing the impending Ex-Im charter deadline, the House will vote once again to undermine the Affordable Care Act, by repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board and slashing the vital Prevention Fund, which funds such critical services as cancer screenings and childhood immunizations. “We must stop trying to dismantle the newfound health security of millions of American families across the nation, and instead focus on the thousands of jobs and hundreds of companies supported by the Ex-Im Bank. Missouri does nearly 1.5 billion in export sales. Now is the time to act: we must renew the Ex-Im Bank and support American jobs,” Congressman Cleaver concluded. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.18.2015	“My heart is heavy today for the victims, both living and dead, and their friends and family. As a United Methodist minister, I am deeply troubled to hear of any life lost to violence and hate. After learning of the depraved and profane shooting of Christians, because they were black, in their oasis—their sanctuary— I remembered my own commitment to Bishop W. T. Handy, during my term as Kansas City’s Mayor, to conduct the Wednesday evening Bible study and, of course, the Sunday worship service. This attack, committed in the house of God, as congregants studied the word of God, saddens me beyond the telling. Reverend Clementa Pinckney and the men and women of Emanuel AME Church walked by faith, and not by sight. I join with people of faith, and of goodwill today, to pray for peace, to strive for justice, and to create a better, more harmonious world.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.17.2015	Today, Congressman Cleaver sent a letter to the Citizens Stamp Advisory Committee calling for the creation of a series of commemorative stamps to be issued in 2017, 2018, and 2019 in memory of World War I. “These stamps will allow us to pay tribute to the service and sacrifice of World War I,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “July 28th of this year will mark the 100th anniversary of the beginning of World War I and the day Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia. The United States entered World War I on April 6, 1917 and the year 2018 marks the 100th anniversary of the signing of the armistice with Germany, ending World War I battlefield hostilities. The Treaty of Versailles, formally ending the war, was signed by Germany and the Allied Nations on June 28, 1919. It has taken far too long for us to adequately honor the more than four million men and women from the United States who served during World War I. Now is the time to pay our tribute.” Congressman Cleaver has worked to honor the memory of World War I veterans in numerous ways, even during his tenure as Mayor of Kansas City, Missouri. Most recently, Rep. Cleaver fought for the passage of the American Veterans Centennial Commemorative Coin Act, which directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of this centennial. Additionally, Congressman Cleaver secured passage of an amendment to designate the Liberty Memorial at America's National World War I Museum in Kansas City, Missouri, as the “National World War I Museum and Memorial.” The amendment re-designated Pershing Park in Washington, DC as the “National World War I Memorial.” The text of the letter is available below. Led by Congressman Cleaver, the 112th Congress established the WWI Centennial Commission to plan, develop, and execute programs, projects, and activities to commemorate the centennial of World War I. The Commission has not been authorized any federal taxpayer dollars and is funded through donations and potential coin sales. Dear Members of the Citizens’ Stamp Advisory Committee, Earlier this month, I had the pleasure of being present at the White House when President Obama awarded the Medal of Honor posthumously to Army Sergeant William Shemin and Army Private Henry Johnson for conspicuous gallantry during World War I. The year 2017 will mark the centennial of America’s first engagement in World War I and commemoration of the anniversary will consist of educational and interactive events nationwide, including the construction and dedication of the National World War I Memorial in Washington, D.C. The U.S. Mint will begin circulation of a WWI Commemorative Coin in 2018 to celebrate those who served. It seems fitting for the United States Postal Service to join in honoring the memory of World War I, its role in American and world history, and its veterans with a commemorative series of stamps from 2017-2019. The United States Postal Service has a history of memorializing significant historical events through stamps, including the 100th Anniversary of the Civil War, World War II, Vietnam War Veterans, Korean War Veterans, Desert Storm-Desert Shield, Rough Riders 50th Anniversary, and the 150th Anniversary of the Battle of New Orleans, but no stamp exists to honor the brave veterans of World War I. More than four million men and women from the United States served in uniform during World War I and over two million American soldiers served overseas in our pursuit for peace. Issuing a series of stamps would allow us to pay tribute to the diversity of American involvement in World War I hostilities while honoring the memory, service, and sacrifice of over four million outstanding Americans. Once again, I ask the Committee to give careful consideration to a series of postage stamps commemorating World War I. Between the World War I Centennial Commission, the National World War I Museum and Memorial, and the hundreds of state and local organizations working on this effort, I believe there would be significant interest in these stamps. It is time to pay tribute to the great sacrifices made by these brave Americans. Warmest Regards, Emanuel Cleaver, II Member of Congress Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.12.2015	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released this statement regarding the trade votes taken in the House today: “Today, Wall Street wins again. Main Street is waiting on a champion. The manner in which business was conducted today in the U.S. House of Representatives is beneath the dignity of this institution. Missouri’s Fifth District deserves better. Our nation deserves better. Due to the concerns raised by my constituents, I could not, in good conscience, support any part of this convoluted and confounding deal. During these negotiations, I have made it known that I would lend my support to a deal only if it included improved working conditions, better wages and living standards, strong protections for our environment, the preservation of human rights, and jobs created here in the United States. Keep in mind, this is far more than a trade bill. We have a constitutionally mandated responsibility to ensure that the process, and this trade bill, move our nation forward. We have failed to meet that responsibility today.” Congressman Cleaver voted no on H.R.1314, Trade Act of 2015 - Concurring in portion of Senate Amendment comprising of title II which failed to pass the House by a vote of 126 to 302. Congressman Cleaver voted no on H.R. 1314, Trade Act of 2015 - Concurring in portion of senate amendment preceding title II, which passed the House by a vote of 219 to 211. Congressman Cleaver voted no on H.R. 644, Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, which passed the House by a vote of 240-190. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.10.2015	On Wednesday, June 10, 2015, the House of Representatives approved H. Res 295, to support local law enforcement agencies’ use of body-worn cameras, sponsored by Rep. Al Green (TX-9) and Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05). Additional original cosponsors for the resolution include Reps. Ted Poe (TX-2), Yvette Clarke (NY-9), William Lacy Clay (MO-1), Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-3), and Kevin Yoder (KS-3). The resolution specifically acknowledges local law enforcement agencies for their service to communities, and recognizes the positive benefits body-worn cameras have had on police-community relations. “Body cameras are one part of a broader solution to keep our communities safe and promote accountability,” Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II said. “This resolution reminds us that our goals must be to increase transparency, protect the rights of all parties involved, and to provide better evidence for any police investigation, both for the citizens and also the officers. I am proud to have fought for body camera funding in President Obama’s budget proposal, as well as during the appropriations process in the House of Representatives. Together with other members, we were able to secure $25 million dollars’ worth of funding. This victory, while impressive, highlights the pressing need for substantive legislation on this issue.” "I support the efforts of peace officers to serve and protect our community, as well as enforce the rule of law,” Congressman Al Green said. “For that reason, I want our peace officers to have all the tools necessary to build police-community relations, improve transparency, and maintain legitimacy. One such tool for achieving this is body-worn cameras. Although body-worn cameras are not a panacea and authorities are still working to allay concerns about possible violations of privacy, implementation is still a significant step in the right direction that many of our local law enforcement agencies have already taken. While there is more work to be done, steps taken by local law enforcement agencies, when taken together have moved us forward as a nation on the issue of transparency and accountability in law enforcement.” “This resolution sends a clear message that the House of Representatives supports the safety and security of both our brave men and women in the police force and the members of our communities across the country,” Representative Kevin Yoder said. “During a time where relations between law enforcement and citizens across the country are sadly strained, I’m proud to join with Representative Cleaver to show our constituents in the Kansas City area that this issue is not a partisan issue, but one that we can all get behind.” The resolution highlights a report by the U.S. Department of Justice entitled “Police Officer Body-Worn Cameras.” The report found that body-worn cameras increased transparency, citizen views of police legitimacy, improved behavior by citizens and police alike, as well as assisted in the prosecution of criminals. It also cites a 12-month study by the University of Cambridge’s Institute of Criminology on the use of body-worn cameras by law enforcement in the United Kingdom. The study found that the body-worn cameras led to an approximately 50 percent reduction in use of force, and complaints against police fell by approximately 90 percent. Reps. Cleaver and Green worked to secure inclusion of body camera funding in President Obama’s FY2016 budget proposal. The President’s new Community Policing Initiative aims to build and sustain trust between law enforcement and the people they serve. Reps. Al Green and Emanuel Cleaver have also introduced the Camera Authorization and Maintenance-Transparency in Policing Act (CAM-TIP) of 2015, so that Congress can join with the President and local law enforcement agencies on the issue of transparency and accountability in law enforcement. The CAM-TIP Act of 2015 would establish a grant program to help fund body-worn-camera use by local law enforcement agencies. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON DC – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II joined President Barack Obama, Senator Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY), and Congressman Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) at the White House on Tuesday to posthumously award the Presidential Medal of Honor to Army Private Henry Johnson and Army Sergeant William Shemin. Three World War I Centennial Commissioners were also present: Col. Robert Dalessandro, Libby O’Connell, and Edwin Fountain. “Yesterday’s ceremony allows us to honor the memory, service, and sacrifice of two key individuals who served during World War I,” Congressman Cleaver stated. “The year 2018 will mark the 100th anniversary of the signing of the armistice with Germany, ending World War I battlefield hostilities. It’s taken far too long for us to adequately honor the service and sacrifice of the more than four million men and women from the United States who served during World War I. Now is the time to pay our tribute.” Congressman Cleaver has been pleased to support the efforts of Senator Schumer and the Johnson family throughout this process. Congressman Cleaver has also done extensive work creating the World War I Centennial Commission and designating the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City as the National World War I Museum and Memorial. “We are a nation -- a people -- who remember our heroes,” President Obama said on Tuesday. “We take seriously our responsibility to only send them when war is necessary. We strive to care for them and their families when they come home. We never forget their sacrifice. And we believe that it’s never too late to say thank you.” During World War I, Private Johnson served as a part of the 369th Infantry Regiment the “Harlem Hellfighters,” an all-black infantry regiment based in New York. Private Johnson’s honor comes nearly 86 years after his death in 1929. He bravely risked his own life to fend off a German raid in order to save his fellow soldier, Private Needham Roberts, from German captivity. Johnson had himself and Roberts barricade themselves in French trenches in order to avoid being struck by German gunfire. Johnson repelled the German attack by lobbing grenades, returning rifle fire, ultimately leading to him engaging in hand-to-hand combat. Left only with his knife, Johnson charged at the enemy as they attempted to capture Roberts. While saving his injured friend’s life, Johnson suffered nearly two dozen injuries, including gunshot wounds to his head, lip, side and hand. Despite any official recognition at the time, former President Theodore Roosevelt later called Johnson one of the “five bravest Americans” to serve in World War I. Private Johnson’s efforts earned him the Croix de Guerre, the French government’s highest level of military recognition for bravery during battle. Major Herman Johnson and his daughter Tara, of Kansas City, worked tirelessly for the movement of Private Johnson’s remains to Arlington Cemetery and the awarding of a Purple Heart and Distinguished Service Cross. Herman, a Tuskegee Airman, died believing he was Private Johnson's son, although no biological relation exists. Tara was present at the ceremony. President Obama presented the Presidential Medal of Honor to Command Sergeant Major Louis Wilson, who accepted the award on Johnson’s behalf. The Presidential Medal of Honor is only awarded to members of the Armed Forces who distinguish themselves conspicuously by gallantry above and beyond the call of duty. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here. For more information: John Jones – john.h.jones@mail.house.gov (202) 225-4535 ###
05.28.2015	Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II welcomed Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Julián Castro to Kansas City, Missouri. Congressman Cleaver, as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, invited Secretary Castro to see firsthand the significant housing work being done in Missouri’s Fifth District and to highlight the continued need for HUD support in future housing endeavors. “As HUD celebrates its fiftieth anniversary, it is time to look back at the dividends that place-based investment can yield,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Nowhere is this more evident than at Posada Del Sol and Villa Del Sol, in Kansas City, Missouri, where families and seniors can find an affordable, accessible, welcoming place to live. I will keep fighting for full funding for HUD programs like Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) and Supportive Housing for the Elderly (Section 202 Program), which have made such a difference here in Missouri’s Fifth District, and around the country. Even as we look back, we look to the future to see what we can do to lessen income inequality, increase energy efficiency at home, bridge the digital divide in every neighborhood, and expand access to housing for all.” Congressman Cleaver and Secretary Castro will tour Villa Del Sol and Posada Del Sol Apartments. The tour is the latest stop on Secretary Castro's Opportunity and Investment Community Tour, which spans across the country to gain a better understanding of housing and urban development issues facing American communities. Through community development investments, affordable housing and skills training, HUD is working to ensure Americans living in low-income neighborhoods have the opportunity to thrive. Westside Housing Organization, Inc., the manager of Posada Del Sol, is a private, not-for-profit corporation founded in 1973 by neighborhood residents who wanted the City to improve the physical conditions of their neighborhood and save houses from being torn down for highway construction. Today, Westside Housing is one of the oldest and most respected community development corporations (CDC) in Kansas City, Missouri. It is the only CDC in Kansas City, Missouri that includes a significant focus on serving the Latino community, advocating on a range of social, political and housing issues. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
05.21.2015	Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II wrote to President Obama to call for a joint task force between the Centers for Disease Control and the Department of Education, on the problem of increased suicides among black children. A recent study revealed the rate of suicide among black children has increased in the past few years. “Suicide is truly a tragedy for any family it affects,” said Congressman Cleaver. “There is something especially saddening and shocking when very young children, between the ages of five and eleven, take their own lives. As a father and grandfather, I can only imagine the pain these families must face. This national study demonstrates that African-American children are more likely to be exposed to violence and traumatic stress which, in part, can increase the risk of depression, impulsive aggression, and suicide. The consequences for our children are more than dire—they are deadly. I urge the President and his Cabinet to identify proposals that healthcare and education providers can implement to deal with this heart-wrenching crisis, and to prevent further loss of life.” The study, Suicide Trends Among Elementary School–Aged Children in the United States From 1993 to 2012, published in the journal JAMA Pediatrics, found that the suicide rate among African-American children has almost doubled in the last two decades. This study also revealed that suicides by hanging roughly tripled among black boys, while remaining virtually unchanged for whites. To that point, the study noted that from 1993 through 2012, there were 657 suicides among children aged 5 through 11. Most were ages 10 or 11. The rate during the years studied was just over 1 per million children. But for black boys, it edged up from less than 2 per million to almost 3.5 per million. The study is available here. The text of the letter is available below. Dear President Obama: According to a recently released study, published in the journal JAMA Pediatrics, the suicide rate among African-American children has almost doubled in the last two decades. It was the first time a national study found a higher suicide rate for blacks than for whites of any age group. This groundbreaking study has stunned researchers and demonstrates that African-American children are more likely to be exposed to violence and traumatic stress, which in part, can increase the risk of depression, impulsive aggression, and suicide. This study also revealed that suicides by hanging roughly tripled among black boys, while remaining virtually unchanged for white children. The study noted that from 1993 through 2012, there were 657 suicides among children aged 5 through 11. The rate during the years studied was just over 1 per million children. While there was a decline among white boys, the rate edged up from less than 2 per million to almost 3.5 per million for black boys.. Due to the severity of these findings, I am urging you to direct the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the Department of Education (ED) to come together and create a joint task force to address this issue of increased suicides among black children and determine what needs to be done in the medical and education community to address this issue. Additionally, I am requesting that this proposed task force develop proposals that health care and education providers can implement to deal with this crisis, which would hopefully include increased mental health screening. It is critical that the CDC and ED respond to these troublesome findings with the utmost urgency. The health and well-being of our pre-adolescent constituencies is a crucial component to the overall safety of our country. I am hopeful that CDC and ED will work to curtail the number of increased suicides among African-American children. I appreciate your attention to this important matter and if I can be of any assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me in my Washington D.C. office at (202) 225-4535. Sincerely, Emanuel Cleaver, II Member of Congress Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
05.18.2015	Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay applauded President Obama’s decision to curtail the distribution of some forms of military-style equipment and to add stricter controls on other transfers. After months of study, the White House Law Enforcement Equipment Working Group Report released a list of military hardware that local law enforcement will be prohibited from securing with federal funds or from federal agencies. “Our local police officers and law enforcement deserve respect, and our first responders deserve the best tools and training available to protect and serve our communities,” said Congressman Cleaver. “That doesn’t mean Main Street should be filled with tear gas, sound cannons, MRAPs, or other weapons of war. My colleagues and I have worked for almost a year now to spur a fundamental shift in local law enforcement, away from military-style response and toward a community-based, proportionate-response style of policing. Today’s announcement is progress for this effort, and for our communities. We must do all we can to give local law enforcement the right tools, proper training, and appropriate techniques they need to do keep our streets safe and secure.” “I want to thank President Obama for acting on several of the key issues that Congressman Cleaver and I raised with former Secretary of Defense Hagel when we met with him at the Pentagon just days after the unrest began last summer in Ferguson,” said Congressman Clay. “I witnessed first-hand, high-powered sniper rifles with night scopes being pointed at my constituents who were peacefully exercising their constitutional rights. That kind of police militarization is harmful and it deepens the already wide gulf of mistrust that exists between communities of color and some local law enforcement agencies. I am proud to cosponsor new legislation with Mr. Cleaver and others to codify these changes made by executive order into federal law.” In August of 2014, Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Clay authored a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel calling for a review of the 1033 program. Additionally, both Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Clay met with Secretary Hagel to discuss in depth the militarization of local law enforcement. The conversation, which was productive and positive, addressed urgent concerns about the militarization of local law enforcement agencies through the distribution of surplus Department of Defense equipment via the 1033 Program. In December of 2014, President Obama included, as examples, many of the recommendations and strategies the Members put forth last August: ensuring that all equipment available for acquisition by law enforcement agencies has a legitimate civilian law enforcement purpose; including training requirements that address appropriate use and deployment of equipment; broadening transparency of the 1033 and other agency equipment repurpose programs; and requiring police officers to wear body cameras. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
05.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II is helping lead the fight to give hardworking Americans a long-overdue wage increase by raising the federal minimum wage. Last week, Rep. Cleaver signed on as an original cosponsor of the Raise the Wage Act to raise the Federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $12.00 by 2020. The bill, introduced in both the House and Senate, would also gradually eliminate the subminimum tipped wage system and index the Federal minimum wage to keep pace with the rising median wage. “I am proud to stand with the hardworking Americans in my district, throughout Missouri and across the country to advocate for an increase in pay,” Rep. Cleaver said. “We’ve said it before: no one who works full time should have to live in poverty. The Raise the Wage Act simply means that those who work hard would earn enough to get them above the poverty line. I firmly believe that there is no job an individual would not take if it would allow them to provide for their family and themselves.” In 2007, the Democratic-led Congress enacted a law phasing in an increase in the federal minimum wage to $7.25. Since the minimum wage reached $7.25 six years ago in 2009, the minimum wage has not kept pace with inflation, or the growth in the median wage, resulting in low-wage workers continuing to fall behind. In fact, the real value of today’s minimum wage is less than it was in 1956. Under the Raise the Wage Act, the federal minimum wage would start to rise almost immediately. Beginning January 2016, or three months after the date of enactment of the Raise the Wage Act, the federal minimum wage would increase by $0.75 to $8.00 per hour, followed by $1.00 per hour increases every year until it reaches $12.00. Starting in 2021, the Federal minimum wage would keep pace with rising wages overall through automatic annual increases to keep the ratio of the minimum wage constant with the median wage. “As we work to address increasing income inequality in this country, the minimum wage bill would help narrow the growing gap in wages,” continued Congressman Cleaver. “In Missouri, 756,000 workers stand to benefit from a raise in the wage, including 346,000 women and 91,000 working mothers. Money in the pockets of working families can mean more money spent in local stores and in our local economies.” Congressman Cleaver has pushed companies, including Wal-Mart and Target, among others, to raise their wages without waiting for Congressional action. Still, Rep. Cleaver has called on his colleagues across the aisle to join with Democrats and cosponsor the Raise the Wage Act. In the last Congress, Republicans voted eight times to block attempts to raise the wage over the two-year session, making the American people work harder for less. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
04.29.2015	Today, Congressman Cleaver released this statement in response to the protests and unrest in Baltimore, Maryland: “With the recent tragedy and subsequent unrest in Baltimore, Maryland, it is clear now more than ever that we need effective policing reform legislation,” stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Congressional inaction must not thwart meaningful action on policing reform. This includes, but is not limited to the Fair Justice Act, which I am working to introduce with Republican support and the CAM-TIP Act, which I have introduced along with Congressman Al Green (D-TX). People in Ferguson, Staten Island, Cleveland, Baltimore, North Charleston, and cities across the country are crying out for leadership. We, their elected representatives, must not abdicate our responsibilities to act. Political dysfunction should no longer delay policing reform. Make no mistake, this is a matter of life and death.” “It is clear that there are police officers across this country and people of goodwill who support meaningful policing reforms, such as the utilization of body cameras and ending the policy of taxation by citation. But until Congress steps up to the plate, and – at a minimum — starts to debate legislation on policing reform, it is we as Americans who will be forced to deal with the tragic consequences.” The Fair Justice Act, which Congressman Cleaver is preparing to introduce, would bar a municipality from exceeding 30% of its general revenue from traffic tickets and fines. Funds exceeding the 30% cap would then go into a state fund for community policing efforts. It would require each state to pass its own law capping traffic fines at 30% within a year after enactment. The bill would also bar local law enforcement agencies from issuing directives that would allow the agency to issue tickets based on motivations of revenue rather than motivations of public safety. Additionally, this bill would effectively ban police from carrying out “taxation by citation.” H.R. 1124, the Camera Accountability Maintenance and Transparency in Policing Act of 2015, would establish a grant program for the acquisition, operation, and maintenance of body worn cameras for law enforcement officers. This legislation is important to any and all members of the public who encounter a law enforcement officer, and it is important for the officers themselves. The goal is to increase transparency, protect the rights of all parties involved, and to provide better evidence for any police investigation, both for the citizens and the officers. The bill also calls for a study on the use of body-worn cameras and the establishment of a task force to provide recommendations on community policing. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
04.28.2015	“The Future of Financial Services and Insurance: Risk and Regulation at Home and Abroad” will be broadcast live here. Today, Congressman Cleaver will join National Journal for a robust discussion about globalization and its impact on the financial sector and the economy. Following his remarks, Congressman Cleaver will be interviewed by Ron Fournier, Senior Political Columnist and Editorial Director for National Journal. Senator Richard Shelby, Chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, also spoke at this event. Congressman Cleaver will discuss the health of the economy and the financial system; how can government best mitigate risk; what effect has Dodd-Frank and other related financial services legislation had on the sector, among other important issues. His remarks, as drafted for delivery, are below. The situation in Baltimore is not unique to Baltimore; we have seen that play out many times before. The problem is that we really neither talk about how we can improve race relations, nor do we do anything about it, and sometimes we talk about it and talking about it isn’t doing anything about it. I think it is really dangerous, no matter what your views are, it is a dangerous situation and it can impact the economics of this country and this community, particularly the insurance community. All you have to do is look at the flames rising above two different sectors of Baltimore to realize, when the smoke settles there will be an economic crisis in those neighborhoods. I’ve been going down to Ferguson for the last three years, long before the crisis hit. Ferguson is a city that has grown old but it hasn’t grown up. As a result, we see the tragedy that has played out and it is an embarrassment, not just for Missouri. When you look across the country it is an embarrassment for all of us. It ought to be something that we should be able to get a little bit better at than we have gotten in over 300 years. I think that there can be no gathering of people, with good will and who love this country, without considering to do a little bit more than to discuss what is going on. Maybe we need to do some things about it. When invited to speak today, I was asked to address the health of the economy and the financial system; the effect Dodd-Frank has had on the financial sector, and how can government best ensure the resilience of the U.S. financial system and the economy? These are very important questions, to be sure. But I fear they may lead us to the wrong answers. In truth, we must ask ourselves—how does a law affect the American people? Does it protect and preserve? Does it restrict and restrain? Are we better off living under the protection of this law than without it? The financial crisis caused incalculable, widespread human suffering that impacted millions of Americans – and continues to this day. All told, it cost our nation more than $13 trillion in economic growth and $16 trillion in household wealth. Nearly 9 million jobs were destroyed as the unemployment rate doubled. Foreclosures displaced more than 11 million Americans, which contributed to a decline in home values of more than 30 percent. Even in a room such as this, where many of us are blessed beyond measure, we all felt the blows, and many of us know some who are still recovering from the damage. After the worst of the crisis subsided, it became clear that a massive reform of our nation's financial system was necessary to reset the economy and prevent a future crisis. Dodd-Frank accomplished that goal: providing accountability, transparency, and creating a stable financial system essential to grow the economy and create jobs. I believe this law goes a long way toward restoring responsibility and accountability in our financial system. I voted for it. I support it. I want to protect it. But I have watched the way it and other laws have been implemented, and when and where I have taken issue with it, I have taken initiative. I will continue to do so. Perhaps the major issue in financial reform has been how to address the systemic fragility that was revealed by the crisis. Dodd-Frank creates a new regulatory umbrella group chaired by the Treasury Secretary—the Financial Stability Oversight Council—with authority to designate certain financial firms as "systemically significant" and subjecting them to increased prudential regulation, including limits on leverage, heightened capital standards, and restrictions on certain forms of risky trading. These firms will also be subject to a special resolution process similar to that used in the past to address failing depository institutions. Of course, there are three large insurance companies that have been designated as a systemically important financial institution (SIFIs). That may be a true four letter word in this room. The U.S. insurance industry is of course primarily regulated by the states. However, the consequences of the crash revealed the extent to which our U.S. financial regulatory framework had allowed for supervisory gaps to grow. There was simply no single regulator responsible for understanding and supervising the enterprise as a whole. To be sure, the insurance industry plays a major role in the U.S. economy. In 2012, insurance premiums in the life and health and property and casualty sectors totaled more than $1.1 trillion. U.S. insurers continue to show resilience in the aftermath of the financial crisis. While the United States remains the world’s largest insurance market by premium volume, its share has declined both as a percentage of domestic GDP and as a percentage of worldwide market share. Life and health insurance sector premiums grew consistently from 2010 to 2012, and there was high growth in the annuity business and moderate growth in the life and accident and health businesses. U.S. insurer investment portfolios include short-term commercial paper, asset-backed securities, and other financial instruments. Some insurers are also significant participants in the derivatives and securities lending markets. One bipartisan solution is to develop regulations, oversight and capital requirements that are graduated and tailored to the types of risks that these firms would pose to the financial system. There has been a growing consensus that while additional regulation is appropriate, it will need to be tailored to suit the business models and operations of nonbank entities. For example, my colleague, Chairman Leutkemeyer and I wrote to the Federal Reserve Board regarding implementation of S. 2270, the Insurance Capital Standards Clarification Act. As supporters of this law, we urged the Federal Reserve to avoid using Basel bank-centric capital framework for insurers. A capital regime, we wrote, should take into account the unique characteristics of the insurance business model, including accounting systems, insurer liabilities, valuation standards, and hold-to-maturity practices. We urged Chair Yellen to ensure that no policy principles are agreed to internationally that would restrict the ability to implement the legislation in accordance with the intent of Congress. This is but one example of a growing list of bipartisan efforts I am working to achieve. As a former Mayor, I know firsthand the importance of remaining competitive or risking the loss of jobs and industry. I know the balancing act one must attempt to protect citizens and to promote prosperity. I have long believed we have to continue to implement Dodd-Frank capably, carefully, and with great consideration of the many American households in my district, Missouri’s Fifth, and around the country, who suffered as a result of falling asset prices, tightening credit, and increasing unemployment. As legislators, regulators, and other policymakers continue to evaluate capital, risk, and solvency standards, let’s agree on a few principles. Let’s do our best to understand risk not just in theory, but in practice. Let’s not be afraid of regulation or reform, but let us approach them both regularly and reasonably. And let’s be ready to cooperate and coordinate on all levels—House and Senate, Democratic and Republican, national and international, regulatory and legislative, and so on and so forth. Thank you. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
04.27.2015	On Thursday, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II met with Secretary Julián Castro to push for closing the Digital Divide. Congressman Cleaver and Secretary Castro discussed many topics in a wide-ranging conversation, including affordable housing, rural development, and energy efficiency in homes. Congressman Cleaver thanked Secretary Castro for the Department’s proposed demonstration project to tackle the problem of the digital divide. He asked the Secretary to include within the demonstration the ability for public housing agencies to help cover the cost of internet access for residents— as they would any other utility. “The digital divide is, at its heart, an issue that only perpetuates existing social and economic inequality,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “It is past time that public policy reflect the reality of how the internet is used: as an essential service for everyday life. We must address the problem of the digital divide not only in our schools, libraries, and community gathering places, but also in the home. Secretary Castro has worked to raise the profile of the digital divide within the Department and among housing stakeholders, and I urge him to continue this good work. I would like to thank Secretary Castro for launching a demonstration project to get the Department of Housing and Urban Development directly involved in tackling the tough problem of the digital divide. I look forward to continuing to work with the Department and with my colleagues in Congress to find solutions, and close the digital divide once and for all.” As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, one of the Congressman’s key priorities will be to address the digital divide from a housing perspective. One survey revealed that ninety-four percent of recruiters use or plan to use the internet to find potential employees. In Kansas City, seventy percent of Kansas City Public School students lacked internet access at home. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
04.24.2015	Today, Congressman Cleaver released this comment in response to the Department of Veterans Affairs’ change to Choice Program Eligibility: “As an early supporter of the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Veterans Choice Program, I have worked to expand access to veterans living in Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties and to veterans across Missouri’s Fifth District,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Veterans will now be eligible based on the driving distance to their nearest VA medical facility, not based on an arbitrary straight line on a map. While I applaud the change the VA has made, we must now work to ensure each facility within forty miles of a veteran’s home is equipped to provide the services that veteran needs. Our men and women who have served and sacrificed deserve this and so much more.” In his letter to House and Senate Budget Conferees, Congressman Cleaver pushed for this kind of change. He wrote, “Veterans who live in rural settings, like many of my constituents, must drive far distances in order to receive care at VA facilities. Section 301 of H.R. 3230 addresses expanded availability of care to veterans, specifically veterans who reside more than 40 miles from the nearest medical facility. I respectfully request that this language be maintained through your negotiations and strengthened to specify that should the medical facility within 40 miles of a veteran’s residence not be specialized in treating their ailment this eligibility would apply to them as well.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, on the 100th day of the new GOP Congress, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, II called on House Republicans to come together and get to work to improve our economy and invest in our infrastructure. “My colleagues across the aisle have spent the first 100 days of this Congress stacking the deck for special interests at the expense of hard-working Missouri families,” said Rep. Cleaver. “To keep our economy growing, we need to create jobs that pay enough for hard-working families to get ahead. Republican policies stick Americans with jobs so low-paying they can’t put food on the table, much less succeed. This Congress continues to drag its feet, delaying debate on a comprehensive transportation bill. My colleagues, it seems, want to give tax cuts to billionaires who don’t need them, rather than invest in our roads, bridges, and transit— which would pave the way for economic growth.” In the first 100 days of the 114th Congress, with control of both the House and the Senate, Republicans have little to show besides manufactured crises, special interest giveaways, and assaults on women, seniors, immigrants, and hard-working families. The Republican Congress brought the Department of Homeland Security close to the brink of a shutdown, endangering the security of our entire nation to satisfy the angriest anti-immigrant voices in their party. House Republicans have launched unprecedented attacks on women’s health care, insisted on deporting young DREAMers, and pushed for a budget that would end the Medicare guarantee and hand a $200,000 tax break to millionaires while raising taxes by $2,000 on middle class families. “It is possible and preferable for Republicans and Democrats to work together and embrace true bipartisanship and good governance. If Republicans would take yes for an answer and work together with Democrats to make it easier to buy a home, easier to send a kid to college, and easier to have a secure and enjoyable retirement, our country would be far better off,” said Rep. Cleaver. “I will continue to stand for the hard-working people of Missouri, and fight for a bright future of opportunity and prosperity for every American – not just the wealthy and well connected.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
03.31.2015	This month, Google officially announced a much-needed re-opening of its sign-up and outreach process. This change will allow anyone living within an existing Fiberhood to sign up for the service. The new changes include the “basic internet” option, which is a free five Mbps internet service after a $300 construction fee. “In an effort to make internet access more accessible to the digitally divided, last month I asked Google to reopen the Fiber sign-up and outreach process, especially in underserved areas,” stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Over the last few years, our community has seen a drastic transformation in internet affordability and speed. But with as many as twenty-five percent of our residents lacking internet access at home, it is clear that we need to do more to ensure that these benefits are enjoyed by all. I welcome these latest changes. With each positive step we take, we move forward toward accessible and affordable internet access for all. Although our community has made great strides in internet access and affordability over the past several years, it is clear that more work remains to be done. I look forward to working with Google and other long serving providers in the community to ensure we truly close the digital divide in Kansas City.” "While we've had an enthusiastic response from customers in all of our Fiberhoods, we've also heard that many residents want another chance to sign up. And we'd like to bring Google Fiber to as many of these residents as possible. By reopening signups, we’re giving them another shot to sign up for any of our three product offerings," said Kelly Carnago, City Manager, Google Fiber Kansas City. "We appreciate Rep. Cleaver's engagement on helping to promote digital inclusion on behalf of the people of Kansas City. Working together, and joining forces with other stakeholders, we can have an even greater impact." On March 30, 2011, after a competitive selection process, both Kansas City, Missouri and Kansas City, Kansas were selected as launch sites for the Fiber project. By September 2012, the results of the pre-registration process were clear. Nearly all the neighborhoods that failed to qualify for the service were located east of Troost Avenue, the city’s historical socioeconomic dividing line. According to the Wall Street Journal, just ten percent of low-income neighborhoods subscribed to 1 gigabit Google Fiber and five percent to the 5 megabit service. In comparison, forty-two percent of residents in middle and higher income neighborhoods took advantage of the 1 gigabit service, while eleven percent use the slower option. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, II announced that today, one day after the fifth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), a new report from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) shows that hundreds of thousands of people in Missouri are benefiting from this landmark health care law. “Over the last five years since the ACA was signed into law, millions of Americans have benefitted from it. Costs are down, and coverage has improved,” Congressman Cleaver stated. “People with pre-existing conditions are now protected. Seniors are saving money on their medications. More and more people are able to access and afford insurance. The ACA is helping millions of Americans focus on their jobs and quality of life, instead of worrying about what will happen if they and their family members get hurt or sick.” Five years after President Obama signed the ACA into law, it is clear that it is succeeding: Improving Coverage: Nationwide, since the enactment of the ACA, 16.4 million previously uninsured Americans have secured affordable, quality health coverage. Improving Affordability: Since the ACA was enacted, health care prices have risen at the slowest rate in nearly half-a-century. Thanks to exceptionally slow growth in per-person costs throughout our health care system, national health expenditures grew at the slowest rate on record from 2010 through 2013. Improving Quality: The ACA has helped improve the quality of health care, contributing to 50,000 fewer patient deaths in hospitals due to avoidable harms, like an infection or medication error. “Republicans continue to call for the complete repeal of the Affordable Care Act,” Rep. Cleaver added. “It is important that we don't use the debate over health care to deepen our divisions. For all Americans, the states and the federal government must continue to work together to make sure healthcare is functional, full, and fair. I will keep fighting to fully implement the law and ensure that my constituents have the health security and economic security they deserve.” Today, HHS released a new report that highlights the ways in which the people in the state of Missouri are benefiting from the ACA. While the Missouri legislature has not moved forward with the much-needed Medicaid expansion, the rest of the law has helped many Missourians. Here are some of the key findings: Drop in uninsured rate in Missouri under the ACA. The uninsured rate in Missouri has fallen from 15.2 percent in 2013 to 13.4 percent in 2014. Marketplace coverage of individuals in Missouri. For 2015, 253,430 consumers have enrolled in quality, affordable health insurance coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace. 88 percent of those enrolled qualified for a tax credit that will help them afford their coverage. Medicaid/CHIP coverage for additional individuals in Missouri. As of January 2015, 17,567 individuals in Missouri have gained Medicaid or CHIP coverage since the beginning of ACA enrollment in October 2013. Savings in premiums for individuals in Missouri. The ACA contains provisions that prevent insurers from spending more than 20% of their premiums on profits and administrative overhead. Because of these protections, 352,661 individuals in Missouri with private insurance coverage have benefited from $14,609,316 in refunds from insurance companies. Elimination of lifetime limits on coverage for individuals in Missouri. Since September 2010, the ACA has prohibited insurers from placing a lifetime limit on coverage. As a result, 2,148,000 people, including 792,000 women and 581,000 children, are now free from worrying about lifetime limits on coverage. Protection for individuals with pre-existing conditions in Missouri. Since January 2014, the ACA has prohibited insurers from denying coverage to individuals for having a pre-existing health condition. Because of this provision, up to 1,211,407 individuals with pre-existing conditions are now protected. Expanded access to free preventive services for individuals in private plans in Missouri. Since September 2010, the ACA has provided expanded access to free preventive services for those enrolled in most private plans. As a result, 1.5 million individuals in private plans in Missouri now have health insurance that covers preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductible. Lower drug costs for seniors in Missouri. The health care law is providing major savings in drug costs for seniors, closing the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ over 10 years. Because of this provision, seniors have saved a total of $297,137,358 on their prescription drugs since 2010. Free preventive services for seniors in Missouri. Since 2011, Medicare now provides free coverage of key preventive services, such as mammograms and colonoscopies. In 2014 alone, because of this provision, 815,675 seniors and people with disabilities enrolled in Medicare used one or more free preventive services. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
03.09.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of Selma, and in response to the tragic events of Ferguson, announced his plan to introduce a bill to ban criminal and traffic law enforcement activities motivated by revenue raising purposes. Announcing introduction of the Fair Justice Act, Congressman Cleaver stated, "The time has come to end the practice of using law enforcement as a cash register, a practice that has impacted too many Americans and has disproportionately affected minority and low-income communities. No American should have to face arbitrary police enforcement, the sole purpose of which is to raise revenue for a town, city, or state.” Congressman Cleaver's Fair Justice Act would make it a civil rights violation, punishable by up to five years in prison, to enforce criminal or traffic laws solely to raise revenue. Thus, no official or agency of a state or a county, city, town or other political subdivision may adopt a policy or engage in any activity that authorizes, promotes, or executes the enforcement of criminal, civil, or traffic laws for the purpose of raising revenue. This legislation will help prevent the kind of reprehensible activities that occurred in Ferguson, Missouri, where the Department of Justice found that Ferguson's law enforcement practices were shaped by the city's overwhelming focus on raising revenue rather than protecting the public. “It is a common practice of certain law enforcement officials of state and local municipalities to target communities solely for profit,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Americans of all stripes have faced this, but there can be no doubt that minorities and low-income residents have faced the brunt of this. Make no mistake, the Fair Justice Act is needed now more than ever, in order to finally put an end to criminal and traffic law enforcement activities motivated solely by raising revenue,” said Congressman Cleaver. Last week, Attorney General Eric Holder announced the results of the Department of Justice’s investigation of the Ferguson police department. The report provided a searing account of unconstitutional police practices motivated by the purpose of generating revenue. The DOJ reported that police work disproportionately targeted minorities in generating revenue from fines and fees, rather than protecting the community. President Barack Obama recently stated, in light of the report, that, “[w]hat we saw was that the Ferguson Police Department, in conjunction with the municipality, saw traffic stops, arrests, tickets as a revenue generator, as opposed to serving the community, and that it systematically was biased against African-Americans in that city who were stopped, harassed, mistreated, abused, called names, fined.” Additionally, The U.S. Department of Justice report on the Ferguson Police Department offers examples of other unfortunate incidents in recent years outside of Ferguson and across the United States: In Jennings, Missouri a new lawsuit alleges that the court system has almost exclusively black defendants, who are routinely sent to jail for failing to pay minor traffic fines. In Alabama, which has made heavy budget cuts to court funding, several lawsuits contend that local courts perpetuate a cycle of steep fines for minor offenses, and jail those who cannot pay. In California, residents in the predominantly Latino community of southeast L.A. County have complained for years that they are unfairly targeted by city officials for profit. Citizens allege that the city extracted tens of thousands of dollars from plumbers, carpet cleaners, even people scavenging for bottles and cans, by seizing vehicles for alleged code violations, and then pressuring the owners to pay arbitrary fines. Additionally, it was reported that local law enforcement officers targeted immigrants in the U.S. without proper papers by using towing schemes. Police would pull over drivers simply to impound their cars, forcing the drivers to pay large impound fees. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
02.26.2015	Today, in remarks to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) commended the Bureau in its effort to make markets for consumer financial products and services work for all Americans, and urged the CFPB to remain steadfast in efforts to protect consumers. “In the richest country in the world, the American Dream is far out of reach for far too many,” said Congressman Cleaver. “The CFPB is not fighting to ensure that everyone has equal outcomes, but to ensure that we begin at the same starting line. For the first time, one regulator, the CFPB, has a clear mandate to protect consumers and service members, with the authority to identify and stop unfair, deceptive, or abusive practices by financial institutions, address consumer complaints, and enforce laws that outlaw discrimination and other unfair treatment in consumer finance. We must keep working with consumers, lenders, and regulators to make sure consumers get a fair shot. We must help banks work with families buying their first home. We must allow entrepreneurs to access capital responsibly. And we must keep our financial system safe and secure. I urge the CFPB to remain steadfast in the fight for fairness.” The CFPB was established by Congress in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The CFPB is called to protect consumers by carrying out federal consumer financial laws. Their duties include: writing rules, supervising companies, and enforcing federal consumer financial protection laws; restricting unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices; taking consumer complaints; promoting financial education; researching consumer behavior; monitoring financial markets for new risks to consumers; and enforcing laws that outlaw discrimination and other unfair treatment in consumer finance. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
02.10.2015	Cleaver signaled support for affordable housing, energy efficient housing, and bridging the digital divide in his remarks Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) today spoke to attendees at Habitat for Humanity’s annual conference. In his remarks, Congressman Cleaver emphasized the need to expand affordable housing, to increase both rural and urban development, and to encourage energy efficient and green housing. Rep. Cleaver received a standing ovation following his speech. U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro also offered remarks. “I am grateful today to meet and speak to such inspiring individuals, who advocate for one of our most basic needs as a people,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “Food, shelter, clothing—these are the basic needs for life. A home can enhance someone’s ‘somebodiness.’ Having a roof over your head means safety, security, and something more—a place to call your own. That’s the American Dream. We have to turn our nation around by touching people’s lives, and Habitat for Humanity does that. In my district in Missouri, one of the original ten established Habitat affiliates, Habitat for Humanity Kansas City is hard at work, delivering dreams. Habitat KC has completed more than 300 homes for families in the Kansas City urban core. In 2013, Habitat for Humanity Truman Heritage successfully built twenty new homes to help with neighborhood stabilization in the city of Independence. Clearly, there is still a need for men and women who get up each morning with the sole goal of helping people. We in Congress must follow their lead. We must avoid the dangerous and damaging temptation to drift into a red state/blue state divide, and instead we must find common ground. Only together can we truly help those in need, and to put the American Dream in everyone’s reach—not just that of a wealthy few.” Additionally, Congmessman Cleaver today announced his priorities as Ranking Member. They are as follows: Working to promote affordable housing opportunity for all Americans – including low to moderate income families and young Americans, Protecting the Fair Housing Act, Maintaining and expanding rural housing for rural Americans, Promoting energy efficiency and weatherization, and Providing digital access to all by bridging the digital divide. Congressman Cleaver was elected Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance on January 21, 2015. Millard and Linda Fuller founded Habitat for Humanity International in 1976. Today, Habitat for Humanity is a true world leader in addressing the issues of poverty housing. In 1984, former U.S. President Jimmy Carter and his wife Rosalynn took their first Habitat work trip, the Jimmy Carter Work Project, to New York City. Habitat has helped build or repair more than 800,000 houses and served more than 4 million people around the world. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high-resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
02.05.2015	Today, Congressman Cleaver called on Google to expand internet access in low-income communities. On March 30, 2011, after a competitive selection process, both Kansas City, Missouri and Kansas City, Kansas were selected as launch sites for the Fiber project. By September 2012, the results of the pre-registration process were clear. Nearly all the neighborhoods that failed to qualify for the service were located east of Troost Avenue, the city’s historical socioeconomic dividing line. “Without a doubt, the investment that Google has made into Fiber in Kansas City has been an economic and entrepreneurial boon,” stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “And while programs such as the Digital Inclusion Fund are making a real impact, the twenty-five percent of Kansas Citians who do not have internet access at home are being left behind. Digital registration for the digital-divided has proved to be ineffective. Preliminary statistics suggest the beginning of potential ‘digital redlining’ in Kansas City. As Google Fiber expands into new cities, Google remains uniquely positioned to be a leader in closing the digital divide. As the newly appointed Ranking Democratic Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, one of my top priorities will be to ensure that low-income and vulnerable communities have the resources they need to succeed and remain free from digital redlining. I urge Google to work with the Kansas City Housing Authority, among other community stakeholders, to address this problem. Together, we can make Kansas City the national model for connecting the unconnected, and expanding opportunity for our constituents and communities.” Congressman Cleaver’s letter is available here. According to the Wall Street Journal, just 10 percent of low-income neighborhoods subscribed to 1 gigabit Google Fiber and 5 percent to the 5 megabit service. In comparison, 42 percent of residents in middle and higher income neighborhoods took advantage of the 1 gigabit service, while 11 percent use the slower option. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
02.02.2015	Today, U.S. Representatives Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) and Al Green (TX-09) announced that President Obama has included funding for body cameras in his FY2016 budget. “Both the police and the public benefit when the police have the best tools and training to fulfill their mission,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. “Body cameras are one part of a broader solution to keep our communities safe and promote accountability. With these tools, we can protect the rights of all parties involved and provide better evidence for any police investigation, whether that is for citizens or for an officer.” “I thank President Obama for his leadership on this issue and wholeheartedly support his administration’s efforts to provide funding for police body cameras,” said Congressman Al Green. “I, along with many people of good will, believe that having our officers wear body cameras can bring much-needed additional transparency and protect officers against specious allegations. Presently, numerous major police departments around the country have conducted studies, introduced pilot programs, or require officers to wear body cameras. Currently, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver and I are working on the Camera Authorization and Maintenance-Transparency in Policing Act (CAM-TIP) of 2015, so that Congress can join with the President on the issue of transparency and accountability in law enforcement.” On December 11, 2014, Congressman Cleaver introduced H.R. 5865, the Camera Authorization and Maintenance Act or CAM Act, to encourage the use of body cameras by law enforcement agencies across the country. Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Green are working together to introduce body camera legislation in the 114th Congress. Congressman Cleaver wrote to President Obama in January to secure funding for body cameras and community policing. That letter is available here. The President’s new Community Policing Initiative aims to build and sustain trust between law enforcement and the people they serve. The President’s FY2016 Budget provides $97 million to expand training and oversight for local law enforcement, increase the use of body-worn cameras, provide additional opportunities for police department reform, and facilitate community and law enforcement engagement in ten pilot sites, with additional technical assistance and training for dozens of communities and police departments across the Nation. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.29.2015	After a personal call with Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Richard Cordray, U.S. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver today announced that the CFPB will propose changes to existing mortgage rules to promote responsible lending by small creditors, especially in rural and underserved areas. If finalized, the proposal would increase the number of financial institutions able to offer certain kinds of mortgages in rural and underserved areas, and help small creditors adjust their business practices to comply with the new rules. Congressman Cleaver, now the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, first pushed for these changes in April of 2013. “Community banks did not cause our financial crisis, and we shouldn’t ask them to pay the penalty,” stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “I have pushed for protections for these smaller institutions, who play a vital role in Missouri’s Fifth District, so they can keep serving rural consumers. The Ability-to-Repay Rule started as a well-intentioned rule, but it was combined with a narrow exception and some worrisome execution. But the previous exemption relied upon a narrow definition that treated our thriving rural communities as mere suburbs of Kansas City. That may mean little to folks up in Washington, but it means much to me and my constituents. While I have not agreed with every decision the CFPB has made, today I am impressed and encouraged by their ability to educate, regulate, and accommodate different constituencies and interests. Ultimately, we must keep working with consumers, lenders, and regulators to make sure consumers get a fair shake, to help banks work with families buying their first home, to allow entrepreneurs to access capital responsibly, and to keep our financial system safe and secure.” Congressman Cleaver originally met with rural bankers from Missouri's Lafayette County and Saline County, in April of 2013. Many of the local bankers shared their concerns with the regulatory burden imposed by the CFPB’s Qualified Mortgage/Ability-To-Repay rule. Immediately after this meeting, Congressman Cleaver wrote to Director Cordray, urging that the rule be re-evaluated and recommending a more expansive definition. His letter to Director Cordray is available here. In response to such concerns, the Bureau announced in May 2013 whether the definitions of rural and underserved should be adjusted. More information about the rule is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, and also a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.21.2015	A framed photo of the two-room shack, where Congressman Cleaver spent the first few years of his life, hangs in his Congressional office. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement today on his election as the Ranking Democratic Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, which is part of the House Committee on Financial Services: “Today, my colleagues have elected me to lead Democrats on the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance. Since my election to Congress, I have been privileged to serve on the House Committee on Financial Services. I am grateful for the opportunity to serve in this new role, and eager to lead on an issue that has been important to me my entire life. “The American Dream, to many Americans, is a simple one. Many tire and toil just to have an opportunity to raise their family in a place they can call their very own home. My family, including my three sisters and mother and father, lived in a two-room shack in Waxahachie, Texas. When I was a child, we moved to public housing in nearby Wichita Falls. My father worked three jobs so he could eventually buy the home he still resides in today. My family’s story is the American story, and one of uplifting success. Many other American families have not been so fortunate. “Our housing market is recovering but still struggling to gain momentum. We have more work to do to increase opportunities for families around the country; to expand access to housing for both urban and rural communities; to preserve the Fair Housing Act; to end homelessness; to monitor government-sponsored insurance programs, including flood insurance, terrorism risk insurance, and private mortgage insurance; and to ensure low-income and vulnerable communities have the resources they need to succeed, the access to civic, social, and economic opportunities they deserve, and the freedom from digital redlining. With Republicans in charge of Congress, and a Democratic President in the White House, there is a unique opportunity for us to work together on federal housing policy. I look forward to working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues on these and other important housing and insurance issues.” The Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance oversees the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (which includes the Federal Housing Administration), the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae), the Rural Housing Service (RHS) at the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) at the Department of Treasury. The subcommittee considers matters related to rental housing, community and economic development, homeownership, and rural housing issues. The subcommittee also handles matters related to government-sponsored insurance programs, including the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program and private mortgage insurance. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.15.2015	In a letter to the White House, Congressman Cleaver urged President Obama to include $4.7 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in the President's Fiscal Year 2016 budget. “This winter, as Missourians weather low temperatures and high heating bills, LIHEAP is absolutely critical,” stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “This effective and essential program helps millions of vulnerable Americans with their home heating and cooling costs. Funding for LIHEAP has fallen, and energy prices, while decreasing, are uncertain. Increased heating costs during extreme winter months place severe strains on household budgets, leading families to make trade-offs between energy, food, or medicine.” Last year, 460,000 households in Missouri were eligible for assistance, and yet only about 146,000 of the eligible families received LIHEAP assistance. In Missouri, low-income households pay an average of forty-six percent of their gross pay on housing and energy costs, and those families at fifty percent of the federal poverty line may pay up to 54% of their income just on energy. Nearly ninety percent of LIHEAP recipient households have a senior over sixty years of age, children, or an individual with disabilities. Missourians living at 135 percent of the federal poverty line are eligible for LIHEAP assistance. For a family of three that is only $26,717 in annual income. Market expectations of oil price uncertainty have increased in recent months, with the decline in oil prices, but government projections indicate prices will rise in mid-2015. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.12.2015	Today, Congressman Cleaver sent a letter to President Obama supporting the inclusion of body cameras and community policing in the upcoming President’s Budget Proposal for Fiscal Year 2016. “The tragic events that unfolded in Ferguson, Missouri should not be repeated,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “We can work to do this by giving our local police officers the best tools and training available to protect and serve our communities. This funding would be a great step to increase transparency and accountability for both law enforcement, and also the public. Make no mistake, to help communities pay for the cameras, the federal government should step up and support the effort.” These tools would be funded under the Department of Justice's Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program for the Fiscal Year 2016 budget. The letter is available here. On December 11, 2014, Congressman Cleaver introduced H.R. 5865, the Camera Authorization and Maintenance Act or CAM Act, to encourage the use of body cameras by law enforcement agencies across the country. The bill will soon be reintroduced in the 114th Congress. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
12.16.2014	KANSAS CITY, MO – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce that yesterday, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) unveiled their intent to allow Southwest Airlines to permanently operate a route from Kansas City International Airport (MCI) to Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA). The airline had previously been running a daily nonstop flight between the two cities on a temporary basis, since February 1, 2014. Frontier Airlines had previously operated this route before its sale in January. Congressman Cleaver, along with other Members of the Missouri and Kansas Congressional Delegation, wrote a letter to Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in March in support of Southwest’s application to maintain the slot on a permanent basis. In addition, the Congressman personally spoke to Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and emphasized his strong support of the route. “This is a great victory for the entire region, because this is a connection to our nation's capital for the constituents of Missouri's Fifth District, and for the entire region,” Congressman Cleaver stated. “Southwest’s MCI-DCA service is clearly in the public interest, providing additional options for travelers and a greater number of available seats between the two cities and connecting across the nation.” More than 2.4 million people who reside and work in the Kansas City metropolitan area can now rely on this daily, nonstop service. Southwest currently utilizes a 143-seat Boeing 737-700 aircraft for the route, providing approximately fifty percent of the seats in this market in just one daily roundtrip flight. The Congressman looks forward to the ease with which Missourians and Kansans can travel to our nation’s capital on a permanent basis. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information: John Jones – john.jones2@mail.house.gov (202) 225-4535
12.12.2014	The “Cam Act” Requires State and Local Law Enforcement Agencies Who Receive DOJ Grants Have Their Officers Wear a Body Camera. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II has introduced The "Camera Authorization and Maintenance Act of 2014" or the "CAM Act," a bill to encourage police officers to wear a body camera. "This legislation is important to any and all members of the public who encounter a law enforcement officer, and it is important for the officers themselves," said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. "The goal is to increase transparency, protect the rights of all parties involved, and to provide better evidence for any police investigation, both for the citizens and the officers." The bill would: Require that all state and local law enforcement agencies who receive Department of Justice grants have their officers wear a body camera. Create a grant program to help agencies purchase the equipment. Set guidelines for the use of body cameras. Create a task force to study and make recommendations on community policing and to determine protocol in body camera training. The task force is also required to study the effectiveness of the usage of body cameras one year after implementation of the policy and the impact that citizen review boards could have on police misconduct. Provide for a report on the Department of Defense 1033 program. Due to the impending end of the 113th Congress, this legislation will be reintroduced in the 114th Congress. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.04.2014	Kansas City - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, Missouri's Fifth District Representative, is bringing further national recognition to our area, and to the groundbreaking work being done at the Liberty Memorial and National World War I Museum. For years, the Congressman has successfully led the effort to get the appropriate designation for the Liberty Memorial – soon to be known as America's National World War I Museum and Memorial. Now - by way of an update -- Congressman Cleaver's designation effort, which is part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), passed the House of Representatives, by a vote of 300-119. The NDAA is now on its way to the Senate. Spearheaded by Congressman Cleaver, the 112th Congress also established the WWI Centennial Commission. The Commission is planning, developing, and executing programs, projects, and activities to commemorate the centennial of World War I. The provision that passed today also broadens the scope of that Commission, which will increase its depth, and continue growing national awareness about the museum -- and all it has to offer. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.02.2014	The American Veterans Centennial Commemorative Coin Act, introduced by Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) and Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05), and cosponsored by 301 other Members, passed the House today by a vote of 418 to 3. “This bill allows us to pay tribute to the end of World War I battlefield hostilities while honoring the memory, service, and sacrifice of over four million outstanding Americans,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “The year 2018 marks the 100th anniversary of the signing of the armistice with Germany, ending World War I battlefield hostilities. It’s taken far too long for us to adequately honor the more than four million men and women from the United States who served during World War I. Now is the time to pay our tribute.” Video of Congressman Cleaver speaking in favor of the bill on the House Floor is available here. The legislation, H.R. 2366, directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of this centennial. The United States has used commemorative coins to memorialize its significant conflicts, including the Civil War, World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War. Until now, no coin existed to honor the brave veterans of World War I. Funds raised from the sale of the coins will support the World War I Centennial Commission. Led by Congressman Cleaver, the 112th Congress established the WWI Centennial Commission to plan, develop, and execute programs, projects, and activities to commemorate the centennial of World War I. The commission has not been authorized any federal taxpayer dollars and is funded through donations and potential coin sales. In addition to the American Veterans Centennial Commemorative Coin Act, Congressman Cleaver secured passage of an amendment to designate the Liberty Memorial at America's National World War I Museum in Kansas City, Missouri, as the “National World War I Museum and Memorial.” The amendment will redesignate Pershing Park in Washington, DC as the “National World War I Memorial.” The amendment, part of the National Defense Authorization Act, is up for final consideration this week. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. A high resolution photo of Congressman Cleaver is available here.
12.01.2014	Today, President Obama released the Administration’s Review of Federal Support for Local Law Enforcement Equipment Acquisition. This review is part of a broader effort to strengthen community policing and fortify the trust that must exist between law enforcement officers and the communities they serve. “In the weeks and months since the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, I have worked, along with Congressman Clay, to spur a fundamental shift in local law enforcement, away from military-style response and toward a community-based, proportionate-response style of policing,” stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Our local police officers and law enforcement deserve the best tools and training available to protect and serve our communities. But we should not turn our cities into warzones. Today’s announcement is a positive first step, and I am encouraged to hear that many of the most important priorities we have championed will move forward. Additionally, I am pleased and proud to see that the White House has included, as examples, many of the recommendations and strategies Congressman Clay and I put forth this past August.” The White House has provided several examples of potential improvements, including: ensuring that all equipment available for acquisition by law enforcement agencies has a legitimate civilian law enforcement purpose; including training requirements that address appropriate use and deployment of equipment; broadening transparency of the 1033 and other agency equipment repurpose programs; and requiring police officers to wear body cameras. On August 21, 2014, Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Clay authored a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel calling for a review of the 1033 program. On August 22, 2014, Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Clay met with Secretary Hagel to discuss in depth the militarization of local law enforcement. The conversation, which was productive and positive, addressed urgent concerns about the militarization of local law enforcement agencies through the distribution of surplus Department of Defense equipment via the 1033 Program. Both Members asked the Secretary to review the program and to respond with his recommendations quickly. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
11.25.2014	"My wife and I have raised three sons, and we know the challenges a young, black man faces growing up. Our heart goes out to Michael Brown's family for their tragic loss. Without a doubt, there are important issues in this country that need to be confronted, communicated, and worked through in the spirit of community," said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. "But violence, looting, and arson are not the answer. Not even close. We sacrifice the safety of others by creating chaos --instead of pursuing a path that protects the rights of all Americans -- regardless of color." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
10.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C., October 20, 2014 – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II received the “Spirit of America” award from jobs4america and PACE for his efforts in contributing to the creation of over 100,000 customer service jobs in the United States. The award was presented to Cleaver by Matt Zemon, chairman jobs4america and Phillip Grudzinski, president and CEO of Professional Association of Customer Engagement during ceremonies at the PACE Leadership Summit in Washington, D.C. today. “I am honored to receive this prestigious award from jobs4america and PACE for what it represents—putting American citizens back to work with meaningful jobs and hope for a brighter future,” said Cleaver. “Our work is far from done and we will continue our critical mission of helping people in this state and country become fully employed.” “In just the past 18 months, jobs4america has exceeded its target of creating 100,000 new customer service jobs in the United States by more than 76,000 and of that total 3,389 have been generated in Missouri,” said Zemon who is also CEO of American Support. “We salute Congressman Cleaver for his on-going efforts on behalf of American contact center workers to support job expansion and economic growth in our communities.” “Congressman Cleaver has been a staunch supporter of public-private sector cooperation to provide needed jobs for U.S. workers,” said Grudzinski. “His dedication to job growth has assisted workers beyond the 5th congressional district in Missouri and is a model for the nation. Since 2013, economic development efforts in Missouri has enabled the state to increase customer service jobs at such firms as Aegis, APAC, AT&T, Charter, Expedia, Express Scripts, New Balance, Servco, Teletech, and T-Mobile.” The “Spirit of America” award sculpture was created by American artist Kitty Cantrell and features two porcelain eagles in flight embedded in crystal representing the team-work required to strengthen our communities and advance human progress. About jobs4america: Founded in 2012, jobs4america is a coalition of forward-looking business leaders committed to creating jobs in America. In their first two years, jobs4america was able to create more than 176,000 new U.S. based contact center jobs, exceeding their original 100,000 job goal. Jobs4america advocates the value of U.S. based workers to enhance customer experiences and the U.S. economy. Jobs4america’s current goal is to create another 100,000 new U.S. based contact center jobs by December 31, 2015. Jobs4america invites like-minded companies, big and small to join in their goal of creating U.S. based jobs. For further information visit: www.jobs4america.net About PACE: The Professional Association for Customer Engagement (PACE) is the only non-profit trade organization dedicated exclusively to the advancement of companies that utilize multi-channel customer engagement support services as an integral channel of operations. PACE members include companies with inbound or outbound contact centers, users of contact centers, trainers, consultants, and equipment suppliers who initiate, facilitate, and generate telephone, Internet, and e-mail sales, chat service and support. For further information visit: www.paceassociation.com Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee’s Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
10.17.2014	Kansas City, MO – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) announced the details of a friendly wager over the World Series between the Kansas City Royals and the San Francisco Giants. As passionate fans and competitive colleagues, the Members of Congress agreed to a battle for bragging rights and local delicacies. If the Royals win, Pelosi will provide the Kansas City Congressman with a basket of the finest chocolates from San Francisco. If the Giants win, Cleaver will provide the Democratic Leader a President’s BBQ Platter from Kansas City’s own Gates BBQ. “The San Francisco Giants are a worthy team, but they underestimate the Kansas City Royals at their peril,” said Congressman Cleaver. “With their spirit, their skill, and their sweeping victory in the ALCS, the Royals will surely succeed in the World Series. I don’t usually gamble, but I will make an exception and wager some of the finest barbecue Kansas City, Missouri has to offer. Victory shall be sweet indeed.” "There are many savory delights that Kanas City has to offer and I can’t wait to savor them, but nothing would be sweeter than a Giants victory. In that spirit, I wager a bountiful basket of San Francisco chocolates," said Leader Pelosi. “The Royals are a fine team, but they are no match for the talent, toughness, and heart of our Giants. I look forward to enjoying the Giants’ latest championship with some fine Kansas City BBQ.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
10.08.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II has called for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to provide assistance and information on the outbreak of the Enterovirus D68 (EV-D68). This virus, associated with extreme respiratory illness, has reportedly infected six hundred and twenty-eight people across the country. “The health and wellbeing of my constituents is my highest priority,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “I am particularly saddened and troubled by the fact that this virus strikes children in great numbers. I am hopeful that the CDC will work to curtail the spread of EV-D68 and help those impacted with the illness recover. I ask that the CDC develop a comprehensive Enterovirus detection and treatment plan, which should include frequent and updated information on the status of this infection, and steps my constituents can take to best protect their families.” The number of those infected with Enterovirus D68 grows daily and the first reported death occurred just days ago. Children have been most susceptible to EV-D68, with the first cases reported in Missouri’s Fifth District. The United States is currently experiencing a nationwide outbreak of EV-D68 associated with severe respiratory illness. One local hospital saw a twenty five percent increase in outpatients with respiratory illness last month. Many state health departments are currently investigating increases in cases of severe respiratory illness in children. The increases could be caused by many different viruses that are common during this time of year. EV-D68 appears to be the predominant type of Enterovirus this year and may be contributing to the increases in severe respiratory illnesses. EV-D68 can cause mild to severe respiratory illness. Mild symptoms may include fever, runny nose, sneezing, cough, and body and muscle aches. Severe symptoms may include wheezing and difficulty breathing. Anyone with respiratory illness should contact their doctor if they are having difficulty breathing or if their symptoms are getting worse. The text of the letter is as follows: October 8, 2014 Dr. Tom Frieden Director Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329 Dear Dr. Frieden: Thank you for your hard work at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in helping to ensure the health safety of our nation. As you know, there is currently a nationwide outbreak of Enterovirus D68 (EV-D68). This virus, associated with extreme respiratory illness, has reportedly infected six hundred and twenty-eight people across the country. The number grows daily and the first reported death occurred just days ago. Children have been most susceptible to EV-D68, with the first cases reported in my Congressional district of Kansas City, Missouri. One local hospital saw a twenty five percent increase in outpatients with respiratory illness last month. Although combatting the international threat of Ebola is a top priority, concern over this outbreak is growing, necessitating the need for increased awareness and action. Many in my district have been impacted by EV-D68, and I would like to share the most updated information regarding known symptoms and treatments with my constituents. I ask that the CDC develop a comprehensive Enterovirus detection and treatment plan, which should include frequent and updated information on the status of this infection, and steps my constituents can take to best protect their families. Additionally, it is critical that the CDC respond to the spread of this virus with the utmost urgency. The health and well-being of our constituencies is a crucial component to the strength of our country. I am hopeful that the CDC will work to curtail the spread of EV-D68 and help those impacted with the illness recover. Sincerely, Emanuel Cleaver, II Member of Congress Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information: John Jones – john.jones2@mail.house.gov (202) 763-3280
09.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce that the Office of Family Assistance within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded $1 million to the Full Employment Council (FEC) of Kansas City, as a 21st Century HealthCare Works Program grant project. “I am thrilled that the Full Employment Council is receiving this grant. The work they do to help put Kansas Citians back to work is essential to the health and wellbeing of so many families.” stated Congressman Cleaver. “These funds will aid job seekers through training and placement services, putting dedicated individuals back to work.” The Full Employment Council operates as a business-led private non-profit corporation, serving residents in Cass, Clay, Jackson, Platte, and Ray Counties by assisting both job seekers and employers. The Council offers career counseling and goal guidance to job seekers, as well as best hiring practices and all-encompassing recruiting and screening aid for businesses and organizations looking to hire. In 2013 the FEC assisted nearly 50,000 people looking for employment and aided companies in hiring more than 25,000 people. More information about the Full Employment Council and the services it provides may be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
09.24.2014	Congressman Cleaver visits Fitzgibbon Hospital with Ron Ott, President and CEO of Fitzgibbon Hospital in Marshall, Missouri WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded nearly $1.8 million dollars to the National Rural Health Association (NRHA), based in Kansas City, as part of the Association’s Rural Health Best Practices and Community Development Cooperative Agreement. “It is critically important to increase the resources available to rural residents, in Missouri’s Fifth District and all around our nation. Make no mistake, these funds will save lives,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “I am thrilled that the NRHA has received this grant to help our nation’s most vulnerable individuals and families.” Today’s announcement of $1,799,829.00 in funds is an annual allocation, as part of a five year plan authorized by HHS. The NRHA, whose headquarters are located in Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, is a national nonprofit membership alliance, consisting of over 20,000 member organizations. The association provides leadership to health care providers facing the unique challenges of a rural environment, including economic inadequacies, cultural differences, educational deficiencies, staffing and funding shortcomings, and the difficulty of distance and isolation. More information about the unique combination of factors that affect rural health care can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
09.18.2014	The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Missouri, working in conjunction with local and federal law enforcement, has filed criminal charges against Eric G. King, alleging that King violated Title 18, United States Code Section 111. King was arrested by the Kansas City Police Department in connection with a separate incident. "Property can be replaced, people cannot. I will be forever grateful that no one was hurt in the senseless attempt recently to destroy my Kansas City office," said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. "I have devoted my entire adult life to preaching, and hopefully living, the belief that civility supersedes viciousness, and the passion for positive outshines the vehemence of violence. I thank the Kansas City Police Department and the many dedicated law enforcement officers involved in this investigation. I am humbled by and grateful to the numerous residents of Missouri's Fifth District, who have reached out with such overwhelming support and concern." The Congressman believes this investigation has been an exceptional collaborative work among the Kansas City Police Department, FBI, ATF, US Capitol Police, Jackson County Prosecutor's Office, and US Attorney Tammy Dickinson and her team. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
09.11.2014	"As has been reported, early this morning, a window was broken at Congressman Cleaver's Kansas City, Missouri office when an individual attempted to throw an item or items at the building," stated John Jones, Chief of Staff to Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. "This is the second incident within the last three years. The Kansas City Police have completed their initial survey of the scene and we await their report. None of the staff was in the building, and because Congress is in session, Congressman Cleaver is in Washington, D.C. We have been in constant contact with the staff, and we thank the Kansas City Police, the Kansas City Bomb and Arson Squad, the FBI, and the ATF for their quick response and thorough work. All of the Congressman’s offices will be open for regular business." John Jones is the Chief of Staff to Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. Rep. Cleaver is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
09.10.2014	Yesterday, the Department of Transportation awarded 1.2 million dollars to the Mid-America Regional Council (MARC) to fund KC Workforce Connex, a critical community engagement effort and study to improve job-housing connectivity via public transit. “Red or blue, urban or rural - we all rely on transportation infrastructure," stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. Ensuring economic prosperity is of paramount importance. It’s not a Republican or Democratic goal, but one we all share, and one where we must succeed. This effort is part of our journey in Missouri’s Fifth District to build a better, balanced, stronger, and more sustainable transportation system.” According to MARC, the recipient of the grant, at its core KC Workforce Connex is centered on improving job access and access to opportunity for all area residents. The initiative, led by the region’s Transit Coordinating Council, will lay the foundation necessary to fully understand our current job access challenges, bring together regional partnerships necessary develop common‐sense solutions, and set the table for action with the goal of doubling the number of regional jobs accessible by transit in the next 10 years. At conclusion the initiative will have: 1. Developed a plan for extending the region’s corridor and transit service framework to connect and link underserved and emerging job markets. 2. Developed specific east‐west, bi‐state, transit service strategies that will better connect our region and help bridge current service, jurisdictional boundaries, and job access gaps. 3. Developed a holistic job‐access strategy that goes beyond public transit to include a range of transportation alternatives. 4. Outlined supportive land use and housing policies and local actions necessary to improve jobs/housing balance and better position future growth to be serviceable by public transportation. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
08.28.2014	In an unprecedented effort, Congressman Cleaver will lead an intra-parliamentary delegation from the United States and Mexico to our nation's Southern border. This fact-finding, cooperative effort will include an operational briefing from on-site officials, a tour of an HHS facility for children, and a first of its kind discussion between the two groups about the dangerous, humanitarian crisis. Representative Cleaver will be joined by Rep. Mark Takano, Rep. Dina Titus, Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham, and Rep. Mike Honda. "There are no easy answers here," said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II, "but that is no excuse for inaction. We must forge a path forward in this country to protect our nation's security and enforce our border, while not turning our backs on these innocent children who are in this heartbreaking situation through no fault of their own." Congressman Cleaver is traveling to the border to call attention to the ongoing humanitarian crisis at our Southern border. Thousands of unaccompanied minors have fled dangerous situations throughout Central America. Once they leave their homes in Honduras, El Salvador, or Guatemala to travel to the United States, they can face even more danger. Groups across the country have spoken out to support and safeguard these children. These groups include those that are faith-based, involved in civil and human rights, immigration, refugee, child welfare, public health, labor, and legal and educational concerns. “These children need our help,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “Some of them are as young as my grandchildren and have been victims of violence themselves. Some have witnessed their families and friends murdered in front of their very own eyes. Some are threatened and beaten, sometimes by those who were paid to bring them safely to the U.S. They face starvation and dehydration, and are forced to sleep wherever they can find a space. I learned of one child who was sleeping on top of a train car. We have to do more. The bipartisan immigration legislation that overwhelmingly passed the Senate over a year ago offers comprehensive answers to the problems with our immigration system.” Members of the House of Representatives will begin their visit at the Hidalgo International Bridge to meet with the delegation of Mexican officials. Following a briefing on border security from CPB officials, the group will depart for the McAllen Border Patrol Station, where they will receive an operational briefing before touring an HHS Children's Facility. The fact-finding mission will conclude with a discussion between Members and the Mexican Chamber of Deputies. Members of the media are invited to join lawmakers at the Embassy Suites McAllen for a press availability at 2:15 CST. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
08.22.2014	NOTE: The following is a first-person statement from Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D) Missouri and Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri. “We are pleased to report that we had a productive, expansive and very encouraging meeting with Secretary Hagel this evening regarding our urgent concerns about the militarization of local law enforcement agencies through the distribution of surplus Department of Defense equipment via the 1033 Program. We have asked the Secretary to review the program and to respond with his recommendations quickly. “The discussion allowed us to share our objections, and those of our constituents, who are seeking a vigorous review of the existing 1033 program, and some important changes to ensure public safety and the preservation of fundamental constitutional rights. That includes the right to assemble and peacefully protest, without the unacceptable threat of an overbearing police response that targets law-abiding citizens with military weapons and technology. “If there is any good that can come out of the tragedy in Ferguson, Missouri, our hope is that this effort will spur a national discussion about how to achieve a fundamental shift in local law enforcement, away from military-style responses, and towards a more community-based policy.” Photo attached, courtesy of U.S. Department of Defense, Petty Officer 2nd Class Sean Hurt. (L-R), Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D) Missouri, Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D) Missouri; Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
08.14.2014	“The community of Ferguson, Missouri is calling for answers over the death of Michael Brown," stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. "I join the call, and I too am deeply disturbed by all I have seen and heard. I join my colleagues, Chairwoman Fudge, Representative Conyers, and Representative Clay in calling for a full federal investigation. Ferguson deserves better, and the rights of our citizens and of our free press shall not be denied. I await the results of the ongoing investigation over Mr. Brown’s death. I will pray for peace in Ferguson. And I will work for justice.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.29.2014	KANSAS CITY, MO. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver will join President Obama at the Uptown Theater in Kansas City, Missouri on Wednesday morning. The President comes to Kansas City to speak on the economy and meet with Missourians who have written to him about issues important to them, including student loan debt relief, the economy, and the Affordable Care Act. “I am pleased the President has returned to Kansas City to talk about our economy, the most important issue for our community and our country,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “I look forward to listening to the President’s remarks. Hard-working families in Missouri’s Fifth District and across our nation demand and deserve a Congress that will work for and listen to them. We need to get past the inaction, our own petty factions and distractions, so we can create jobs, expand opportunity, and strengthen the middle class.” The event is free and open to the public. Tickets have already been distributed. Remarks are scheduled to begin around 11:00 AM. A video of Press Secretary (and native Kansas Citian) Josh Earnest calling and inviting Missourians to dinner with the President is available here. Congressman Cleaver will return to Washington on Air Force One with the President following those remarks. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.25.2014	Today, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) released final grant allocations for critical state and local preparedness programs. The Kansas City, Missouri Metropolitan Area was awarded over $1.4 million. The State of Missouri as a whole was awarded $15 million. “I am pleased to announce that our community will receive over $1.4 million in preparedness funds,” said Congressman Cleaver. “From Orrick to Joplin, these dollars make a difference in preparing for and defending against terrorist attacks and natural disasters. Our law enforcement officers and first responders are doing all they can to prepare, and we must do all we can to give them the tools, training, and techniques they need to do their jobs. And make no mistake, I will continue to work to make sure we get what we need to help, not hamstring, our police officers, firefighters, first responders, and all others dedicating themselves to protecting our community.” The grants allocated today fund a range of preparedness activities, including planning, organization, equipment purchase, training, exercises, and management and administration. Congressman Cleaver has fought for UASI funds for Missouri’s Fifth District year after year. After years of receiving UASI funds, in 2011 and again in 2013, Kansas City received no funds. In August of 2013, Congressman Cleaver reached out to then-Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, to again plead Kansas City’s case. In March of this year, FEMA announced which cities would receive preparedness grants, and Kansas City, Missouri was included as a recipient. A summary of the grants our area and state will receive follows below. Missouri will receive $3,978,000 in State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) funds. This program provides $401,346,000 to support the implementation of State homeland security strategies to address identified planning, organization, equipment, training, and exercise needs to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events. The Kansas City Area will receive $1,000,000 in Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) funds. UASI provides $587,000,000 to address the unique planning, organization, equipment, training, and exercise needs of high-threat, high-density Urban Areas, and assists them in building an enhanced and sustainable capacity to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism. The Kansas City Area will receive $282,457 in Urban Areas Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP) funds. This program provides $13,000,000 in funding support for target hardening and other physical security enhancements and activities to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of terrorist attack and located within one of the specific UASI-eligible Urban Areas. Missouri will receive $6,590,063 in Emergency Management Performance Grants (EMPG) funds. The EMPG program provides $350,100,000 to assist State, local, and tribal governments in preparing for all hazards. The Board of Police Commissioners of Kansas City will receive $49,300 in Port Security Grant Program (PSGP) funds. This program provides $100,000,000 or transportation infrastructure security activities to implement Area Maritime Transportation Security Plans and facility security plans among port authorities, facility operators, and State and local government agencies required to provide port security services. The Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA) will receive $75,000 in Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP) funds. This program provides $90,000,000 to the Nation’s High-Threat Urban Areas for enhancement of security measures at critical transit infrastructure including bus, ferry, and rail systems. Grant guidance for each program will be available at www.grants.gov. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.17.2014	Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II introduced the EASY (Equal Access to Support Youth) Voting Act. This legislation will allow a student to vote in a federal election using their current student photo identification. The bill will also make it a federal crime for any individual to purposely discourage a student from voting by providing false or misleading information. “Voting is a fundamental right, and we as representatives of the people should encourage and embrace the participation of all eligible citizens,” said Congressman Cleaver. “The integrity of our political process must be, above all, beyond reproach. Make no mistake, our nation’s strength and spirit springs from our enduring commitment to a fair, accessible democratic process. At a time when voting rights have been restricted and constricted cross country, the EASY Voting Act is one way we can protect and promote political participation.” Students make up an integral part of the American electorate. However, across the country, state legislatures have been proposing laws targeting college students. 11% of Americans do not have current government issued photo identification. 18% of Americans between the ages of 18-24 lack current government issued photo ID. There is little evidence of the occurrence of voter fraud, and instead of protecting our electoral system, photo identification laws do far more harm than good by disproportionately preventing one of our most vulnerable communities from voting – students. The 26th amendment expanded our electorate by reducing the voting age from 21 to 18. Students should be encouraged to vote, not misled, confused, or outright barred from voting. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.15.2014	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, along with his fellow members of the House Committee on Financial Services, Reps. Dennis Ross (R-FL-3), Sean Duffy (R-WI-7), Jim Himes (D-CT-4), and John Delaney (D-MD-6), today introduced the Pay for Success Affordable Housing Energy Modernization Act, bipartisan legislation that will provide the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) the authority to establish a demonstration program and enter into budget-neutral, performance based agreements that result in the reduction in energy or water costs for multi-family housing. “This bipartisan bill, which I am proud to cosponsor, will increase energy efficiency, help our environment, and reduce utility bills for consumers at no cost to the taxpayer. Creating energy efficient homes has been a priority of mine since the creation of the Green Impact Zone in urban Kansas City, and this bill will further increase energy efficiency for multifamily housing.” Currently, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) spends more than $7 billion in annual energy and water costs. These high costs are attributable in large part to older housing stock that is not energy efficient. Many multi-family buildings are years behind current energy efficient technology and owners lack capital and incentives to invest in updates. Owners of HUD-assisted properties, such as senior housing and housing for persons with disabilities, typically lack both the capital and incentives to perform energy upgrades that could save HUD millions in utility costs. In brief: The legislation would allow HUD to enter into a limited number of agreements with intermediaries that will manage the energy and water upgrades in HUD-assisted properties. Intermediaries will raise private capital from investors, and work with energy service companies (ESCOs) to perform the upgrades. Examples of upgrades include adding insulation, replacing inefficient light and water fixtures and replacing drafty doors and windows. This legislation does not involve any risk to the federal government or the taxpayer. Investors take the first loss position on energy upgrades, which are then analyzed by an independent third party. If savings are not realized, the federal government does not pay. In the event that savings are achieved, they would eventually lower HUD’s energy expenditures and create savings for the federal government. In addition, the private capital investment in this space would create jobs both for the construction and energy efficiency sector. The bill text can be found by clicking here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce that his amendment to the House Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, together with Congressman Patrick Murphy of Florida, just passed unanimously by voice vote on the House floor. The amendment would increase the Army Corps of Engineers Construction Account by $1 million. This funding increase will help flood control projects that communities in Missouri’s Fifth District are fighting to finish. Flood control projects are crucial to protecting lives and maintaining the economic vitality of the Kansas City metro area. Many local projects along the Missouri, Kansas, and Blue Rivers rely on annual funding from the Energy and Water Appropriations to safeguard residents and business against flood damage. Robust funding for the Corps’ Construction Account is vital to get these projects across the finish line. The text of the Congressman’s Floor speech is below: “Thank you, first, Mr. Murphy, and to the Ranking Member and Chair of the Committee. Our amendment would transfer a modest amount, as Mr. Murphy stated, $1 million, between the Corps’ Expenses account to the Construction account. This boost in funding can help flood control projects that communities, including several in my district, that we are pushing in hopes that they can be completed. “The United States has, as I believe we all know, an aging water infrastructure system and a colossal $80 billion backlog in Army Corps projects. Over 1,000 authorized projects vigorously compete for funding. This is understandable when you consider the fact that America’s levees, dams, and inland waterways were given a grade of D by the American Society of Civil Engineers in their 2013 Report Card. How can we expect our economy to flourish when its bedrock is deteriorating? “Water infrastructure funding is vital to my district and it sits at the confluence of several rivers, and flood control projects protect thousands of lives and billions in economic investment. “One such project, Swope Park Industrial Area, lies within a 100-year floodplain. When it floods, access to and from the park is cut off, risking the lives of over 400 workers. Without a 7,000 foot floodwall and levee, those 400 workers and over $61 million in manufacturing remain unprotected. “Another project in my district, Dodson Industrial Park, is ready to start its final phase, but until that that final segment is completed and connected to the rest of the project, the investments of $250 million within the park, remain at risk. “Mr. Chairman, most Army Corps projects contain agreements between the federal government and local communities to share the funding and responsibility for their construction. It is time for the federal government to hold up its end of the agreement, for us to step up to the plate and fully invest in our water infrastructure. I want to thank Mr. Murphy for his collaboration on this amendment and I yield back, Mr. Speaker.” The final version of the Energy and Water Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2015 will be voted on by the House of Representatives tomorrow. Congressman Cleaver’s full speech may be viewed here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information: Michele Rooney – michele.rooney@mail.house.gov (816) 820-9755
07.07.2014	Congressman Cleaver meets with Mark Klein, Export-Import Bank Regional Director from Chicago, center, and Jeff Baker of GE, right, and other local exporters. KANSAS CITY, MO – Earlier today, Congressman Cleaver met with local businesses from across Missouri’s Fifth District, as well as officials from the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. They discussed the current status and hyper-partisan political climate surrounding the Ex-Im Bank, as well as what the bank can do for local businesses. Other countries are salivating at the prospect of what might happen here. We will face a massive exit of jobs in Missouri’s Fifth District. And businesses will be forced to close their doors. These are just some of the dire warnings from area business leaders, who are fearing the worst, as the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank of the United States is hotly debated in Washington. “This is the most important obscure issue in Washington today,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, who called the meeting to hear from constituents and bring attention to this critical issue. The meeting, at Kansas City’s Chamber of Commerce, concluded this afternoon, with various local business leaders, and the Regional Director of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S., Mark Klein, who flew in from Chicago at the Congressman’s request. The Export-Import Bank of the United States is the nation’s official export credit agency. It functions as an independent, self-sustaining government agency, created over 80 years ago to support American jobs by providing a variety of financial products to aid the export of American goods and services. If Congress does not act soon, the Bank may face a lapse in authorization. The Bank was last reauthorized in 2012, and has been reauthorized on a bipartisan basis 16 times since 1945. “Over the last five years, the Ex-Im Bank has supported 1.2 million private-sector, American jobs and generated over $2 billion for U.S. taxpayers, all while costing the taxpayer nothing,” explained Congressman Cleaver. “Reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank is good for Kansas City and good for small businesses, facilitating job growth at home and allowing us to compete in an increasingly competitive global marketplace.” One local, small business president told the Congressman a reauthorization would mean tripling his workforce, while a lapse will mean cutting jobs immediately. Another articulated his apprehension about the future of the local economy, saying, “A lapse would mean no further investments for many of our small businesses, while others will simply have to close their doors altogether. Failing to reauthorize the Bank will mean growth comes to a stop, it will cut us off at the knees.” The Ex-Im Bank does not compete with other lenders in the private sector, but rather fills gaps when commercial lenders are unwilling or unable to provide financing. Approximately 90% of the Bank’s transactions involved small businesses. Additionally, this comparatively small government agency provides financing and insurance not available to some companies from private lenders, and helps U.S. businesses compete in the global market on a level playing field, where many other countries have their own versions of the Ex-Im Bank. Congressman Cleaver, a member of the House Financial Services Committee, urged his colleagues to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank in a hearing last month and will continue to fight for this here at home -- and in Washington. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information: Michele Rooney – michele.rooney@mail.house.gov (816) 820-9755
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) spoke on the Floor of the House of Representatives Tuesday night on the critical importance of reauthorizing the nation’s transportation funding. He highlighted the decisive role that transportation and infrastructure play in Americans’ lives. Investments into transportation and infrastructure not only generate growth and jobs, but allow businesses to grow and communities to form around solid infrastructure. In just a few months, the highway and transit programs will expire, endangering our roads, bridges, transit systems, and everyone who uses them. Even sooner in late August, the Highway Trust Fund will become insolvent, dropping below the $4 billion funding level as soon as July. These are his remarks: “Thank you, Mr. Blumenauer. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to be here particularly with Mr. Blumenauer and Mr. Garamendi, who spoke earlier, because they have long histories, longer, in fact, than I've been in the House, of pushing for transportation issues, and I think that this is a rather sad and somewhat tragic moment in our history. “The Interstate Highway System was developed and put in place in 1956 and who would have thought that, when we entered into the 21st century, that the Congress of the United States would fail to keep that system in a top condition. The transportation bill affects Americans in every state of this country. A robust federal investment in transportation is an economic engine strengthening hundreds of communities and the thing that I have said often in my district, and frankly here in hearings, is that the best stimulus for the economy, the very best stimulus, is a transportation bill. And the weird thing is that the infrastructure is the backbone of our economy upon which businesses, families and communities thrive. So everyone is involved in this, red or blue, urban or rural, we all rely on transportation infrastructure. Ensuring economic prosperity is of paramount importance. It's not a Republican or a Democratic goal, but one that we all share. “One of the things that troubled me most since I was elected to Congress ten years ago is that we have somehow narrowed everything down to the point where it is either red or blue. It's either Republican or Democratic. And I'm not sure how we can look at highway systems in terms of political tribalism. “I served as mayor of Kansas City for eight years during the 1990's, and I can truthfully say that I had no idea on a day-to-day basis, based on what people said and did, who the Republicans were and who the Democrats were. We were all interested in trying to preserve Kansas City. And when there was a pothole in one of the streets in Kansas City, and Kansas City is a huge city, 322 square miles, to give you an idea, you can put San Francisco inside our city limits thirty times, or St. Louis three times. And so it's a huge city, but what we all were interested in is making sure, if there was a pothole, it was fixed. Because there was no Republican way of fixing it, there was no Democratic way of fixing it. We fixed the pothole. “And so one of my great disappointments when I arrived here is that is a Republican or a Democrat philosophy on everything, including transportation infrastructure. Every dollar invested in Missouri transportation generates $4 of economic activity. And the Federal Highway Administration actually estimates that for every $1 billion spent on transportation, 34,000 direct and indirect jobs are created. Just think about that: 34,000 indirect and direct jobs are generated. And that's why I take every opportunity I can to talk about infrastructure and improvements to our roads and bridges and waterways, in my district and around the country. Investment in transportation infrastructure generates growth and jobs during initial design, construction, and then post construction. I can tell you that at a time like this when we're still having some healing needed with our economy, this is the time to pump it up. We don't need QE-4, we don't need to do another Dodd-Frank. We need to pass a transportation and infrastructure bill. That begins to help heal this economy, because it is a job creator. “According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, 2013 report card, over 3,500 -- I hope people at home get this -- 3,500 bridges in Missouri alone are considered structurally deficient. 3,500 bridges in my state considered structurally deficient. And over 3,300 are considered functionally obsolete. That's 14% of the bridges in the state of Missouri are functionally obsolete. And every day, Kansas Citians and Missourians are driving over those bridges, and that's a tragedy. Because it's not only bad in Missouri, it's that way all over this country, all over the country. And this body is the only body that can address the problem. “While I agree that states should step up to raise the necessary revenues and make crucial investments themselves, it should be no surprise that interstate commerce is a duty in which this Congress is uniquely poised to fulfill. We are a nation of red states and blue states, urban communities and rural communities; I represent both. While each state must make investments within the communities, the responsibility to ensure our nation remains connected and globally competitive falls on this Congress. Bridge after bridge after bridge is in danger. Highways are crumbling, and we cannot sit by and play partisan politics and argue while our infrastructure continues to deteriorate. “And so, Mr. Speaker, I'm here tonight hoping that these words are not falling on the floor and will not be impactful. When we come in here like this, we're hoping that these words matter and that things can change and that they will change. It is my hope that this Congress will act and act quickly, because we cannot wait until the last minute going into August, when we will end up looking at a Highway Trust Fund becoming insolvent. And that means it will drop below the $4 billion funding level as soon as next month, July. We must do something, Mr. Speaker. “I would like to thank Mr. Blumenauer for all the work that he's done on this issue over the years, and I hope that the American people will just saturate us with letters telling us, ‘pass a highway and transportation infrastructure bill.’ Thank you, Mr. Blumenauer, I yield back.” A video of the Congressman’s speech may be viewed on this YouTube page here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information: Michele Rooney – michele.rooney@mail.house.gov (816) 820-9755
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded eleven municipalities and organizations within Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District with a combined total of nearly $1.9 million dollars as part of the Continuum of Care (CoC) Program to be utilized in the fight against homelessness. “As a member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, I wholeheartedly recognize the alarming attempts to cut the already scarce federal resources available to fight homelessness,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “It is of critical importance to impart more resources to local areas to ensure safe shelter for the homeless and to provide the services needed to provide stability and turn lives around. I am delighted that these critical dollars will be dedicated to helping our most venerable individuals and families.” The CoC Program originated with the intent to encourage communitywide commitments to the goal of ending homelessness. By bestowing funding to nonprofits and state and local governments who are already doing great work in their communities, the CoC Program aims to promptly rehouse homeless individuals and families with minimal trauma and disruption. The program also seeks to encourage access to and usage of conventional programs by homeless individuals and families, improving self-sufficiency among individuals and families experiencing homelessness. The 2013 Missouri Statewide Homelessness Study found over 10,000 homeless persons in Missouri and nearly 2,500 of those individuals are in Kansas City. Congressman Cleaver looks forward to continuing to work with these outstanding organizations in the fight against homelessness. Recipients include: Catholic Charities of Kansas City-St. Joseph, Inc. / St. Michael Housing (KC) City of Kansas City, Missouri / City of Kansas City - Newhouse Missouri Housing Development Commission / MO-606 Planning Application FY2013 reStart, Inc. / Family Rapid Rehousing 2013 Rose Brooks Center, Inc. / Rose Brooks Center Housing Program The Salvation Army / Harbor Light Village Chronic Permanent Supportive Housing Program The Salvation Army / Linwood Center Permanent Supportive Housing Program The Salvation Army / Project Able Chronic Permanent Supportive Housing Program The Salvation Army / The Salvation Army Transitional Housing Program Truman Medical Center, Inc. / Haven of Hope Truman Medical Center, Inc. / New Roots More information is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus. For more information: Michele Rooney – michele.rooney@mail.house.gov (816) 820-9755
06.05.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II announces that the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Secretary Tom Vilsack have provided the flexibility previously requested within the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP). In a letter sent last month, Congressman Cleaver asked the Secretary to provide support for those Missouri livestock producers applying for aid after the devastating losses suffered during the 2012 drought. Livestock producers were met with both historic drought and all-time high costs of feed and hay in 2012. This spring, as producers applied at their local Farm Service Agency (FSA) offices for the LFP, many found that an unintended error in their annual crop reports caused them to be deemed ineligible. Many producers have diversified production and were required to annually report their total acreage and intended use for the land to receive payments from other commodity programs. Now, USDA will allow state FSA offices and county committees to review applications on a case by case basis and submit additional documentation, giving producers the opportunity to recover some of their losses from the devastating 2012 drought. “I am delighted that the Secretary’s willingness to work with our Missouri farmers to secure disaster assistance after the paralyzing drought,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “This is a critical issue for the thousands of Missouri’s Fifth District livestock producers which has resulted in millions in economic losses for them and the local economy. This announcement from the USDA is an excellent first step, but make no mistake, we acknowledge that there is still more work to be done as farmers attempt to regain their livelihood. I look forward to continuing to work with the Secretary.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
06.03.2014	Critical Investment will Promote New Jobs and Economic Growth Congressman Cleaver meets with Jurox Head of Sales and Marketing John O’Brien in his Kansas City Congressional Office KANSAS CITY, MO – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce big economic news for Missouri’s Fifth District that will bring jobs and additional prestige to the area. Jurox, an international pharmaceutical company, is establishing its North American headquarters in Kansas City. The Congressman was honored to assist the company throughout recent months to ensure the business would successfully locate here, creating an economic boost and bringing new jobs, with the potential for many more. The company, based in Rutherford, Australia, has been providing Alfaxan, an induction anesthetic for use in both dogs and cats, in Australia for several years and is eager to market the drug here in the United States. “I am thrilled that all of the hard work to bring this company to Kansas City and to establish their North American Headquarters here paid off,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I had the great pleasure of meeting with Managing Director JJ O’Brien a few months ago. This is a win-win for our great city that will create new jobs and increase our city's footprint in the animal health corridor. This is a good day for Jurox, for Kansas City, and for the entire metropolitan area.” On September 6, 2012, the FDA granted approval to Jurox for Alfaxan, a drug that has been used safely in Australia for many years. Jurox has been working extensively with the Kansas City Animal Health Corridor, the City of Kansas City, the Kansas City Economic Development Corporation, the State of Missouri, and the Missouri Partnership to make this a successful transition. The establishment of a base of operations in Kansas City will lead to the creation of well-paying jobs, boosting economic activity in Kansas City in the immediate future, while also paving the way for greater expansion in the long-term. Within the animal health industry, the Greater Kansas City area is a national leader, comprising nearly one-third of total sales in the worldwide animal health market, and leading the country in animal health research. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement today on the passing of Maya Angelou, legendary poet, author, and activist: “Today we lost one of America’s most formidable authors, Dr. Maya Angelou,” stated Congressman Cleaver, “a witness to history and a celebrated champion for equality, peace, and justice. Dr. Angelou exemplified grace and poise. Her writing expressed her emotions, allowing those who experienced it to delve deeper into the meaning of her literature. She lived her life so others could easily follow her lead, facing the world and its problems head on.” “Maya Angelou was a beautiful and gifted woman for 86 years which means that in her death, those of us who loved and respected her need not erect gilding. A few years ago, I took Dr. Angelou to dinner on the Plaza in Kansas City. There were a number of friends who joined in for dinner and all of them, of course, wanted to sit next to her. Dr. Angelou, however, insisted that my youngest son, Evan, sit next to her. He will never forget that evening, nor will I forget the grace and benevolence Dr. Angelou extended to my son. My deepest sympathies are with her son, Guy, and his family during this difficult time.” Born in 1928 in St. Louis, Missouri, Dr. Angelou’s extensive works included seven autobiographies, three books of essays, and countless poems, as well as children’s books, plays, films, and television shows. Her first autobiography, I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, earned her international praise, chronicling her early years. Since 1982, Dr. Angelou had served as the lifetime Reynolds Professorship of American Studies at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. In 1993, she became the first poet to recite a poem at a presidential inauguration since Robert Frost did at President John F. Kennedy’s in 1961, reciting her poem “On the Pulse of Morning” at President Clinton’s inauguration. Her life, legacy, and words will continue to inspire us all. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - Moments ago, the House of Representatives passed unanimously by voice vote Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, designating the Liberty Memorial of Kansas City at America’s National World War I Museum in Kansas City, Missouri, as the “National World War I Museum and Memorial.” Additionally, this amendment redesignates Pershing Park, located along Pennsylvania Avenue in the District of Columbia, as the “National World War I Memorial.” “Nearly five million American soldiers served overseas during the war, yet no national memorial currently exists to honor the brave veterans of World War I,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “This amendment gives Kansas City the distinction of leading the nation in marking the centennial anniversary, honoring the great sacrifices made, and lessons learned, during World War I.” The 112th Congress, through Public Law 112-272, established the nonprofit World War I Centennial Commission to plan, develop, and execute programs, projects, and activities to commemorate the centennial of World War I. Today’s amendment authorizes the Commission to enhance Pershing Park through appropriate sculptural and other commemorative elements, including landscaping, with privately raised funds. In addition, ex-officio members from relevant government agencies will join the Commission to provide in kind support. July 28th of this year will mark the 100th anniversary of the beginning of World War I and the day Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia. On April 6th, 1917, the United States entered the war by declaring against Germany. Frank Buckles, the last American veteran from the war, died in February of 2011. He was the last direct American link to the "war to end all wars." This bi-partisan amendment was co-sponsored by area officials, including Congressman Sam Graves, Congressman Kevin Yoder, and Congresswoman Vicki Hartzler, among others. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
05.14.2014	KANSAS CITY - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, says parts of Jackson, Saline, and Ray Counties, should be declared federal disaster areas, in the wake of this weekend's devastating storms and tornados. He is officially requesting that Governor Jay Nixon request this designation from the President, as is the process, as well as for hazard mitigation statewide. One tornado went through the town of Sibley as an EF-1, and then ripped through Orrick as an EF-2. Another touched down in Saline County, near Marshall, producing winds in excess of 100 mph. "It is hard to imagine, even with pictures, the extent of what this tornado did to Orrick," said U.S. Congressman Cleaver. "It ripped through more than 70% of this town, devastating everything in its path. Families have lost virtually everything. Streets and roadways are destroyed or damaged. It could be six months of longer before children are even allowed inside the school building for classes." Local leaders, including the Mayor of Orrick and Ray County Commissioners are asking for federal government assistance. Members of the public are joining with local officials to clean up the destruction and debris, but say more assistance is crucial for the town to get back on its feet. An evaluation of the damage is still underway. The EF-2 tornado: *Was on the ground for more than 11 miles. *Damaged and/or destroyed between 200-300 homes and 3 churches. *Damaged the school so extensively parts of the roof are ripped off, wires are exposed and hanging from the ceiling, walls are missing, and windows are shattered. "Citizens of Orrick have lost their livelihoods as the summer growing season approaches, but remain forever thankful that no lives were lost," said Congressman Cleaver. "I am committed to fighting for them, so they get the immediate help they need, as we work together to rebuild and renew areas destroyed by this devastating storm." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
05.09.2014	Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II introduced legislation that will honor former President Harry S. Truman and bring national attention here at home. The legislation would rename Washington D.C.’s Union Station as the “Harry S. Truman Union Station.” In an extraordinary show of bipartisan cooperation, this legislation is cosponsored by the entire Missouri delegation in the House of Representatives, and is a companion to Senate legislation introduced by Missouri Senators Roy Blunt and Claire McCaskill. “President Truman stood for ideals we can all embrace, regardless of political party,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “He believed all people should be treated fairly, equally, and allowed the opportunity to pursue the best version of themselves through education, good health, and hard work. He made Missouri and our nation proud.” President Truman used Union Station extensively during his time in the White House, as it was home to the Presidential rail car. His famous “whistle-stop campaign” journey started and ended at Union Station. “I am very proud to work with my friends and neighbors from across the state and region, as well as Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, who has led the effort to revitalize Union Station, and of course my colleagues on the Senate side,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “Born in Lamar, Missouri, raised in Grandview and Independence, and making his living in Kansas City, Harry S. Truman was truly Missouri’s Favorite Son. This legislation will honor his memory and connection to the federal city.” Congressman Cleaver hopes to have this legislation voted on and passed by the House of Representatives in the next few weeks. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
05.07.2014	This week U.S. Rep. Emanuel Cleaver sent a letter to US Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack, requesting flexibility within the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP). He urged the Secretary to provide support for those livestock producers in Missouri applying for aid after the devastating losses suffered during the 2012 drought. “This is an issue affecting thousands of Missouri’s Fifth District livestock producers, resulting in millions in economic losses for them and the local economy,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “That’s why I’ve urged Secretary Vilsack to provide flexibility in the LFP such that producers will be allowed to demonstrate their acres were used for pastureland during the covered disaster period. I look forward to working with USDA to ensure a resolution to support those livestock producers who suffered through the worst drought in over half-a-century.” Those who raise, feed, and process cattle and other livestock in Missouri were devastated by the historic 2012 drought. Feed and hay costs rose to all-time highs that year and pressured many farmers to thin their herds, through no fault of their own, simply because they could not feed all of their animals. Due to USDA’s quick work, the livestock disaster assistance programs provided for in the 2014 Farm Bill recently became available for applications from producers, and are retroactively applied to 2012 and 2013. But, now that producers are applying for assistance at their local Farm Service Agency offices, many are finding that an unintended error in their annual crop reports is causing them to be deemed ineligible for the Livestock Forage Program. Many producers have diversified production and are required to annually report their total crop acreage and intended use for the land in order to receive payments from other commodity programs. Unfortunately, many producers recorded some acres as hay, even if they were used for pastureland during the grazing season, since there was no difference in eligibility for other commodity programs. Conversely, other producers that have pastureland only can now self-certify that their land was only used for grazing, creating an unfair advantage over diversified producers. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
04.28.2014	Washington DC -- Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Ted Poe along with Senators Claire McCaskill and Roy Blunt jointly introduced legislation today that will make Kansas City the only city in the nation with the distinction of having the National World War I Museum and Memorial. The bill will designate the Liberty Memorial at the National World War I Museum -- as the "National World War I Museum and Memorial." "This legislation is meant to ensure Kansas City is known as the one and only home in this great country to the National World War I Museum and Memorial,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. "And it gives us the opportunity to lead the nation in marking the centennial anniversary. I am hopeful this legislation will assist in honoring the great sacrifices made, and lessons learned, during World War I.” “This is great news for Kansas City and for the Liberty Memorial, where folks have worked tirelessly to commemorate the lives of our men and women who sacrificed so much during the ‘Great War,’” said McCaskill, the daughter of a World War II veteran and senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Dedicating this site is an important way to ensure that our kids and grandkids, and all future generations can appreciate the impact this war had on our nation and the freedoms we enjoy today.” “Missourians are deeply proud of our World War I heroes, and last year, I worked with my colleagues to help create an important Centennial Commission based at America’s National World War I Museum in Kansas City, Mo.,” said Blunt. “This bill will designate the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City as the ‘National World War I Museum and Memorial’ and allow the Commission to continue Kansas City’s tradition as a focal point in the study of World War I while also redesignating a national World War I Memorial in Washington, D.C.” Congressman Cleaver and Congressman Poe, along with Senators McCaskill and Blunt also successfully passed legislation last year that established Liberty Memorial as the host of a new World War I Centennial Commission. That Commission is in the process of planning, developing, and executing programs, projects, and activities to commemorate the centennial of World War I. Kansas City will have the honor of hosting the inaugural event in the nation, to mark this solemn day. Pershing Park, located along Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington DC, would be redesignated as the National World War I Memorial. On July 28th of this year, our country will mark the 100th anniversary of the beginning of World War I. This is the day Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia. On April 6th, 1917, the United States entered the war by declaring against Germany. Almost five million U.S. service members served during the war. Frank Buckles was the last American veteran from the war, but died in February of 2011. He was the last direct American link to the "war to end all wars." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
04.15.2014	Kansas City – It is Tax Day, and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, is reiterating his fight for a tax code that is doesn’t favor the wealthy, but is fair for the middle class. “The partisan politics and back biting in Washington needs to end,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver, “We must work together to reform our tax code for the middle class. It is past time to close the loop holes, stop the tax breaks for special interests, and start supporting hard-working Americans who are struggling under an unfair system.” The Congressman has expressed grave concerns about the proposed Republican budget and the potential it presents for another recession. It would: provide a $200,000-plus tax break for millionaires increase taxes on middle class families with children by $2,000 end the Medicare guarantee for seniors – forcing them to pay more for services and prescriptions cost the country 3 million jobs push up to 170,000 children out of the Head Start program cut academic support for as many as 3.4 million disadvantaged students cost up to 29,000 jobs for teachers and aides “Instead of betraying our seniors, slashing education, and destroying jobs, we should be cutting taxes for the middle class, supporting small businesses to revitalize economic growth, and building an economy that works for everyone,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Tax Day, like every other day, is a good day to remember that.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
04.14.2014	Kansas City – “My heartfelt thoughts and prayers go out to all of the families and friends of those shot and killed yesterday in the senseless, horrendous, and hate-filled targeting of children and seniors, simply because of their faith. The Kansas City Metropolitan area will stand united, and grow deeper in our strength and respect for one another, in the face of this apparent anti-Semitic attack. My hope is that all of those touched by this unspeakable tragedy, will feel the arms of our entire community -- reaching out and pulling them close. That they will feel the love of our embrace, and be comforted by the knowledge that together, we renew our rejection of bigotry and rededicate ourselves to the fight for freedom -- and for faith.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
04.11.2014	Kansas City -- Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II today announced a series of extraordinary awards to help individuals and families experiencing homelessness in the entire metropolitan area. The U.S. Housing and Urban Development has made available $26,026,991 in grants to renew support for 113 local homeless housing and service programs in Missouri. Provided through HUD’s Continuum of Care Program, the funding will ensure these local projects continue to serve communities most in need, and continue to provide support to the most vulnerable. “At a time like this, we need more affordable housing and a stronger safety net to end homelessness,” stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II “When nearly sixty thousand of our veterans are now homeless, it’s clear we are not doing enough. These funds will make a huge difference in our community. Housing assistance and outreach saves lives, keeps families together, and keeps people safe.” The awards to Missouri’s Fifth District total $5,260,984 and are directed to thirty-one different projects, under the leadership of thirteen different lead agencies. The awardees include, but are not limited to: City of Kansas City, Catholic Charities of Kansas City-St. Joseph, reStart Inc., Community Services League, Sheffield Place, Synergy Services, and the Salvation Army. Continuum of Care grants are awarded competitively to local projects to meet the needs of individuals and families experiencing homelessness in their community. The grants fund a wide variety of programs from street outreach and assessment to transitional and permanent housing for homeless persons and families. This life-saving funding will allow local providers in Missouri’s Fifth District to continue offering permanent and transitional housing to homeless persons. as well as services including job training, health care, mental health counseling, substance abuse treatment and child care. There are 610,042 people experiencing homelessness on any given night in the United States. Kansas City has the seventh largest homeless population per capita. 56 percent are mothers and children. Of those experiencing homelessness nationally, 222,197 are people in families, and 387,845 are individuals. About 18 percent of the homeless population - 109,132 - are considered chronically homeless. About 9 percent of homeless adults- 57,849 - are veterans. Missouri has the fourth highest percent of homeless veterans. View a complete list of local homeless projects awarded funding here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
03.18.2014	Kansas City – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, is pleased to announce efforts to secure and restore federal funding for Kansas City have been successful. The grants are to fight terrorism and assist in emergency preparedness, and Kansas City won big in both areas. Today, the United States Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency announced its list of cities receiving grants. The awards are for the State Homeland Security Program, and the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI). After getting ZERO dollars last year under UASI, Kansas City will receive $1,000,000 this fiscal year. And Missouri has been awarded almost $4 million dollars ($3,978,000) for fiscal year 2014 for our State Homeland Security Program. That’s an increase of almost a half of a million dollars over last year’s allocation of $3,459,364. “This is an astounding victory for Kansas City and the entire metropolitan region,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “The threats we face, from tornadoes to terrorists, continue to increase and become more complex. Our local law enforcement officers and first responders are working day and night to be prepared, and we must do everything we can to support them - plain and simple. And these grants make a dramatic difference.” Congressman Cleaver has argued vociferously in Washington that Kansas City should be returned to the list of cities getting funds. After years of receiving UASI funds, in 2011 and again in 2013, Kansas City got nothing. In August of last year, he reached out to then Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, to again plead Kansas City’s case. “I am thrilled our area will get the richly deserved funding we need to help in making our community a safer place,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Make no mistake, I will continue to work to make sure we get what we need to help, not hamstring, our police officers, firefighters, first responders, and all others dedicating themselves to these unbelievably challenging jobs. They must be armed with the best talent, the best tools, and the best techniques, in order to be prepared to fight through the worst. “ Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
03.18.2014	Kansas City – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, is announcing a major win for UMKC , the life and health sciences industry in Kansas City, and the entire metropolitan area. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has awarded a $7 million grant to the University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Nursing and Health Studies. This grant is the largest the school has ever received, and positions UMKC as a national resource center for the prevention of HIV. “This is beyond exciting news, and yet another feather in the cap of UMKC and all that is happening throughout the entire life and health sciences corridor,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver. “I believe UMKC is uniquely qualified to administer this very complex, nationally focused initiative. I worked to make sure that the decision makers in Washington really understood the talent, resources, and drive we have here to make this a success.” Congressman Cleaver reached out to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, among others, urging the selection of UMKC for this funding opportunity. He stressed the unique benefit of the school’s technological and administrative infrastructure already in place, the national visibility for the state, and the opportunity for multiple national collaborations connected with this initiative and the fight against HIV. The program will work with many other organizations to research best practices in planning, implementing and evaluating high-impact HIV prevention programs. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
03.18.2014	Kansas City - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II received a standing ovation from a crowd of more than 100 area residents, following his passionate speech pushing Missourians to support the expansion of Medicaid. "This is not just a medical issue," said U.S. Representative Cleaver, "this is a moral issue. Fact-free debate and political partisanship have no place being injected into this issue, the hardworking people of Missouri's Fifth District deserve better. Much better." Dozens of elected officials joined Congressman Cleaver and Governor Jay Nixon at St. James United Methodist Church in Kansas City to show their support, and to give information and answer questions to those in attendance. Expanding Medicaid in Missouri would close the coverage gap, and would result in almost 300,000 low-income adults throughout the state getting access to health care. Most people who fall into the Coverage Gap are working families who make too much to qualify for Medicaid under current law, but not enough to get subsidies for other health care coverage. Consequently, they are employed, yet still unable to get basic health care. Speakers told the crowd Medicaid expansion would not cost Missouri taxpayers additional money. It would be paid for through federal funds until the end of 2016 at 100%, and then at 90% in the years following. In fact, they said, hard-earned, taxpayer dollars from Missourians are going now to the 26 states and District of Columbia, which have already opted to expand their Medicaid programs. "This is a good thing for Missouri, not a controversial one," said Congressman Cleaver. "Even a dumb Methodist minister like me can figure that out." As the crowd laughed, the Congressman reminded them that time is short and cooperative efforts are imperative. "These people are our neighbors, our friends, and hardworking Missourians," said Congressman Cleaver. "They are working, playing by the rules, and desperately in need of knowing that if a catastrophic event strikes, they will not face financial ruin. Let's do the right thing and let's do it now." Governor Nixon explained to the audience that Missouri will save money through the expansion of Medicaid, through increased economic activity, improved patient outcomes, and a higher federal match rate of Medicaid coverage. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
02.27.2014	Kansas City – In the wake of the announcement that eighty-three jobs will stay in Kansas City, instead of transferring elsewhere, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, (D-MO) is being recognized for his hard work on this issue. The U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) is working to relocate all agencies currently located at the Bannister Federal Complex. Yesterday, the GSA announced that, after a nationwide search of possible relocation sites, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) will stay in Kansas City. The city was found to offer the best value, the best workforce, and the best fit. "I'm grateful for Congressman Cleaver's efforts in helping keep federal jobs in Kansas City throughout the process of vacating the Bannister Federal Complex, which has spanned several years,” said GSA Regional Administrator Jason Klumb, “I also appreciate his active interest in the redevelopment of the Bannister Federal Complex. It's important to the Congressman, and me, that Bannister is in the best position possible for responsible redevelopment." GSA employees are set to begin their relocation to the downtown Kansas City area by the end of this year. “I am so pleased our hard work to keep jobs right here has paid off,” said Congressman Cleaver. “This is a win-win! It is not only good for those employees, but good for our entire area, as we continue to focus on growing and retaining jobs, and revitalizing our economy.” The Bannister Complex should be ready for transfer or sale in 2015. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
02.14.2014	Comments come in the wake of one of the largest cases of its kind in U.S. history Kansas City –– Authorities say the cockfighting bust recently in Upstate New York is one of the largest such cases in the country, involving more than 3,000 fighting roosters and spanning three counties in that state. “Here at home, those who devote themselves to protecting God’s creatures, are rushing to the rescue,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Wayside Waifs in Kansas City is preparing to send a team to New York to care for these abused, injured, and mistreated animals that have been living in unbelievably deplorable conditions.” Wayside Waifs is sending at least four members of its FEMA certified animal rescue team to help with the medical care, feeding, and overall treatment of the birds. They will also assist in cleaning and preparing larges areas so the animals can be safely housed. The organization is the largest no kill pet adoption campus in Kansas City. There were at least six arrests in this New York case, and the investigation continues. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is also involved and thanking Wayside Waifs for their help and assistance. The issue of animal cruelty is one Congressman Cleaver has been involved in for quite some time. Last year he cosponsored H.R. 366, the Animal Fighting Spectator Prohibition Act of 2013. “That legislation addresses this horrendous activity some call sport,” said Congressman Cleaver. “It makes it a federal offense to attend organized animal fights, with additional penalties for taking children to these types of events.” The bill was added to the 2014 Farm Bill, which was recently signed into law by the President. In cockfighting cases, authorities say knives and other dagger-like devices are typically attached to the birds, to increase the amount of injury during fights. A spokesperson says the Wayside Waifs animal rescue team is scheduled to leave in the next couple of days. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
02.13.2014	Kansas City – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, extends his congratulations to Dr. Jane Chu, of Kansas City, for her forthcoming nomination, by President Barak Obama, to become chairwoman of the National Endowment for the Arts. “This is an extraordinary honor for a woman who is so well-deserving,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver. “Dr. Chu has served our community with distinction and devotion for many years, and her hard work, talent, and passion for culture, education, and the arts make her uniquely qualified for this position.” Dr. Chu is the President and CEO of the Kauffman Center for the Performing Arts in Kansas City. She has also served in various capacities at the Kauffman Fund for Kansas City, Union Station, the Greater Kansas City Community Foundation and the Greater Kansas City Chamber of Commerce. She was bestowed the honor of Kansas City’s Nonprofit Professional of the Year for 2014. Chu is also a pianist. Dr. Jane Chu’s nomination will eventually go before the Senate for confirmation. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
02.12.2014	Congressman Cleaver comments as the President signs an Executive Order raising the minimum wage for federal contract workers to $10.10 an hour: “I applaud the President for assisting hundreds of thousands of Americans, including many thousands in Missouri’s Fifth District, get a fair wage for their hard work,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “It has been far too long since Congress took action to increase the minimum wage. Full-time workers should not be falling below the poverty line in this country, and struggling just to put food on the table for their family. This is an important step forward.” The Executive Order takes effect for new contracts starting January 1, 2015. It includes an increase in the tipped minimum wage, as well as a wage increase for federal contract workers. It also covers people with disabilities, and will improve value for both the federal government and for taxpayers by ensuring better quality, improving productivity, and lowering turnover and absenteeism. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
02.11.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, questioned the new Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today, as she made her first appearance before Congress. Chair Janet Yellen’s testimony covered a range of topics, including the conduct of monetary policy, economic developments and prospects for the future, employment, production, investment, international trade, and prices. “I would be remiss if I did not mention the historic moment before us today,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “The first female Chair of the Federal Reserve joined the House Financial Services committee to discuss the state of our economy.” Congressman Cleaver says Chair Yellen also discussed the conduct of the Federal Reserve. He notes that the economy continues to grow, slowly but surely. “We are increasing our GDP, lowering the rate of unemployment, and improving the state of the hard hit housing market,” said Congressman Cleaver. “In fact, housing sales are performing at their strongest since 2006. I want to see Congress and the Federal Reserve doing more to ensure we reach full employment in this country.” In his questioning of Chair Yellen, Congressman Cleaver focused on unemployment as represented by the U6 figure , which is an alternative measure of labor underutilization. Congressman Cleaver also discussed the impact of consumer spending as well as unemployment insurance and its untimely expiration. The Congressman believes our nation’s economic success depends on a comprehensive and very conscientious fiscal and monetary policy. A full copy of Chair Yellen’s testimony is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.29.2014	Missouri’s Fifth District - It has been a long time coming, but today Congress passed a comprehensive five-year Farm Bill. The 2014 Farm Bill (H.R. 2642) passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 251 to 166. “This is a critically important moment,” said U.S. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “After almost two years of fighting for this, we finally have a Farm Bill that will provide security for farmers and ranchers in Missouri’s Fifth District, a framework for future investment, and a continued focus on food.” The Congressman says this is not a perfect bill, but one he felt was important to make compromises on and support in a bipartisan fashion. Congressman Cleaver has spoken out against the more than $8 billion in cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. But after talking with constituents in Missouri’s Fifth District, including his Agricultural Advisory Committee, area farmers, ranchers, representatives from food banks in urban, rural, and suburban areas, as well as many others, he agreed a vote in favor of the bill was necessary in order to move the district, and the country, forward. “We hear the most about the nutrition and farm programs,” said Congressman Cleaver, “but there are also programs in this bill to protect our soil and water, feed our seniors and our students, increase access to fresh fruits and vegetables so all Americans can eat green, promote our American products overseas, better our research programs at our universities, and more.” H.R. 2642 garnered support from numerous local, state, and national groups. Some of those included the American Farm Bureau Federation, the Missouri Farm Bureau, American Soybean Association, Dairy Farmers of America, National Corn Growers Association, United States Cattlemen’s Association, Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, National Association of Conservation Districts, National Wildlife Federation and the Missouri Wine & Grape Board. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.29.2014	Missouri’s Fifth District - This is an important day, not just for women throughout Missouri’s Fifth District, but for all Americans. Today marks the Fifth Anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. This law, at its core, is built on the notion of equal pay for women, providing basic protection against pay discrimination, and making sure women get their day in court if treated unfairly. “It is about what is right, what is fair, and quite frankly, what is basic common sense,” said U.S. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “It doesn’t matter what a person’s gender, race, or background is, they should earn equal pay for equal work. Period.” The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act was the first piece of legislation signed into law by President Obama on January 29th, 2009. And while Congressman Cleaver vigorously supported that legislation, he says it doesn’t mark an end, but a beginning. “We have made progress to be sure,” said Congressman Cleaver, “but there is still much work to be done. Women still earn less, on average, than their male counterparts. I am working for the passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would continue to lift women to their rightful place on the pay scale.” Statistics show: Women in the United States still earn an average of just 77 cents for every dollar a man earns. Women make up almost half of the labor force. For nearly two-thirds of American families, mothers serve as the sole breadwinner or co-breadwinner. The Paycheck Fairness Act is designed to close loopholes in the 50-year-old Equal Pay Act and give women opportunities to remedy employment situations where they are not being paid equal wages for equal work. “Doing right by women in the workforce is not only the just thing to do,” said Congressman Cleaver, “it’s the smart thing to do. Allowing women to succeed helps them better their families, the economy, and the country as a whole.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.10.2014	Kansas City – Congressman Cleaver is urging the Speaker of the House to let Members vote immediately on extending emergency unemployment insurance. Twice now Republicans have voted against House Democrats’ efforts to be allowed to vote on the extension. “Hardworking men and women in Missouri’s Fifth District are struggling,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “They have played by the rules and have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. To cut off their lifeline right now, while they continue to look for work and still must feed their families, is mean-spirited and just plain wrong.” At the end of December, 1.3 million Americans lost unemployment insurance, including 20,000 Missourians. Failure to act will cost an estimated 1,362 Missourians their benefits every week for the first six months of this year. Right now, almost 3,500 residents of Missouri’s Fifth District have been cut-off from this critical lifeline. And the number continues to grow. Earlier this week, the Senate voted 60-37 to begin consideration of a bipartisan three-month extension of UI (unemployment insurance). This is the first step toward reinstating the vital economic assist for the 1.3 million Americans who were cut-off during the holidays. “It is now time for the House Republican leaders to let us vote,” said Congressman Cleaver. “This extension is necessary not only for Missouri families, and those around the nation, but also for local economies and businesses. To say it is a disincentive to looking for work is, quite frankly, disingenuous.” Since the expiration of the Emergency Federal Unemployment Compensation program 22,619 Missourians have lost their benefits, and that number grows every day. This averages $235.04 a week in income. These are dollars desperately needed to feed their families, pay the heating bill, and keep a roof over their heads. “We, in Congress, need to work together and focus on expanding economic opportunities for the middle class and creating jobs for all hardworking Americans,” said Congressman Cleaver. “This extension needs to happen – and it needs to happen now.” FACTS ABOUT FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE PROGRAM: * Was signed by President George W. Bush and took effect in 2008. *Has been reauthorized several times as the economy continues to recover. *1.3 million job seekers were cut off on December 28th as the program expired. *Without an extension another 72,000 people nationwide are estimated to lose unemployment insurance every week during the first half of the year. *Is one of the most effective job creation strategies when joblessness rate is high. *Every dollar of unemployment compensation spent creates $1.52 in additional economic activity. *Last week alone the lapse in unemployment insurance cost state economies more than $400 million. *According to the Congressional Budget Office extending unemployment benefits for another year would save 200,000 jobs. *Expiration of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation will shrink GDP by .04% points in the first quarter. *Letting benefits expire won't put people back to work. *Unemployment rate is 25% higher than when the Emergency Unemployment Compensation passed in June 2008. *Millions of Americans will exhaust benefits before finding work. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.08.2014	Kansas City - Comments from Congressman Cleaver, U.S. Representative from Missouri's Fifth District, regarding the 50th Anniversary of the War on Poverty, declared by President Lyndon Johnson during the State of the Union address in 1964: "It was 50 years ago today that President Lyndon Johnson declared war on poverty in this country," said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. "President Johnson told Congress the richest nation on earth could not afford to leave millions of its citizens trapped in squalor, misery, and unemployment. Those words are still just as true today." "We have come so very far, to be sure, but this battle is no where close to being over. We have seen great progress in the last five decades with Medicare, Medicaid, Head Start, and a food stamp program. Those programs have already, and will continue to, assist millions of Americans each day. But there are thousands of hardworking people in Missouri's Fifth District, and throughout the country, who are working longer hours for less pay, watching the number of opportunities to better themselves shrink." "We have within our power the ability to stamp out poverty in this country - in this generation. It is a matter of priorities. It is ironic that the 50th Anniversary of the War on Poverty comes as we fight to restore emergency unemployment insurance for the more than 1.3 million Americans still searching for work. This is a lifeline so critical that allows people to look for work while still being able to feed their families. We must pledge anew our commitment to create jobs, raise the minimum wage, and end poverty in this great nation." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
10.28.2013	"I have performed weddings and funerals for Ike and his family, and loved him dearly," said U.S. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. "There is nothing as strong as gentleness, and nothing as gentle as pure strength. Ike was all of that and more. Public service was a part of his very soul and the world is a colder place tonight." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
10.25.2013	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. testdoc1.docQuisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra.testdoc2.docAenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Video of Stars &amp;amp; Stripes Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Video of ◄ Lincoln Memorial, Washington [HD] ► Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis.
10.01.2013	Kansas City --- The government of the United States of America is closed. Today, Tuesday, October 1, 2013, Congress has failed to adequately fund the federal government and forced the shutdown of federal agencies. With that comes needless confusion, uncertainty, and harm to all Americans, including public servants and their families, and increasing costs for the taxpayer. “Today, our public servants and the people who depend on them for many kinds of services are being punished because Washington has wasted time yet again,” stated Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “In Missouri’s Fifth District, the federal government employs nearly 45,000 people —many of whom have already been injuriously impacted by sequestration-- who will now be furloughed. They are not the only ones who will be affected, but their sacrifices will be the most severe.” “A government shutdown impacts all of us. It will mean that many of our agencies will shut their doors, hurting seniors, families, businesses, and children. It means public servants will suffer and Americans who depend on their services will suffer too. I have spoken with constituents throughout Missouri’s Fifth District, Republicans and Democrats, and virtually everyone agrees. This is no way to run a government.” “In order to return our government to functionality, I am staying in Washington. I am certainly open to debating our federal budget, our policy priorities, and how we should best serve our constituents. And while I am a strong supporter of the Affordable Care Act, I am even open to discussing how we can amend and improve it. I am not, however, a believer in shutting down the entire government simply because one ‘side’ cannot get everything it wants. That is not how government should work, and not what we were sent here to do.” Agency Contingency Plans across the federal government are available here. A shutdown will actually cost the government and the taxpayer money, hinder the economy, waste billions of dollars in federal funds and scare the markets. Even now, there are reports of a slowdown in normal operations for agencies and businesses. The Office of Management and Budget estimated in 1996 that the two closures in that fiscal year, which lasted 26 days total, cost the government $1.4 billion, or approximately $2.08 billion in today’s dollars. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
09.19.2013	Kansas City – September 19th – Missouri’s Fifth District Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II, will be flying on Air Force One with the President tomorrow morning from Washington DC to Kansas City. The President and Congressman Cleaver will travel to the Ford Kansas City Stamping Plant in Liberty, where the President will continue to highlight economic progress throughout the country. “Creating and keeping jobs in my district and throughout the state continues to be priority number one,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “I am pleased to have some time with the President to talk directly with him about the achievements we are making in Missouri in the automotive industry, the need for continued investment, and the importance of recognizing hard work on the part of so many in our area.” The President will tour the plant and deliver remarks to Ford employees. The event is open to pre-credentialed media and closed to the public. Remarks are scheduled to begin around 12:45 PM. Congressman Cleaver will return to Washington on Air Force One with the President following those remarks. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
09.13.2013	Kansas City – September 13th – Missouri’s Fifth District took center stage today as the Commissioners of the newly-formed World War I Centennial Commission took the oath of office. Former Congressman Ike Skelton (appointed to the Commission by President Obama) was elected Chair of the Centennial Commission. “I cannot think of a more appropriate person to head this group,” said U.S. Representative Congressman Cleaver. “Congressman Skelton understands the importance of ensuring that the nation properly observe the anniversary of WWI, and will exhibit to the country the respect and honor so richly deserved by those who have made the ultimate sacrifice.” Congressman Cleaver began working on the establishment of the WWI Centennial Commission in 2005 when he entered Congress. The bi-partisan legislation was passed and signed into law by the President earlier this year. Following the swearing in ceremony, the Commissioners officially began the first meeting. “I look forward to many accomplishments from this group,” said Congressman Cleaver. “And with Ike Skelton leading the way, I know this is a great beginning.” Retired Colonel Robert Dalessandro, Executive Director and Chief of Military History at the U.S. Army Center of Military History, was elected Vice Chair. The full list of Members of the WWI Centennial Commission also includes: Edwin L. Fountain, a partner in the Washington, D.C. office of the international law firm Jones Day; James S. Whitfield of Independence, a U.S. Navy veteran of World War II and formerly of the American Legion; Dr. Mary Cohen, Chair of the Museum Board of the National World War I Museum; Retired U.S. Army Major General Alfred A. Valenzuela of Texas; Jerry L. Hester of North Carolina, formerly Chairman of the 70th Anniversary WWI National Committee; Colonel Thomas Moe, USAF (Ret.), former Director of the Ohio Department of Veterans Services; James B. Nutter of Kansas City, MO, a pioneer in mortgage lending and founder of James B. Nutter & Company, Inc.; Stephen L. "Steve" Van Buskirk of Shawnee, Kansas, former Director of Programs of the Veterans of Foreign Wars National Headquarters ; Dr. Libby O'Connell, PhD., Chief Historian and Senior Vice President for Corporate Outreach at A&E Television Network. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.17.2013	Kansas City – Today, for the 38th time, the House of Representatives will vote to repeal all or part of the Affordable Care Act. “Again and again we are focusing on something that has no hope of going anywhere,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Instead of creating jobs, growing the economy, and strengthening the middle class, we are wasting time on a misguided effort to dismantle a program that is helping millions of people across the country.” New numbers just released outline specifics on the hundreds of thousands in Missouri’s Fifth District already benefiting from the Affordable Care Act. “ACA is about lower costs and better coverage,” said Congressman Cleaver. “It’s that simple. From young adults to seniors to children with pre-existing conditions, people in my district are saving money, receiving critical protection, and finally getting some peace of mind when it comes to health care.” The new analysis was prepared by the Minority staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and shows the following for Missouri’s Fifth District: *6,900 Young adults now have health insurance through their parents’ plan. *More than 7,500 seniors in the district have received prescription drug discounts worth $9.7 million, an average discount of $580 per person in 2011, $640 in 2012, and $900 so far in 2013. *112,000 seniors are now eligible for Medicare preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. *195,000 individuals, including 42,000 children and 81,000 women, now have health insurance that covers preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. *143,000 individuals are saving money due to ACA provisions that prevent insurance companies from spending more than 20% of their premiums on profits and administrative overhead. *Up to 43,000 children in Missouri’s Fifth District with preexisting health conditions can no longer be denied coverage by health insurers. *233,000 individuals now have insurance that can’t place lifetime limits on their coverage and will not face annual limits on coverage starting in 2014. *Up to 125,000 individuals who do not have health insurance will have access to quality, affordable coverage without fear of discrimination or higher rates because of a preexisting health condition. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.02.2013	Kansas City – Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, and Kansas City Police Chief Darryl Forte announced the first statistics on the new ShotSpotter crime-fighting system. “My intention in securing funding for this program has always been to give law enforcement another tool in their arsenal against crime,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver. “I am pleased to know ShotSpotter is having such a profound impact on fighting crime, prosecuting cases, and building bridges of trust between officers and the community.” The Kansas City Police Department has recovered more than a dozen weapons, drugs, hundreds of shell casings and more than a hundred live rounds as a direct result of ShotSpotter. In addition to those numbers, a victim in need of immediate medical care was quickly located, a suspect was apprehended, and numerous ancillary cases have been built on information from citizens, who are developing new relationships with officers now because of quick awareness and response to incidents of gunfire. ShotSpotter is the world leader in wide-area acoustic surveillance and gunfire detection technology. The program was announced in Kansas City about a year ago. Among the key benefits delivered by ShotSpotter: Instant, Accurate Situational Awareness – Precise gunfire incident information enables informed decisions for faster emergency response while also improving situational intelligence and increasing first responder safety. Enhanced Forensics Analysis & Crime Analysis– Detailed forensic data and intelligence improves the investigative process leading to more thorough investigations and enhanced prosecutions for gun-related crime. Incident Expert Qualification – A highly trained team of gunfire acoustic experts at the SST Operations Center review and qualify all incidents immediately and pass valuable, actionable gunfire incident data to 9-1-1 dispatch centers and mobile police units enabling accurate and reliable data. Long-Term Crime Deterrence – Awareness of all gunfire incidents and cumulative data enables proactive crime analysis and strategic deterrence. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
07.01.2013	Kansas City – Today is the day millions of students and families across the country have dreaded -- and pleaded with Congress not to let come. But it has. Today is the day, student loan rates double, leaving students paying 6.8% on their loans instead of 3.4%. “Congress can act overnight to bail out the nation’s big banks,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “But when it comes to making sure young people and students across America are able to stay in the classroom – we can’t work together? This is obscene.” Congress is in recess this week, meaning no action will be taken to stop the rate increase, set to go into effect today. It is estimated that every student taking out a federal loan will pay an average of $1,000 more each year in loan repayment. Already, Americans now owe more than $1 TRILLION in student loans. “Hardworking families throughout Missouri’s Fifth District deserve better than this,” said Congressman Cleaver. “The lack of action from Congress is putting a college education out of reach for millions of students, undermining our economy, and weakening our middle class.” The cost of college has jumped almost 30% in the last decade. And now the loan increase is expected to double for 7.4 million students. For the first time in our country’s history, student loan debt has now surpassed credit card debt. Congressman Cleaver is a cosponsor of HR 1595, the Student Loan Relief Act of 2013, which would free the interest rate on these loans at 3.4% for the next two years. It is unclear whether this legislation will be voted on by the House of Representatives when they return from recess next week.
06.26.2013	Congressman Cleaver’s statement following the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) as unconstitutional, and the Court’s ruling that will allow same-sex marriages to resume in the state of California: “Today is a victorious day in the fight for equal rights for all. Only a handful of the Bible’s one million verses relate to same-sex behavior. Neither the Jewish prophets nor Jesus Christ ever spoke of it. What Jesus did talk about was love. He was all about teaching and preaching love. It was the main thing and the plain thing. It still is.” “I, like millions of Americans, yearn for the day when all people are treated as equals under the law. We have taken a step toward that today. A very, big step. We can no longer treat committed gay and lesbian couples as less important than everyone else. We can no longer treat children of gay and lesbian couples as if their parents, their families, and they, themselves, are somehow not as good as everyone else.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
06.25.2013	Kansas City - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, is pleased to announce his participation in the NOH8 event. The NOH8 (NO HATE) On The Hill event is an effort to show solidarity and support for marriage equality. “I think this campaign goes far beyond the issue of marriage,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “It’s about equality for all Americans. It’s about fighting discrimination and injustice, in all of its hateful and ugly forms.” Nearly 70 Members of Congress are a part of this year’s event, one that began three years ago. Since that time, 100 Members of Congress have joined with millions of Americans to fight inequality. The NOH8 photo campaign launched this week – in anticipation of Supreme Court rulings on the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) and on California’s Proposition 8. It is a campaign focusing on creating an awareness concerning freedom and equality for all Americans. “It is a foundation on which this country was formed,” said Congressman Cleaver. “It is basic and simple, yet so critically fundamental. It is about freedom and justice for all.” For more information on the NOH8 On The Hill Campaign please visit: https://www.noh8campaign.com/article/noh8onthehill3 For more information please contact: Michele Rooney michele.rooney@mail.house.gov Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
06.21.2013	"I wanted to pass a Farm Bill. I worked to pass a Farm Bill. And I was willing to compromise to pass a Farm Bill," stated Congressman Cleaver. "Greatly compromise. Having said that, I voted no this week on H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act – the Farm Bill. The bill would have extended most major federal farm, nutrition assistance, rural development and agricultural trade programs for five years. "There were many things about this Farm Bill that I liked, worked to get included in the bill, and wanted to see pass. I was very pleased that the issue I fought for these last few months, retroactive livestock disaster assistance for farmers who were hit by the drought in 2012 was included. The expansion of the Farmers Market Promotion Program to fund regional food distribution centers to help farmers get their products to various local markets was included. These, and other parts, were very good and necessary. There were also many things in the bill that I did not like. I have made no secret of the fact that I think the proposed $20.5 billion in cuts in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) was too much. Choosing to increase hunger in our country, our state, and literally in our own backyards, I felt, was unconscionable. Truly cruel. "Still, I was willing to move forward on a Yes vote until the very end. My hope was to keep the process moving forward. That would allow us to work with the Senate to reduce some of those cuts and reach and end point we could all live with. But as the vote neared, there were additional ‘poison pills’ put into the bill that made a Yes vote one I could not cast. The bad simply outweighed the good. "I believe we need a truly bipartisan compromise to reform farm programs, provide certainty for America’s farmers who are critical to our economy, expand access to healthy food with more organic options, fruits and vegetables, more local farmers markets, and ensuring that our most vulnerable, especially our children, do not go hungry. If we are ever to move forward, and I will work endlessly to do so, we must work together. We cannot let last minute politics poison the future for our agriculture community, our children, and the economy of our country. This type of game-playing, partisan-bickering, last-minute maneuvering must end." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
06.20.2013	Missouri’s Fifth District – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce the opportunity for rural areas to get financial assistance for broadband deployment. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is now accepting applications in this effort to continue strengthening rural economies. “A dependable and quality infrastructure is crucial for rural areas to grow their economies, create and support jobs, and expand access to and knowledge about numerous issues, including health services,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “We are seeing historic investment in rural America right now, and I want to make sure anyone in Missouri’s Fifth District who is interested, knows about this.” Up to $21 million in grants is available through the Community Connect Grant program. It is a program targeting rural areas where service is not available. To date the program has funded 229 projects with USDA investments of $122 million. According to the USDA, in 2012, the department helped improve broadband service for close to 65,000 rural households, businesses and community organizations across the country. For more information: https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2013-05-03/pdf/2013-10502.pdf Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
06.12.2013	Kansas City – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce a $200,000 grant to Children’s Mercy Hospital in Kansas City. The grant comes from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and will be used to instruct students in the field of health care about creating healthy homes for kids. “Keeping our children healthy and safe is a priority for all of us,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “These dollars will help Children’s Mercy teach, and in return share that knowledge with families in Missouri’s Fifth District, about how to create an environment in our homes that maximizes conditions for safe surroundings.” The collaborative project will emphasis indoor air quality, and controlling the use of pesticides inside the home. The program is called the Environmental Education for Health Care Initiative. Instruction for students will include improving asthma health outcomes, prevention of lead poisoning, and knowledge about skin reactions that can result from exposure to pesticides, among other areas. Populations of focus will include rural, urban, low income and minority communities. Health care students will learn how to ask questions and use an environmental history, to produce a comprehensive plan to assess and improve home environments. “Decreasing health hazards inside of the home is an important step forward,” said Congressman Cleaver. “In doing so, our children can hopefully focus more fully on growing up happy and healthy.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
06.06.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Cleaver welcomed Minddrive, an after-school program that works with at-risk teenagers, to Washington this week. Minddrive focuses on engaging students, mentoring them, teaching them, and giving them skills that will help lead to sustainable lives. "I have been inspired by these young people for quite some time now," said Congressman Cleaver. "From their trip to Washington last year for Earth Day, to bringing the White House Council on Environmental Quality Chairwoman Nancy Sutley to tour and visit with them in Kansas City." More than 20 students, along with their mentors, made the trip. Whether a Republican, a Democrat, or anything in between – it is hard to argue with the virtue of young people setting a goal, working toward it, and succeeding. "There are students who were told by teachers they would never graduate, but are now on the honor roll. There are students who were skipping school and getting in trouble, but are now getting their GEDs and working. I was pleased to be able to organize the stop and a briefing during their stay in Washington, so they could meet with federal officials interested in their program and their work. This trip started in Kansas City, and they made stops in Akron and Pittsburgh, before rolling into DC." From Capitol Hill they will go on to Baltimore, Philadelphia, and end their journey in New York City. MINDDRIVE’S mission is to inspire students to learn, expand their vision of the future, and to have a positive impact on urban workforce development. The program is funded through the national sponsorships of Bridgestone, Hertz Corporation, SONIC®, America's Drive-In®, American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), VML, and KCP&L as well as through local foundations and individual contributors. MINDDRIVE serves 30 students from the urban core of Kansas City, currently working with 5 area schools; there are 21 students participating in Automotive Design Studio and 9 in Contemporary Communications. The students choose their course and also are given the freedom to align with the particular aspect of the project that gets them the most jazzed. Mentors play a huge role in finding what that spark is for each student, then figuring out a way to inspire them in that direction. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
05.31.2013	Kansas City – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce that the Kansas City Public Library will soon receive a grant from the Big Read. The Big Read is a partnership between the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and Arts Midwest. The NEA initiative is an effort to put reading back into the lives of kids, adults, and American culture. The Big Read will provide opportunities for interested, area residents to read and talk about one or more of 30 selected pieces of literature. Those pieces include The Great Gatsby, A Lesson Before Dying, A Wizard of Earthsea, The Namesake, True Grit, and Into the Beautiful North. There are close to 80 not-for-profits getting grants that will total $1 million. The Kansas City Public Library grant is for $17,000. Individual grants range from $3,000 to $17,300, and the monies will be used for community-based Big Read programs. Organizations receiving grants include libraries, arts and humanities councils, museums, theater companies, universities, and others. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
05.22.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Disabled American Veterans (DAV), and The American Legion announced a new partnership to help reduce the compensation claims backlog for Veterans. The effort—the Fully Developed Claims (FDC) Community of Practice—is a key part of VA’s overall transformation plan to end the backlog in 2015 and process claims within 125 days at 98% accuracy. VA can process FDCs in half the time it takes for a traditionally filed claim. “VA prides itself on our ongoing partnership with organizations that represent Veterans throughout the claims process,” said Undersecretary for Benefits Allison A. Hickey. “A Fully Developed Claim is the most effective way to ensure a Veteran’s claim never reaches the backlog—and is the basis for this new initiative between VA and what we expect will be an ever-increasing number of Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs) and others who represent Veterans at various points of the claims process. ” “This new initiative takes a common-sense approach to working smarter to better serve our injured and ill Veterans,” said DAV Washington Headquarters Executive Director Barry Jesinoski “DAV is pleased to be working with the VA to help improve the disability compensation system.” “We have been working with VA since last December on its fully developed claims process,” said James E. Koutz, national commander of The American Legion. “Teams of our experts have already gone to VA regional offices in Denver, Pittsburgh, Baltimore and other cities to help identify best practices for FDCs, and to further train our own service officers.” Koutz said the Legion’s next visit in support of the FDC program is planned for June at the VA regional office in Reno, Nev. Claims are considered to be “fully developed” when Veterans submit all available supporting evidence, like private treatment records and notice of federal treatment records, to VA at the time they first file a formal claim and certify they have no more evidence to submit. This is the information that VA needs to make a determination on a disability claim. The FDC program supports the sharing of best practices across Veterans Service Organizations, who help thousands of Veterans each year with their compensation claims, to identify up front all evidence necessary to support a Veteran’s claim. Veterans then certify that they have no additional evidence to submit, and VA can process the claim in half the time it takes for a traditionally filed claim. VSOs have long played an integral role in submitting Veterans claims - often with representatives working within VA regional offices. VA has consulted with them throughout the development and implementation of VA’s plan to end the backlog in 2015 to ensure best practices and their unique insights were incorporated. The American Legion and DAV are the first to step forward to work with VA on the FDC program, and that program has led to a much more efficient process. Meaningful progress will be felt by increasing numbers of Veterans as more VSOs participate with VA in the FDC program. This initiative is just the latest example of the collaboration between VA and VSOs. In July, VA held a workshop to obtain the views of VSO representatives and to provide them with information on the effort to eliminate the claims backlog. The main focus of the workshop was VA’s emphasis on the shared goal of better serving Veterans and positive impact of filing Fully Developed Claims. These workshops will be replicated in VBA regional offices across the country. “VA will continue to work with our VSO partners to provide the world-class health care and benefits that Veterans have earned through their service,” said Undersecretary Hickey. This is the latest effort in support of the Secretary’s plan to reduce the backlog. Last month, VA announced an initiative to expedite compensation claims decisions for Veterans who have waited one year or longer. On April 19, VA began prioritizing claims decisions for Veterans who have been waiting the longest, by providing provisional decisions that allow eligible Veterans to begin collecting compensation benefits quickly. With a provisional decision, a Veteran has a year to submit additional information to support a claim before the decision becomes final. On May 15, VA announced that it is mandating overtime for claims processors in its 56 regional benefits offices through the end of fiscal year 2013 to help eliminate the backlog, with continued emphasis on high-priority claims for homeless Veterans and those claiming financial hardship, the terminally ill, former Prisoners of War, Medal of Honor recipients, and Veterans filing Fully Developed Claims. As of May 17, the paperless claims processing system known as the Veterans Benefits Management System, or VBMS, has been deployed to 46 out of 56 regional office locations, and about 18% of VA’s current claim inventory is in an electronic format. Claims for Wounded Warriors separating from the military for medical reasons will continue to be handled separately and on a priority basis with the Department of Defense through the Integrated Disability Evaluation System (IDES). On average, Wounded Warriors separating through IDES currently receive VA compensation benefits in 2 months following their separation from service. Veterans can learn more about disability benefits on the joint Department of Defense-VA web portal eBenefits at https://www.ebenefits.va.gov and find information about filing Fully Developed Claims here: https://www.benefits.va.gov/transformation/fastclaims/. Servicemembers returning from active duty in combat theatres are eligible for five years of VA medical care – regardless of the status of any disability claim submitted. Medical care is not withheld while disability claims are under review. For more information on enrolling in VA health benefits, please visit https://www.va.gov/healthbenefits/ . Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
05.10.2013	Body text goes here. Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book. It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.
04.26.2013	Kansas City - Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, has reintroduced the Patient Centered Quality Care for Life Act (HR 1666) to help those with chronic and serious illness in Missouri’s Fifth District, and around the country, get better, clearer and more comprehensive health care. This bipartisan legislation focuses on making sure palliative care is available to patients and families facing serious or life threatening illness. It also provides assistance to improve workforce training for those caring for patients, as well as public education and advocacy, and research. “It can be a very confusing and emotionally exhausting time for loved ones as they try to care for chronically ill family members,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Unfortunately, right now, those who need to focus on fighting their illness must also battle a deluge of confusing information, duplicative tests and multiple doctors. Palliative care provides patients with a team of trained professionals to help them address their care and improve their quality of life.” Congressman Cleaver continues his efforts to reach across the aisle and work with all Members of Congress. Co-sponsoring this bill with him is Alabama’s Republican Congressman Spencer Bachus. "We know that more people are living for longer periods of time after being treated for cancer and other serious illnesses," said U.S. Representative Bachus. "But there are often gaps in the follow-up care they receive. Through better awareness and coordination of services, we can help people more easily resume daily life after difficult medical treatments. We can also reduce fragmentation that raises costs in our health care system." Palliative care is one of the fastest growing trends in health care, giving patients added support with specialists who can help navigate the medical landscape. Removing unnecessary stress and coordinating care for both the patient and the patient’s family are top priorities of this legislation. It is legislation that is endorsed by the American Cancer Society. "This legislation launches a national effort to improve the fragmented care that people with cancer and other serious diseases often receive, and ensure a seamless experience delivered by doctors and nurses in a team-based approach that treats a patient's pain and other symptoms, along with the disease itself," said Chris Hansen, president of the American Cancer Society Action Network (ACS CAN). "With access to palliative care, patients' quality of life is improved from the point of diagnosis, during treatment, and follow up care." The Patient Centered Quality Care for Life Act Would: *Authorize a National Patient-Centered Care and Quality of Life Stakeholder Strategic Summit to analyze and identify strategy for improving the quality of life for the rapidly growing population of patients facing serious illness. *Establish a Quality of Life Patient and Professional Awareness Initiative to educate patients about the health advantages of receiving patient centered palliative care and the services it provides. *Establish a professional workforce initiative to train allied health professionals including nurses, nursing assistants, social workers and patient navigators to enhance symptom assessment and management, communications skills, coordinated care and other quality of life focused treatment for all clinical specialties. *Direct the National Institutes of Health Director to expand and intensify national research programs in symptom management, palliative, psychosocial and survivorship care. “Research tells us that palliative care works, giving patients a better chance of prolonging life and doing it in a cost-efficient and dignified way,” said Representative Cleaver. “And our hearts tell us taking care of the ill and their families, in the best way possible, is the right thing to do.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
04.11.2013	KANSAS CITY – Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO05) and Congressman Sam Graves (R-MO06) introduced new legislation (H.R. 1454) to help area farmers, ranchers and producers recover from last year’s record drought. This legislation would make critically important supplemental agriculture disaster assistance available. “I am very pleased Congressman Sam Graves is cosponsoring this legislation with me,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “We both believe the bond between rural and urban legislators needs to be strengthened, so our constituents are represented fairly and treated justly in Washington.” “The livestock industry is critical to Missouri’s economic well-being,” said Congressman Graves. “For instance, Missouri is the second largest producer of beef cattle in the nation, and sixth in overall cattle production. But cattle farmers and other livestock producers have been particularly hard hit by last year’s historic drought. Our bill helps them receive assistance so they don’t lose their livelihoods.” Both Congressmen know last year’s drought was devastating and have spent numerous hours with constituents in their districts listening to concerns. The driving force behind this legislation is to provide much needed relief in their districts. They are also hoping to push leadership into action on disaster assistance and on the reauthorization of a long overdue 5-year farm bill. The bill would extend disaster assistance to programs that expired in October of 2011 and make funds available for Fiscal Year 2012-2013. It would extend 4 of the 5 USDA disaster programs that were created in the 2008 Farm Bill. The authorization for these programs expired in October of 2011. They were reauthorized in legislation this past January, but they were not given specific funding levels. This legislation includes changes in the Livestock Indemnity Program (LIP), the Livestock Forage Program (LFP), Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Bees, & Farm-raised Fish (ELAP), the Tree Assistance Program (TAP), and fruit losses from 2012 freezes in the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP). “Our hope is, by extending assistance in these areas, we can keep these crucial safety net programs available and accessible to those who desperately need them,” said Representative Cleaver. “Constituents from my district and across the state of Missouri have been contacting my office over the last year asking when disaster assistance for livestock would be restored by Congress,” said Congressman Graves. “They have been waiting on a farm bill to help restore the exhausted disaster assistance funds but Congress has failed to act. That is why I have joined with my good friend Congressman Cleaver to introduce this bipartisan bill that will help the livestock industry recover from last year’s drought.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
03.19.2013	Kansas City – Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce the appointment of Mr. Bill Zahner, CEO/President of the internationally acclaimed A. Zahner Company, to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Manufacturing Council. Mr. Zahner was one of 26 leaders in the manufacturing industry throughout the country recently chosen for this prestigious position. “Manufacturing is a critical component in the success of our economy,” said Missouri’s Fifth District Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “And Bill Zahner is a perfect example of a business leader who values employees and continually leads the way in his profession.” The official notification was made recently by U.S. Deputy Secretary of Commerce Rebecca Blank, who visited Kansas City in July of last year. The 2013 Manufacturing Council is in place to make sure there is open and ongoing communication between the federal government and the manufacturing sector. One of the tasks of the Council will be to assist the Department of Commerce and the U.S. government with analyzing business practices, and to provide suggestions on how to keep manufacturing in this country competitive on a global level, while making it stronger here at home. The United States is the world’s largest manufacturing economy, employing nearly 12 million Americans last year, and producing $1.7 trillion in manufactured products in 2011, according to the Department of Commerce. A. Zahner Company is a world class, fourth generation engineering and fabrication business, headquartered in Kansas City, and known throughout the world for the use of metal in architecture and art. The company continues to produce an impressive list of accomplishments from one end of the globe to the other. Recently completed projects include the Kauffman Center for Performing Arts in Kansas City, The World Trade Center Museum in New York City, and the NASCAR Hall of Fame in Charlotte, North Carolina. Projects underway include the College of Media and Communication in Doha, Qatar, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Cleveland, Ohio, and the new Emerson College in Los Angeles, California. Zahner boasts almost 200 employees in offices and plants in Kansas City and Dallas, Texas. “I know Bill Zahner will represent Missouri’s Fifth District exceedingly well and will responsibly address issues and problems facing the U.S. manufacturing industry in these challenging times,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I know he will make effective decisions which will make a difference. And those in the Department of Commerce are looking forward to the privilege of working with him.” Mr. Zahner was chosen from a wide and competitive pool of applicants. He will serve a two-year term. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
02.28.2013	1 in 4 women in the United States is a victim of domestic violence. 3 women in our country are murdered by their partners every day. 1 out of every 6 women has survived attempted or completed sexual assault. 15 million children in the United States are exposed to domestic violence each year. “The numbers speak for themselves. And the faces behind those numbers make clear why this legislation is so very important,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. Congressman Cleaver is praising the House passage of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). It was previously passed in the Senate. “The strong, bipartisan VAWA bill contains critical measures to protect vulnerable populations who have suffered too long from violence,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver. “This includes Native American women, immigrants, and members of the LGBT community.” Congressman Cleaver is a cosponsor of the House version (H.R.11) of the Senate bill (S.47) that just passed. The vote was 286-138 in the House. The Leahy-Crapo Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (S.47) is a comprehensive bipartisan bill that passed in the Senate, 78-22, with the support of all Democrats, all female Senators, and a majority of Republicans. The bill, supported by the National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women, a coalition of more than 1,300 organizations, incorporates years of analysis of the problem and solutions proposed by law enforcement, victims, and victims service providers. This legislation provides for extended protections of survivors, as well as additional rape kits, a national registry of forensic evidence from sexual assault cases, domestic violence discussions on college campuses, more temporary housing for victims of domestic abuse, and stronger anti-trafficking statutes. “Women, and men, in Missouri’s Fifth District have had to wait too long – more than 500 days – for the reauthorization of VAWA,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Preventing domestic abuse, assisting victims, and prosecuting perpetrators are not partisan issues, but victories in protecting all women and all of those who have suffered in silence. My hope is they will not have to do so any longer.” The text of the legislation, for which Congressman Cleaver voted, can be found here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
02.21.2013	“My heart and prayers go out at this tragic time in Kansas City. The heavy burden of the loss of this historic family legacy has taken a human toll and I know our city will do what it always does – pull together in times of grief and challenge. I would also like to express my deep respect and appreciation for the first responders, who brought their consistent professionalism and bravery to the scene within moments to prevent further death, injury, and destruction.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
02.12.2013	“Scott Taylor is a tenacious advocate for small businesses in Kansas City, who has worked to make Kansas City, Missouri, a beacon for business beyond the metropolitan area,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Small businesses created over two-thirds of the new jobs over the last fifteen years. But America's twenty-seven million small businesses continue to face a lack of credit and tight lending standards, with the number of small business loans down nearly 5 million since the financial crisis in 2008. We have made progress, but we can and must do more to keep our economy and our small businesses going strong.” Councilman Taylor led the effort to “Cut the Red Tape” out of Kansas City, Missouri, identifying and implementing sixty-two specific suggestions to make it easier for small businesses to grow. “Cut the Red Tape” outlines four key action items identified by the committee to help small businesses thrive in Kansas City, including: creating a positive, business-friendly customer service culture at City Hall; enhancing business-concierge services at KC BizCare to create the best physical one-stop shop in the United States; creating the best virtual one-stop shop for small business in the United States; and creating better access to capital for local companies through an innovative micro-loan program. “I am pleased that our Small Business Committee work continues to be recognized at the national stage, as we are one of the first city councils in the country to undertake this comprehensive effort to advocate for our small family-owned businesses,” said Councilman Scott Taylor. “Congressman Cleaver has been a strong advocate and partner in our efforts to assist small businesses.” At the federal level, with Congressman Cleaver’s support, Congress has passed and President Obama has signed eighteen direct tax breaks that bolster small business growth, including new credits for hiring unemployed workers and veterans and investing in new equipment. With the America Invents Act, Congress collectively cut red tape to help small businesses and entrepreneurs raise capital from investors more efficiently so they can expand and hire more quickly. And with the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, Democrats and Republicans came together and established a tax credit that helped an estimated 360,000 small businesses with the cost of providing health insurance for 2 million workers in 2011. That credit will increase in 2014. “We can protect our consumers, safeguard workers, encourage our small businesses, and ensure that all Americans have the chance to start out on a level playing field,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “We can create an atmosphere of innovation and entrepreneurship, while ensuring we have responsible levels of realistic regulation. I look forward to continuing to work with stakeholders at all levels of government, from Councilman Taylor and other members of the City Council, to my colleagues in Congress, and above all, my constituents, to keep this effort going.” Councilman Taylor is an attorney by trade and a resident of Kansas City, Missouri. His full biography is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, North Kansas City, Gladstone, Claycomo, and all of Ray, Lafayette, and Saline Counties. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.15.2013	President Obama has signed the World War I Centennial Commission Act, introduced by Congressman Cleaver. This establishes a World War I Centennial Commission which will spearhead the planning and execution of the war commemorations throughout the country and in Kansas City in 2014. "This is an extremely important and exciting day for Kansas City and all of Missouri's Fifth District," said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. "After years of working on this legislation, we can now finally say, it is done. And soon the eyes of the nation, and indeed the world, will be on Kansas City as we prepare for the centennial commemoration of World War I." The Congressman spoke on the House Floor about the importance of this issue in December. Video is available here. "We look forward to working closely with the Centennial Commission to inspire citizens throughout the nation to learn more about this important time in history and discover ways in which they can honor the past," stated Dr. Mary Cohen, Board of Trustees Chair, National World War I Museum at Liberty Memorial." This legislation reflects the original bill Congressman Cleaver first introduced in 2008 to honor the memory of our veterans and to ensure that the upcoming centennial will be appropriately remembered. "I believe this bill is a symbol of bipartisanship and cooperation, and I have been pleased to work with both sides of the aisle to see it enacted," said Congressman Cleaver. "Millions served in World War I, many of them making the ultimate sacrifice, and now it is our job to serve their memory. Kansas City is home to the National World War 1 Museum at Liberty Memorial and I am thrilled this Commission will benefit from their contributions to our country." Congressman Cleaver introduced this legislation with Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC). Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Missouri Senators Claire McCaskill and Roy Blunt. The 12-member centennial commission will meet initially and regularly at the Liberty Memorial. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and a member of the Congressional Black Caucus. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
01.03.2013	Body text goes here. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Maecenas auctor laoreet vestibulum. Suspendisse sed viverra magna. Suspendisse egestas lacus ut massa auctor ultrices. Maecenas bibendum nec risus eu convallis. Phasellus ac sollicitudin sapien. Nunc egestas interdum mauris sit amet imperdiet. Mauris a tellus felis. Duis euismod aliquam tincidunt. Curabitur ac consectetur ante. Vestibulum at arcu dui. Mauris hendrerit turpis id enim vulputate fringilla. Donec bibendum volutpat dui gravida commodo. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Cras eget augue sed sapien malesuada pulvinar. Etiam mauris ligula, vulputate et nisl vitae, congue tristique mauris. Duis aliquam neque in diam viverra, et rhoncus elit ultricies. Praesent a luctus est. Nulla facilisi. Ut aliquet felis in massa venenatis volutpat.
01.03.2013	The 113th Congress is now officially underway. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, (D-Missouri) was sworn in Wednesday afternoon in the Nation’s Capitol for his fifth term as a United States Congressman. This will be the Congressman’s first term representing the enlarged and newly configured Fifth District following re-districting by the Missouri Legislature. “I am looking forward to serving the constituents of Missouri’s Fifth District - old and new - for another term,” said Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II. “I will approach this term with the passion and commitment I have brought to my four prior terms in Congress. Each and every day I will work tirelessly to serve all constituents through heartfelt thought, careful examination of issues, respectful civility and dedicated action.” Speaker of the House, John Boehner, who was elected to another term in that position, conducted the swearing in ceremonies for Members of the House. Vice President Joe Biden did the same in the Senate. While there will be some celebration following today’s pomp and pageantry , Congressman Cleaver cautions the serious work ahead should be the priority of the day. “Elected officials should roll up our sleeves and focus on the American people – and we need to do it now,” said Congressman Cleaver. “We have got to fully address the impending sequester, rebuild our economy, create jobs, lower our national debt, pass a comprehensive farm bill, help victims of Hurricane Sandy, and the list goes on and on. Those who have elected us rightfully demand that we move forward quickly, responsibly, and in a spirit of cooperation – absent the political posturing.” A joint session of the House and Senate will be held today to make the President’s re-election official through a count of electoral votes. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and a member of the Congressional Black Caucus. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
12.31.2012	Today, the World War I Centennial Commission Act passed the House of Representatives with overwhelming support, by a vote of 401-5. Congressman Cleaver spoke on the House Floor about this issue earlier this month. Video is available here. “With this legislation, which reflects the original bill I first introduced in 2008, we have honored the memory of our veterans, and ensured that the upcoming centennial will be appropriately and auspiciously remembered," stated Congressman Cleaver. "I believe this bill is a symbol of bipartisanship and cooperation, and I have been pleased to work with both sides of the aisle to see it enacted. Millions served in World War I, many of them making the ultimate sacrifice, and now it is our job to serve their memory. Kansas City is home to the National World War I Museum at Liberty Memorial and I am thrilled this Commission will benefit from their contributions to our country.” "We look forward to working closely with the Centennial Commission to inspire citizens throughout the nation to learn more about this important time in history and discover ways in which they can honor the past," stated Dr. Mary Cohen, Board of Trustees Chair, National World War I Museum at Liberty Memorial. The World War I Centennial Commission Act will now be presented to President Obama for his signature. This legislation, which Congressman Cleaver introduced with Congressman Ted Poe and Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton, would establish a commission to ensure a suitable observance of the centennial of World War I. The centennial commission would meet initially and regularly at the Liberty Memorial. On December 12, a version of the legislation was reported out of the Committee on Natural Resources, and on that same day, it passed the House by a unanimous voice vote. On December 21, the Senate passed an amended version of the legislation by Unanimous Consent. Today, the House approved the amended language. You can read the bill for yourself by clicking here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and a member of the Congressional Black Caucus. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus.
11.13.2012	Washington, D.C. – Emanuel Cleaver II (D-MO) and Congressmen Kevin Yoder (R-KS) today received the Consensus Civility Award for their efforts in bringing civility to public life as Members of Congress. They were among the six members of the inaugural class of Consensus Civility Award winners who were recognized this morning at a ceremony at Rockhurst University in Kansas City. “It is a great honor to receive the Consensus Civility Award, and an honor that gives me hope,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Often, the debate in DC can devolve into one with a great deal more heat than light. As we return to Washington to work on the issues facing our nation, we must remember that while partisanship is a vital component of democracy, only healthy disagreement can propel us forward, to better ideas and brighter days. Embracing a civil exchange of ideas and respectful differences of opinion fosters real debate, and allows our best ideas to shine.” “Receiving the Consensus Civility Award is a tremendous honor for me. I have always believed in treating people with respect and dignity. Especially in an environment like Washington, D.C., civility and respect are needed to bring people together to work on finding positive solutions to our nation’s problems,” stated Congressman Yoder. “In any capacity however, I believe you get things done when you respect those who you work with and approach problem solving with open ears and an open mind.” The other award winners include Greg Graves, Chief Executive Officer, Burns & McDonnell; Carol Grimaldi, Executive Director, Brush Creek Community Partners; Father Norman Rotert, retired priest, Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph; and the Kansas City Star. Consensus, founded in 1984, started the Civility Project in 2010 to focus attention on how to build more civility into the way leaders engage the public, and into how citizens accept the challenge to have a voice in public issues. For more information about the findings and the project, click here.
09.26.2012	Kansas City – Missouri Fifth District Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, today announced a half-million dollar federal grant for Hope House in Independence. “Congressman Cleaver is currently serving his 4th term in Washington – while always making sure he never forgets the people he is representing here at home,” said Hope House CEO MaryAnne Metheny. Metheny spoke at a news conference, telling those in the audience, that these funds will be used to continue the Civil Legal Program for the next three years. It is a program that serves hundreds of local domestic abuse survivors each year. “It allows survivors to access the services they need but don’t have financial resources to get,” said attorney Mary Weir. “Without these professionals to assist them, they may go for an order of protection, for instance, and lose in court. This often results in them going back home. These can be life and death situations, and a program like this is a game changer.” Congressman Cleaver was thanked by Hope House leaders, board members and employees, for being, ‘a fierce supporter of local women – and for always having their backs’. The Congressman pledged to continue doing all he can for those who are trying to get out of abusive situations that are threatening their lives … and the lives of their children. Hope House, the largest domestic services agency in Missouri, services form a safety net of prevention, education and support for more than 10,000 victims of abuse every year. Residential and outreach services are provided through two secure locations in Independence and Lee’s Summit, MO. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
09.24.2012	Kansas City, Missouri– On September 25, 2012, Missouri residents joined Congressman Cleaver for a National Voter Registration Day event to make sure all eligible voters are registered and prepared to vote this fall. The Kansas City event was one of several across the country on the same day and at the same time, hosted by members of the Congressional Black Caucus as part of the "For the People" Voter Protection Initiative, under H. Res. 542. This Initiative brings attention to block the vote efforts, like restrictive voter ID laws, that may impede as many as 5 million people from registering to vote and/or casting a ballot this November. “Voting is a fundamental right for all American citizens, and these restrictive voting laws threaten to disenfranchise large groups of civic minded voters,” said Congressman Cleaver. “As the author of legislation to expand and protect voting rights for students, I am committed to ensuring that no eligible voter is turned away from the ballot box during early voting and on Election Day.” At least thirty-four states have introduced laws that would require voters to show photo identification in order to vote, and at least twelve states have introduced laws that would require proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate, to register to vote or to vote. In Missouri, voter identification legislation was passed by the legislature, but later struck down. Who: Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, local leaders, and studentsWhat: National Voter Registration Day EventWhere: Grand Hall of Union Station, 30 W. Pershing Road, Kansas City, Missouri 64108 When: September 25, 2012, from10:00 AM-11:00 AM
09.19.2012	Kansas City, Mo – Congressman Cleaver, together with the U.S. Economic Development Association, is pleased to announce that nearly $1 million in grant funding has been awarded to the University of Missouri Kansas City. “I applaud UMKC for earning this award, and I look forward to following their continued success in expanding innovation, commercialization, and new enterprise formation in Kansas City, Missouri, and beyond,” said Congressman Cleaver. “This award recognizes UMKC as a soon-to-be model for innovating in the heart of America, increasing the quantity and quality of entrepreneurs coming out of Missouri’s Fifth District, and creating jobs and good opportunities for local economic development. I was proud to advocate for UMKC’s application and am pleased that the Department of Commerce has recognized their continued excellence.” “We are pleased to be part of this strong collaboration to move the region forward in digital innovation,” said Maria Meyers, Director of the UMKC Innovation Center. “The Digital Sandbox will fill a much needed role in bringing together our entrepreneurs with big industry and providing support for early stage proof of concept development.” The award will fund UMKC’s Digital Sandbox Proof of Concept Center, which creates a new process for commercialization in Kansas City by clustering digital innovation in a central hub and providing the needed technology infrastructure. The Sandbox addresses two immediate gaps in the entrepreneurial ecosystem: connecting large industry to the entrepreneurial and university research networks and providing technical assistance funding for early-stage concept development. The project seeks to produce up to 15 new ventures over a two-year period. This award was funded through the i6 Challenge, which is a multi-agency competition led by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship, to promote American innovation, foster entrepreneurship, and increase the commercialization of ideas into viable companies. The competition is designed to encourage and reward universities and research centers to create proof of concept centers that identify innovations to commercialize and help them to put together the building blocks to create high growth, successful companies, including business model support, access to investors, mentors and access to potential customers. Over the last two years, OIE has provided $24 million to 12 winners across the United States to create their own centers for innovation and entrepreneurship. More information on i6 is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
09.12.2012	The National Farmers Union has honored Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, with the prestigious Golden Triangle Award. The annual award is presented to members of Congress who have demonstrated leadership and support policies that benefit America’s family farmers, ranchers, fishermen and rural communities. A video of Congressman Cleaver's reaction after accepting the award is available here. “I am honored and humbled to be chosen for the Golden Triangle award,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Though until recently, my district primarily covered a more urban area – Kansas City – I believe you cannot live in Missouri without being conscious of, and concerned about, rural issues. That idea was impressed upon me at a young age. I grew up in Waxahachie, Texas, and spent my early years helping my grandparents on their farm. ‘Helping’ meant milking the cow, feeding the animals, and serving as the machinery when it came time for harvest.” This year’s Golden Triangle recipients were selected for their leadership on a variety of issues, including discussions for the next farm bill and protecting agriculture from even deeper cuts during budget negotiations earlier this year. “Recipients of the Golden Triangle Award have been strong advocates for family farmers and ranchers, and support similar principles and policies as Farmers Union,” said NFU President Roger Johnson. “We are pleased to honor those who have proven to be true allies of our organization and our members across the country.” “Despite the political partisanship plaguing us, we need to get a Farm Bill done before the end of the year, and I applaud the farmers and ranchers for coming to Washington to press Congress and hold the Farm Bill Now Rally,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver. “ I am more than ready to work towards passage of a full reauthorization of the Farm Bill before 2013.” The current Farm Bill expires on September 30th. The Congressman has vowed to continue advocating for passage of a Farm Bill that will support farmers, ranchers and producers, as well as those in urban communities, who rely on these programs to help feed their families. A full list of Golden Triangle Award recipients is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
09.12.2012	“Today, I join President Barack Obama and Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton in condemning in the strongest terms the murder of United States Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens and three other American diplomats. It should be clear that the freedom we enjoy in this country has been sustained by their service and their willingness to defend it, even in the most perilous times and in the face of the gravest dangers. This attack must not diminish the hopefulness and dedication that were the hallmarks of Ambassador Stevens’ service, nor should we tolerate those who would leverage this tragedy for political purposes; to do so insults the life he and his colleagues lived and their dedication to unity.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
09.11.2012	The House Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee National Parks, Forests and Public Lands held a hearing for the new version the World War I bill, on September 11, at 2pm. "It was my honor and pleasure to testify at this hearing in support of the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri," said Congressman Cleaver. "This bill is in line with my previous legislation. It would establish a commission to ensure a suitable observance of the centennial of World War I, to designate memorials to the service of members of the United States Armed Forces in World War I, including a National World War I Memorial on the National Mall in the District of Columbia, and most importantly, it would designate the Liberty Memorial as 'The National World War I Museum and Memorial.' You can read the entire bill for yourself by clicking here." Watch the Archived Hearing Webcast of this hearing, and stay tuned for further updates. WITNESSES AND TESTIMONY: Panel I The Honorable Emanuel Cleaver, II, D-MO (H.R. 6364) Member of Congress The Honorable Rep. Ted Poe, R-TX (H.R. 6364) Member of Congress The Honorable Mike Thompson, D-CA (H.R. 4969) Member of Congress Panel II Stephen E. Whitesell (H.R. 6364) Regional Director, National Capital Region National Park Service Department of the Interior Dr. Judy Scott Feldman (H.R. 6364) Chairman and President National Coalition to Save Our Mall (Truth in Testimony Form) Edwin L. Fountain (H.R. 6364) Director World War I Memorial Foundation (Truth in Testimony Form) Carl Rountree (H.R. 4969) Assistant Director Bureau of Land Management U.S. Department of the Interior Merita Whatley (H.R. 4969) Manager Point Arena Lighthouse
09.11.2012	"Eleven years ago, the way we live our lives in this great country, changed forever. Innocent, American lives were lost. Heroes sacrificed themselves to save others. And a sense of security was stripped away. But, in those dark hours, the light that has always guided our nation, continued to show us the way.” “In the depths of tragedy, we pulled together to triumph. We did not let politics divide us. Instead, our common goals allowed us to work together, as Americans. Today, we honor those we lost, their families and friends. We show our appreciation to the first responders and volunteers who risked life and limb to save, and to search for survivors. And we thank the committed men and women of our Armed Forces, who continue to protect us, and who have prevented further terrorist attacks, here and abroad.” “Time will never erase the memories of 9/11, nor should it. We must continue to be vigilant in protecting our troops, our law enforcement officers and all citizens from those who would threaten our way of life. We will remain committed to sound policies and we will stay united on these issues. May God bless all of the victims and families of 9/11. And may God continue to bless the United States of America." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
08.31.2012	Kansas City – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, is pleased to announce a two-month extension for emergency grazing on land designated as Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres. This is a positive step forward in the ongoing effort to relieve the pressure in the midst of this year’s historic drought. “Our fight here in Missouri has reached competent and caring ears in Washington,” said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II.“ Still, we have many challenges ahead as we continue torebuild from last year’s flood and face this disasterous drought.” Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack has announced the extension as part of the Obama Administration and the Department of Agriculture’s commitment to the thousands of families and businesses affected by drought. On August 23, 2012, Congressman Cleaver, along with six other members of Missouri’s Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to the Farm Bureau Administrator Bruce Nelson requesting this 60-day extension for emergency grazing in Missouri. “While we have seen a little cooler weather lately, these oppressive conditions are expected tocontinue,” said Congressman Cleaver. “And I will continue, as well, monitoring the situation and working on behalf of all constituents to make sure when help is needed, it is there.” The full text of the letter is below.August 23, 2012 Administrator Nelson:As you know, the state of Missouri is experiencing a severe drought which has placed an enormous stress on livestock production operations. Our offices have been contacted by producers inquiring about the potential extension of the emergency release of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands for livestock grazing past the September 30th deadline.With the state in the midst of a historic drought, livestock producers need more time for grazing to ensure that they can get through the Winter months. According to USDA's National Agricultural Statistics Service, Missouri leads the nation in very poor to poor ratings for pastures with 98% of pastures falling within these two categories. This number is obviously very concerning to us and certainly precipitates a need for an extension of the September 30th deadline.We, respectfully, request that the Farm Service Agency grant the state of Missouri a 60 day extension for emergency grazing on CRP lands. Last year, this extension was granted to some areas of the Southwest due to drought conditions. We understand that your Agency may already be considering an extension. However, we ask that you act immediately on granting an extension in order to give producers the necessary certainty to plan for the months ahead.Thank you for taking our request into consideration. Please feel free to contact us directly if you have any questions or require additional information.Sincerely,Rep. Sam GravesRep. Blaine LuektemeyerRep. Billy LongRep. Vicky HartzlerRep. Emanuel Cleaver, IIRep. Russ CarnahanRep. Jo Ann Emerson Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
08.28.2012	Kansas City - Congressman Cleaver took his fight to increase the minimum wage to a Kansas City grocery store this week. The United States Representative went grocery shopping with a local woman, in an effort to highlight the struggle she, and thousands of others in Missouri’s Fifth District, face trying to put food on the table and clothes on their children’s backs. “These are people doing all of the things we tell them they are supposed to do in America to get ahead,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “They are working hard, playing by the rules, and trying to provide for their families. The federal government should be there to support them in their effort to climb into the middle class.” Congressman Cleaver is a cosponsor of H.R. 6211, the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2012. The proposed legislation would increase the minimum wage in three 85-cent steps, over three years, from $7.25 to $9.80 per hour. It has been three years since minimum wage workers have seen an increase in their paycheck. H.R. 6211 would also increase the required cash wage for tipped workers in annual 85-cent increases. Research shows women make up two-thirds of all tipped workers in America and are much more likely to live in poverty. Workers, similar to Allison Bitzer, who is employed full-time at a local fast food restaurant, an honors student at Penn Valley Community College, and a married mother of two young girls. “Every month is a struggle,” said Bitzer. “I have to juggle bills to decide what gets paid and what doesn’t. And there isn’t enough money left over for food sometimes. Instead of fruit, vegetables, milk, and meat, dinner often ends up being hot dogs and macaroni and cheese. That’s all I can afford.” “The price of nearly everything has increased; from the price of milk, to the price at the pump, to a college education,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver. “Anyone who works hard and plays by the rules should not live in poverty. Raising the minimum wage helps families make ends meet.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
08.27.2012	Congressman Cleaver announced today that $250,000 in federal grants for youth substance abuse prevention efforts that will benefit his constituents in Lee’s Summit and Kansas City, Missouri. The grants are administered under the Drug-Free Communities Support Program (DFC) by the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Hickman Mills Prevention Coalition and Lee’s Summit CARES each will be awarded $125,000 for youth drug and alcohol prevention and education programs. The DFC Support Program provides grants of up to $625,000 over five years to community coalitions that facilitate citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. The program awarded grants totaling more than $80 million to nearly 700 community coalitions across the country. “Helping our kids stay drug and alcohol free is critical in securing a good future for them,” says Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “I am honored to help find funding for this worthy effort. Dollars spent now educating our young people will pay great dividends later.” Local problems need local solutions. The DFC Program establishes and strengthens collaboration of community coalitions, as they work to prevent and reduce substance use among youth. Since the passage of the DFC Act in 1997, the DFC program has funded nearly 2,000 coalitions and currently mobilizes nearly 9,000 community volunteers across the country. The philosophy behind the DFC program is that local drug problems require local solutions. With a small Federal investment, the DFC program doubles the amount of funding through the DFC program’s match requirement, to address youth substance use. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
08.21.2012	Kansas City – Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, toured the food pantry at St. Paul’s Episcopal Church at 40th and Main in Kansas City. While this was not the first time the Congressman has visited this location, organizers and those involved in the massive effort to feed the hungry, expressed concern about status of the Farm Bill and how it could hurt area residents. “I have and will continue to fight for the passage of a Farm Bill that does what it is supposed to do,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “And that is to help the rural and hardworking families in this country, especially Missouri’s Fifth District. But as those working in this food pantry pointed out today, the need for a comprehensive and complete Farm Bill extends to all parts of our community.” St. Paul’s pantry serves hundreds of people every week, including children and the elderly. Their ability, as well as that of many other local organizations, to provide secondary food assistance is heavily dependent on resources provided by state and federal food programs. These programs, in turn, depend on components of the Farm Bill. The current Farm Bill expires on September 30th. The Congressman has vowed to continue advocating for passage of a Farm Bill that will support farmers, ranchers and producers, as well as those in urban communities, who rely on these programs to help feed their families. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
08.20.2012	Kansas City – Leaders from the Metropolitan Community College, area businesses and social organizations thanked Missouri Fifth District Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, today for his support in helping the unemployed and underemployed find work. “This is what it is all about,” said U.S. Representative Congressman Cleaver. “Missouri’s Fifth District is working together to put real people back to work. All of the numbers showing the success of this program are astounding. But let us also remember, behind each number, is a face. And this is helping people improve their lives and the futures of their families.” The event marked a celebration for the successful completion of the Sustainability Center project. That project is a job training and social services initiative. Congressman Cleaver was critical in securing funding for that program. Several of those who have completed the program and are now employed, expressed personal appreciation for Congressman Cleaver’s interest and fight to improve their situations. One man remarked, “You gave me an opportunity to make more of my life and I will always thank you for that.” Through the Sustainability Center project, more than 300 area residents received services that ranged from job certification and placement to tutoring and social services. MCC continues to assess all of the numbers, but reports a job placement rate of close to 70% at this point in the process. The project was developed through various partnerships, including the one between MCC, the Green Impact Zone and the Full Employment Council. Other organizations involved include MARC, Green Works, Mattie Rhodes Center and Prep-KC. Local employers were also closely consulted and advised on job training needs. Those businesses include Samuel U. Rodgers Health Center, children’s Mercy Hospitals and Clinics, UPS, Harvesters, and Apria Healthcare. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.20.2012	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, has introduced the Patient Centered Quality Care for Life Act to help those with chronic and serious illness in Missouri’s Fifth District, and around the country, get better, clearer and more comprehensive health care. This legislation focuses on making sure palliative care is available to patients and families facing serious or life threatening illness. It also provides assistance for creating excellence in workforce training for those caring for patients, public education and advocacy, and research. “It can be a very confusing and emotionally exhausting time for loved ones as they try to care for chronically ill family members,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Unfortunately, right now, those who need to focus on fighting their illness must also battle a deluge of confusing information, duplicative tests and multiple doctors. Palliative care provides patients with a team of trained professionals to help them address their care and improve their quality of life.” Palliative care is one of the fastest growing trends in health care. One of the driving forces behind the service is to give patients added support with specialists who can help navigate the medical landscape. Removing unnecessary stress and coordinating care for both the patient and the patient’s family are top priorities of this legislation. Congressman Cleaver is co-sponsoring the Patient Centered Quality Care for Life Act with Representative Spencer Bachus (R-AL). “Research tells us that palliative care works, giving patients a better chance of prolonging life and doing it in a cost-efficient and dignified way,” said Representative Cleaver. “And our heart tells us that taking care of the ill and their families, in the best way possible, is the right thing to do.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.20.2012	"I am very pleased the USDA has listened to our request for help, and has designated all counties in Missouri’s Fifth District as disaster areas," said Congressman Cleaver. U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Vilsack has designated all 114 counties as primary natural disaster areas. The USDA's new designation includes the new areas of Ray, Saline and Lafayette Counties. "Just this week I sponsored a bipartisan letter to Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, asking him to take this action and praising Governor Jay Nixon for the initial request. Our farmers, ranchers, and producers are facing extreme conditions with no relief in sight. Crops and livestock are dying, the soil is drying and stock water supplies are declining. The situation is grave and hardworking men and women in my district are struggling to avoid financial disaster." This designation now means farmers throughout the state will have access to low-interest loans and a variety of other assistance, as they should, from the federal government. Preliminary precipitation data shows June of this year was the 6th driest June in Missouri’s history, and the driest since 1988. Missouri Agricultural Statistics Service estimates 97% and 93% of the topsoil and subsoil moisture supplies, respectively, are in short to very short condition. Farmers are losing crops at a very alarming rate as this drought continues. The USDA’s decision to declare all Missouri counties as disaster areas should go a long way in making assistance immediately available. To see the letter Congressman Cleaver and colleagues wrote to urge this declaration, click here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.19.2012	“We the People: A Look Inside Congress” is a half-day bi-partisan seminar designed to provide young adults with an inside look at the realities of Congress and the legislative process. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) and Congressman Kevin Yoder (KS-03) will share their experiences as members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Attendees will also hear from a panel of distinguished professionals from the Kansas City Metropolitan Area. The morning sessions will be followed by a networking lunch where attendees will meet professionals in the areas of: non-profit management, business, municipal government, federal agencies, law, education, and other related fields. Register here: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/we-the-people-a-look-inside-congress-registration-3704450110 We hope you will join us for this special event to explore civic engagement, expand your understanding of American government and see how Congress and Washington really function. Date: Friday, July 27, 2012 Time: 9:00am – 1:00pm Location: Penn Valley Health Sciences Institute Address: 3444 Broadway, Kansas City, MO 64111 Schedule of Events: 9:00am – 9:15am Check-In 9:15am – 10:30am The Realities of Congress 10:30am – 10:45am *15 minute break* 10:45am – 12:00pm Professional Panel 12:00pm – 1:00pm Networking Lunch Please contact Congressman Cleaver’s Kansas City District Office with any questions regarding this event, whether by phone: (816) 842-4545 or by e-mail: KansasCityIntern@mail.house.gov.
07.16.2012	Kansas City – Missouri’s Fifth District Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, is strongly urging Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, to act quickly on behalf of the state’s farmers and ranchers. The Congressman has sponsored and sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary Vilsack, signed by all members of the Missouri delegation, in the wake of one of the driest summer months in Missouri’s history. Preliminary numbers suggest June was the 6th driest June on record in this state and the driest in almost two-and-a-half decades. “To say I am concerned is an understatement,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver. “Our farmers and ranchers are facing extreme conditions with no relief in sight. Many of these hardworking men and women are struggling with the possibility of financial disaster as this drought drags on.” Congressman Cleaver is praising Governor Jay Nixon’s request for a Secretarial Disaster Declaration for 114 counties in Missouri and asking the USDA to make the requested Federal resources immediately available. “Crops are dying, the soil is drying and stock water supplies are declining,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I will continue to monitor these conditions, push for the disaster designations, and work to make sure emergency aid is available to get farmers, ranchers and producers the help they need and deserve.” The full text of the letter is below. Dear Secretary Vilsack: We write to you in support of Missouri Governor Jay Nixon’s request for a Secretarial Disaster Declaration for 114 counties in Missouri due to excessive heat and drought. In late June, Gov. Nixon requested that the Missouri Farm Service agency perform damage assessments throughout the State of Missouri to ascertain the scope of the drought conditions. Those reports indicated that 114 Missouri counties are experiencing crop and pasture losses of at least 30%, the applicable threshold for a Disaster Declaration. The U.S. Drought Monitor map from late June shows much of the State in a moderate drought, with the northeast and south central areas in a severe drought and southeast counties in an extreme drought. Preliminary precipitation data indicate June 2012 was the 6th driest June on record for Missouri and the driest since 1988. According to the Missouri Agricultural Statistics Service, by the end of June, 97% and 93% of the topsoil and subsoil moisture supplies, respectively, were in short to very short condition. Nearly half of the corn and soybean crop was reported to be in poor to very poor condition, and is the highest percentage for the time of year since 1988. Pasture condition had declined to 76% poor to very poor, and hay and stock water supplies were also declining with more than half in short to very short condition. Relief from these extreme conditions is not expected in the near future, and could persist through August and September. These projections are troubling for crop and forage production across Missouri. A considerable amount of Missouri hay was sold last year to farmers and ranchers in Texas, Kansas, and Oklahoma to assist with the drought recovery in those states, lowering the overall supply of hay across Missouri at the start of this year. Additionally, in many areas of the State, the drought hit just as corn crops began to tassel and pollination began. If pollination is disrupted, corn yields will be down significantly this fall. We truly believe USDA assistance is needed to help our great State recover from this ongoing natural disaster and respectfully urge you to make available requested Federal resources. Please feel free to contact us directly should you require additional information. Sincerely, Members of the Missouri Delegation of the House of Representatives
06.29.2012	Kansas City – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, announced today two huge SAFER grants for two area fire departments. Kansas City’s Fire Department will get more than $4.5 million, and the Raytown Fire Protection District will be awarded a $1.2 million grant. SAFER stands for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant. “Firefighters need to be on the job, not facing layoffs,” said Congressman Cleaver. “ With every city in the country facing severe budget challenges, I am pleased to help bring federal dollars home so our communities are safer, our response times stay efficient, and our hard working firefighters stay employed.” Raytown Fire Chief Rick Mawhirter says it will prevent his department from having to eliminate nine firefighter positions over the next two years. “It is our goal to utilize this grant to maintain our operation until we can restore our funding to a sustainable level,” said Chief Mawhirter. He also thanked the Congressman for his incredible support of public safety. The Department of Homeland Security made initial notifications on the SAFER grants this week. "Kansas City is exceptionally lucky to have Congressman Cleaver and the rest of our area delegation. The Congressman knows first-hand what it is like to balance budgets and make difficult decisions as Mayor. In these difficult economic times every bit of federal funding helps to address the critical needs that are important to our entire community. I cannot thank him enough for his efforts," said Kansas City Mayor Sly James. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
06.28.2012	This is certainly an historic day in this country -- but not a day to deepen our divisions or throw up our hands and say our work is done. For all Americans, Republicans and Democrats, the states and the federal government must continue to work together to make sure healthcare is functional, full, and fair. Because of healthcare, millions of seniors are getting free preventive services, children are not being denied coverage, and young adults are covered under their parents' plan. These are big and important differences helping millions of Americans focus on their jobs and quality of life, instead of worrying about what will happen if they and their family members get injured or sick. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
06.27.2012	Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, announced the introduction of two resolutions in the House of Representatives to honor Kansas City. In a cooperative effort, the Senate also unanimously approved companion resolutions with the leadership of Republican Senator Roy Blunt and Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill. The resolutions honor Major League Baseball as a critical part of American history and the Negro Baseball Leagues for its dedication, sacrifice and contributions to baseball and the country. “Kansas City is the perfect place for the 83rd annual All-Star Game and we are thrilled to host such a monumental and unforgettable event,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Kansas City is, after all, the home of the Negro League World Champion Monarchs and home of the Major League World Champion Royals. It is where Mickey Mantle got his first hit and Babe Ruth one of his last. Where Satchel Paige dominated the mound and Cool Papa Bell hit a ball farther than anyone has ever seen – out of Municipal Stadium and over Brooklyn Avenue.” The 2012 Major League Baseball All-Star Game comes to Kansas City and Kauffman Stadium on July 10th – just a couple of weeks away. It is only fitting that the 40th anniversary of the stadium will also be celebrated at that time. “These bipartisan resolutions honor our nation’s pastime and promote the valuable contributions of baseball to the Kansas City area and to the nation," said Blunt. "Kansas City is fortunate to lay claim to the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, and I’m hopeful that the All-Star game will attract even more fans and visitors from across the country to learn about the rich baseball heritage of Kansas City." “While many folks can’t remember a time when African Americans were excluded from America’s pastime, it’s important for everyone to know that era did exist, and Kansas City’s Negro Leagues Baseball Museum can teach them about the incredibly proud place that the Negro Leagues had in America’s sports history,” said McCaskill. “Sports fans from around the country will have a chance to visit the museum, along with everything else that Kansas City has to offer during the All-Star festivities—because while visitors might arrive as fans of baseball, I know they’ll leave as fans of the whole city.” “So many of the great players in the game today can trace their baseball heritage back to the Negro Leagues,” said U.S. Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Kansas City is so very fortunate to be the city where the league was founded and where we will soon celebrate the 83rd annual Major League Baseball All-Star Game. It is a game where memories are made, history is celebrated and the entire Kansas City area gets to showcase all of the treasures that make it the best place in the country to live.” To learn more about H. Res. 701, Recognizing the teams and players of the Negro Baseball Leagues for their achievements, dedication, sacrifices, and contributions to both baseball and the Nation, To learn more about H. Res. 702, click here. Recognizing Major League Baseball as an important part of the cultural history of American society, celebrating the 2012 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, and honoring Kansas City, Missouri, as the host city of the 83rd All-Star Game, click here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
06.21.2012	Calling Congress’ failure to act on a transportation bill ‘outrageous’ -- Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, is urging his colleagues to act now. “The gridlock in Washington must end, this is unconscionable. While elected officials play politics, people in Missouri’s Fifth District could lose their jobs. Construction is already down, and if we do not act, small businesses and large corporations, alike, will be forced to abandon major construction projects. It is that simple,” said U.S. Rep. Cleaver. “The fallout of this dysfunction will mean the death of thousands of jobs, a stall in the economic recovery and real people without the ability to pay very real bills. And there is nothing simple about that.” If legislation is not enacted by the end of this month, programs across the country will expire, putting more American jobs at risk and threatening the safety of our bridges and roads. This would spell disaster for the economy and for all of those hard-working men and women who will pay the price for these political games. 2.2 million construction and manufacturing workers are already out of work, and this showdown is taking place at what should be the peak of construction season. Some lawmakers have endorsed the idea of extending the highway program for six-months if an agreement can’t be reached. But local businessmen and women tell me that is not enough for them to continue the planning and execution of long-term projects. Or even short-term projects. Barely enough time to begin preparing pink slips. “An extension is not the answer. It’s not even a responsible short-term fix. It is another excuse for Congress not getting the job done. The Senate has already passed a bill with bipartisan support – I am calling on all House members, Democrats and Republicans, to step up and do the same,” said Congressman Cleaver. In March, the Senate overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan, two year transportation bill that would create or save 2 million jobs by investing in much-needed mass transit and bridge and road construction projects. In early June, a bipartisan group of almost 150 mayors from around the country asked Congress to reauthorize the transportation bill, stating, “…each day that passes by without reauthorization only deepens the depth of uncertainty in infrastructure financing, forcing state and local governments across the country to postpone the construction of needed projects with adverse job consequences.” “Democrats and Republicans all use the same roads, bridges and highways. Businesses need a solid and safe infrastructure to get products where they need to be. Killing jobs at a time when the economy is making a slow, but sure, rebound is unfathomable,” said Congressman Cleaver. “It just doesn’t make any sense.” We can no longer kick the can down the road. Billions of dollars and millions of jobs are on the line. FACTS ABOUT THE TRANSPORTATION BILL: Create or save 2 million jobs. Rebuild our infrastructure across the country. Support the hard-hit construction industry. 50% of our nation’s roads are in disrepair 70,000 bridges are structurally deficient overall unemployment is at a chilling 8.2% construction industry unemployment is much worse at 14.2% Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
06.14.2012	“With America’s Army standing up for our country’s freedom all over the world, it is only appropriate that we take time out today to honor all of those serving and to let them know how much they are appreciated,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver. “Our Army is the best in the world and they show their talent, character and commitment each and every day.” From defending our security at home and abroad to offering rescue and recovery services in the wake of disaster – the United States Army is the gold standard when it comes to training, technique and talent. For longer than two centuries they have led the way throughout the world. More than a million strong, Army forces are currently engaged on 6 of the 7 continents. “We thank all of the soldiers, the civilians and family members who are leading the way to keep the United States safe and strong,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Happy Birthday can never cover all of the gratitude and appreciation I have for the Army, but it is a sentiment that is truly heartfelt.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
06.14.2012	Kansas City – Congressman Cleaver today joined Posty Cards of Kansas City, as well as other project partners and community leaders, to celebrate the company’s groundbreaking honor of receiving LEED Platinum certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. This certification makes Posty Cards the first Platinum industrial building in the state – and one of only seven nationwide. Posty is by far the smallest company with this distinction. “Already a leader in the industry of business-to-business greeting cards, now Posty is leading the way again,” said U.S. Representative Cleaver. “With the expansion and renovation of their building, right here in Kansas City’s urban core, this small company is saying big things with this certification. For one, that being environmentally conscious is not only possible – but preferred.” Posty was able to get funding from the Federal government in the form of rebates, incentives and tax credits. Congressman Cleaver told the crowd of close to a hundred today that it highlights what a positive role government can play in helping to create and sustain jobs, assist small business and continue economic growth. Posty’s expansion and renovation was necessary because the business was running out of space. Posty Cards President, Erick Jessee, told the crowd the vision for a green building came with the realization that the expansion would allow the company to bring the entire operation in line with their sustainability goals. LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) gives building owners a guide for measurable green building design, construction, operations and maintenance solutions. Posty is a family-owned business, operating for many decades in Kansas City. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
06.01.2012	Kansas City – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, today urged Members of Congress to immediately make more money available to fight floods and finish repairs in Missouri’s Fifth District. “My constituents, as well as many thousands of others living along the Missouri River, experienced a flood of historic proportions and catastrophic damages last year,” said Congressman Cleaver. “And still today, they are dealing with delays, waiting for repairs, and living in fear of future flooding. Enough is enough. Let’s get them the help they need – now.” Total repair costs from the flood are estimated to reach $2 billion. Raging flood waters breached levees, damaged farmland and devastated homes, farms and businesses. This amendment cuts through the red tape of waiting on supplemental appropriations from Congress and transfers funding from other accounts. The amendment offered by the Congressman, which passed with a voice vote, increases flood assistance by $3M and decreases funding elsewhere to make more dollars available in the Corps’ Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies Account. The amendment is to the Energy and Water Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2013. “People of Missouri’s Fifth District are tired of waiting and they shouldn’t have to wait any longer,” said Congressman Cleaver. “We all know that emergencies will continue to occur and it is incumbent upon us to give those responding to these catastrophic events the tools they need to get the job done – and done now.” If you’d like to see the Congressman’s speech, it is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
05.17.2012	Recently, the Postal Service announced it will not close any of the 167 post offices in Missouri that were being considered for closure or consolidation, nor will it close the more than 3,700 post offices nationwide as part of USPS’ Expanded Access study. The plan would keep the existing Post Office in place, but with modified retail window hours to match customer use. Access to the retail lobby and to PO Boxes would remain unchanged, and the town’s ZIP Code and community identity would be retained. The new strategy would be implemented over a two-year, multi-phased approach and would not be completed until September 2014. “This announcement is good news for all communities in Missouri and in the Fifth District. This compromise will save money while ensuring universal service for all. But even with this announcement, there is more work to be done,” said Congressman Cleaver. Action on postal reform is long overdue. The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) ended the fiscal year with a $5.1 billion loss. Earlier this fall, the Postal Service announced its plan to eliminate its current overnight delivery standard, and replace it with a 2-3 day delivery standard. Using this model, mail service would be reduced from six to five days, giving away a key competitive advantage of the USPS. Last month, by a bipartisan vote, the Senate passed S. 1789, the 21st Century Postal Service Act of 2012. The Senate bill included a provision to protect Missouri’s rural post offices with a one-year moratorium on closures, and stronger rules to make sure the Postal Service serves all of its customers across the country. There are many competing House proposals to reform the Postal Service. While far from perfect, S. 1789 has bipartisan support and will strengthen the USPS for generations to come. Congressman Cleaver has joined with many of his colleagues in respectfully urging the Republican Leadership to bring this bill to a vote in the House as soon as possible. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
05.04.2012	Kansas City, MO (May 4, 2012) – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D –MO) and other Kansas City, MO officials today announced that the Kansas City Police Department (KCPD) will be implementing the ShotSpotter Flex℠ gunshot location, alert and analysis solution. This is an effort to support Kansas City’s proactive policing strategies and deployments, in its ongoing commitment to improve the safety, security and quality of life for its residents by ridding the city of gun crime and gun violence. The Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA), was the lead agency in the planning and procurement of the ShotSpotter service for the KCPD. ShotSpotter Flex is developed by SST, Inc., the world leader in wide-area acoustic surveillance and gunfire detection technology. “Securing the funding to make this possible for Kansas City has been a long-term effort and a long time coming,” said Congressman Cleaver, II. “I am thrilled the day has finally arrived. My hope is this technology will help our excellent police officers get to victims more quickly, catch criminals more readily, and make our entire city a safer place to live.” The gunfire data and intelligence provided by ShotSpotter Flex will be critical in supporting KCPD’s policing and enforcement efforts across all areas of their operations. Not only does it enable the KCPD to respond faster and more safely to gunfire incidents, but the solution also allows officers to proactively develop effective problem-oriented, data-drive policing strategies and tactical deployments. “Speeches do not stop crime. Politicians do not stop crime. Determined and effective policing and prosecution, paired with the right tools, stop crime. Citizens standing up and saying, 'not in my neighborhood' stop crime. Today, criminals are looking at a united front,” said Mayor Sly James. “The Department of Justice, our Congressman, our Chief, our Council, the Prosecutor, and every citizen on every block in our city are saying 'enough.' If you fire a gun in Kansas City, we will know and we will hunt you down. My thanks to Congressman Cleaver for finding the dollars to equip Chief Forte with a cutting edge tool that will make Kansas City safer." Once implemented, KCPD will also be able to gather more detailed gunfire incident information and forensic evidence for investigations and analysis, resulting in increased prosecutions for gun-related crime, and the data will enhance crime analysis and predictive policing capabilities, leading to improved public safety and security. “Congressman Cleaver is the catalyst for bringing this technology to Kansas City,” said KCPD Chief Darryl Forte. “He identified a federal funding source, got those funds for ShotSpotter and was responsible for bringing KCATA and KCPD together. We would still be wishing for a system instead of preparing for installation of a system had he not taken the lead to bring this technology to Kansas City.” KCPD is undertaking a comprehensive approach to resolving crime issues, and has collaborated with various entities including the KCATA, City of Kansas City, community organizations and supporters, all working together to reduce gun violence and combat its negative impact to the community. KCPD is partnering with SST to deploy the technology in areas with high incidents of gunfire. “We are honored to begin working with Chief Forte, the Kansas City Police Department and the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority to improve community safety, and having the support of federal, state and local officials is critical to our success in helping combat gun violence effectively.” said Ralph A. Clark, President and CEO of SST. “Our work enables cities and communities to create comprehensive gun violence reduction programs, and technology and data are critical components. We are committed to providing the Kansas City Police Department the critical information and expertise needed to combat gun crime.” ShotSpotter Flex supports the development of effective intelligence-led policing strategies and tactical operations using real-time, actionable data and intelligence. ShotSpotter Flex will be delivered to KCPD in a hosted, subscription-based service making it more affordable, more easily deployed, and delivered without the extensive up-front costs, IT resources and expenses of a traditional technology acquisition. “This is a true partnership of people acting together to bring cutting edge technology to the fight against violent crime,” said Board of Police Commissioners President Pat McInerney. “It shows how important the fight is to Congressman Cleaver, the Mayor, city officials, the police department and ATA, who, with unique vision, found a way to serve and protect our citizens in the City’s core.” ShotSpotter’s use in Kansas City is possible because of a partnership between KCATA and the Kansas City Police Department. “We believe this is the first deployment in the country of ShotSpotter through this type of partnership,” said Mark Huffer, General Manager of the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority. “We are pleased to partner with the City of Kansas City and the KCPD to play a role in elevating the level of safety to the community, as well as to our customers and employees.” The solution also includes SST’s Reviewed Alerts Service which provides immediate review and qualification of all gunfire incidents by gunshot and acoustic experts. Among the key benefits delivered by ShotSpotter are: · Instant, Accurate Situational Awareness – Precise gunfire incident information enables informed decisions for faster emergency response while also improving situational intelligence and increasing first responder safety. · Enhanced Forensics Analysis & Crime Analysis– Detailed forensic data and intelligence improves the investigative process leading to more thorough investigations and enhanced prosecutions for gun-related crime. · Incident Expert Qualification – A highly trained team of gunfire acoustic experts at the SST Operations Center review and qualify all incidents immediately and pass valuable, actionable gunfire incident data to 9-1-1 dispatch centers and mobile police units enabling accurate and reliable data. · Long-Term Crime Deterrence – Awareness of all gunfire incidents and cumulative data enables proactive crime analysis and strategic deterrence. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
05.02.2012	“Open House” Event for new Energy-Star Rated Raytown Homes built with Neighborhood Stabilization Program set for 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. on Wednesday, May 2nd, 2012 The City of Raytown and Builders Development Corporation (BDC) will be welcoming United States Congressman Emanuel Cleaver and officials from the State of Missouri for a ribbon cutting ceremony for two new homes that have been constructed at 5420 and 5424 Laurel Avenue. The ribbon cutting ceremony and open house event will be held from 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. on Wednesday, May 2nd, 2012 at 5420 & 5420 Laurel Avenue, Raytown. The lots previously contained two vacant, dilapidated homes that had been on the City’s dangerous building list. The new homes were constructed by Builders Development Corporation (BDC) and funding was provided through a Neighborhood Stabilization Program 3 (NSP3) grant the City of Raytown received in 2011 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. There are no local funds required by the City to participate in the program. This event showcases the first new homes to be built by the BDC in Raytown, and the first new homes built in Raytown in the past three years. The BDC is a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) community development corporation working towards rebuilding communities in the greater Kansas City metropolitan area. The BDC recently received a U.S. Housing and Urban Development Best Practice Award for its commitment to energy-efficient and affordable homes. Using the NSP grant funding Builders Development Corporation purchases vacant and foreclosed properties to renovate or reconstruct the homes on the properties and then sells the homes to qualified families. The program is part of the American Recovery & Reinvestment Act (ARRA) also known as the Recovery Act enacted to create jobs and promote investment and consumer spending during the recession. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II – Missouri’s Fifth District, said: “The tireless work to create and keep jobs must remain our primary focus. Now, where there was once blight there is hope, dilapidated homes have become beautiful new energy efficient homes, and will stand as a symbol of economic growth. I applaud the hundreds of people who have put in thousands of hours to demolish decay and build long-term solutions to bringing neighborhoods back to life.” Raytown Mayor David Bower stated, “The city of Raytown is extremely pleased with the Neighborhood Stabilization Program as it has transformed this block and neighborhood. 5420 and 5424 Laurel were two homes that were very dilapidated and now they showcase our newest and most energy efficient homes. They are a source of pride, representing reinvestment in our existing neighborhoods with an eye toward energy efficiency and long term livability.” “We are very pleased to be able to assist the city of Raytown and the Builders Development Corporation in improving neighborhoods and providing quality, affordable housing,” said Andy Papen, Program Manager State of Missouri Department of Economic Development. BDC Board President Tom Woods stated, “The BDC prides itself not only on hiring quality, local contractors, but in providing a quality home that is as energy-efficient as feasibly possible to ensure livability over the next several decades.” Utilizing the NSP3 funding the BDC is also constructing a new house at 5428 Sterling in Raytown and is currently identifying additional older, foreclosed properties to acquire/reconstruct in Raytown. Other opportunities for neighborhood residents, and other interested persons, to tour the home(s) at 5420 and 5424 Laurel Avenue will take place on Saturday, May 5th and Sunday, May 6th.
04.27.2012	Yesterday, the U.S. Department of Labor announced the withdrawal of a proposed rule dealing with children who work in agricultural vocations, saying, “The decision to withdraw this rule – including provisions to define the ‘parental exemption’ – was made in response to thousands of comments expressing concerns about the effect of the proposed rules on small family-owned farms.” The full release by the DOL is available here. “Over the past few months, I have met with countless farmers, ranchers, and families who raised concerns about the impact this proposed regulation would have on their livelihoods and experiences. After listening to many residents, I expressed these concerns to the Department of Labor and to the Administration.” said Congressman Cleaver. “I am pleased to see that they listened to us. It was the right choice to withdraw this rule, and it is time to focus more on working with, not against, folks on the ground. I will continue to fight for the right of farmers and ranchers to make critical decisions about running their businesses, with a focus on protecting educational programs, animal and equipment exemptions, and a policy that allows and inspires the younger generations to benefit from the experiences of their parents and grandparents.” Previously, Congressman Cleaver submitted a letter in regard to these proposed regulations to the House Small Business Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade. The text of the letter is available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
04.25.2012	Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, in conjunction with the National Endowment for the Arts, announced a series of matching and partnership grants. $25 million dollars, $4 million of which is in arts education projects, will be awarded in matching grants, and a whopping $48.5 million will be awarded in matching partnership grant awards. These funds help support projects ranging from commissions, residencies, rehearsals, workshops, performances, exhibitions, publications, festivals, to training programs and literature fellowships. Grants from the National Endowment for the Arts generate, on average, eight dollars from non-federal sources for each dollar awarded. Studies have shown that the more arts experience our innovators, scientists, and inventors have, the more likely they will be to generate creative capital of clear economic value. "When we invest in the arts, we reap rewards in every sphere. In our area, I am pleased to announce many winners," said Congressman Cleaver. “This funding will help ensure the accessibility of the arts to many who might otherwise not be able to enjoy the thriving cultural life they offer. Strengthening this critical area is something we all benefit from in the form of education, cognitive development and inspiration.” The Mid-America Arts Alliance received $1, 131, 000 in funding to support arts partnership activities. Partnerships grants are awarded to the states, and allow a state art agency to match the federal partnership grant with state appropriated dollars, helping the entire state. The American Jazz Museum will received $16, 000 in funding to support the Rhythm & Ribs Jazz and Blues Festival. The Metropolitan Arts Council of Greater KC and its local arts agencies will receive $40, 000 to support Catalyst Project Grants. The Nelson Gallery Foundation will receive $100, 000 to support the digitization of the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art's photography collection. UMKC Arts Education will receive $65, 000 to support Conservatory in the Schools. The National Endowment for the Arts was established by Congress in 1965 as an independent agency of the federal government. To date, the NEA has awarded more than $4 billion to support artistic excellence, creativity, and innovation for the benefit of individuals and communities. The NEA extends its work through partnerships with state arts agencies, local leaders, other federal agencies, and the philanthropic sector. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
04.05.2012	Congressman Cleaver, along with U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric K. Shinseki announced today that HUD will provide $72.6 million to public housing agencies in all 50 states and the District of Columbia to supply permanent housing and case management for more than 10,000 homeless veterans. In Missouri’s Fifth District, the Kansas City Housing Authority will receive $290,042 for fifty vouchers to assist veterans. “Americans owe our veterans and their families immeasurable and infinite thanks for their service to our country,” said Congressman Cleaver. “We can never repay them for their sacrifice, but we can start by making sure they have a roof over their heads, protecting their health and well-being, and making sure they have access to good, well-paying jobs. The assistance from HUD is one much-needed step forward, and these vouchers will be put to good use.” VAMCs work closely with homeless veterans then refer them to public housing agencies for these vouchers, based upon a variety of factors, most importantly the duration of the homelessness and the need for longer term more intensive support to obtain and maintain permanent housing. The HUD-VASH program includes both the rental assistance the voucher provides and the comprehensive case management that VAMC staff provides. The permanent supportive housing assistance announced today is provided through HUD’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program (HUD-VASH), a program administered by HUD, VA, and local housing agencies to provide permanent housing with case management and other supportive services for homeless veterans across the country. Read a complete local breakdown of the rental vouchers announced today. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
03.29.2012	The Kansas City Missouri Health Department received $2,480,000 in U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funding. HUD awarded a total of $110.8 million in grants to 43 local projects, including in Kansas City, Missouri, to conduct a wide range of activities intended to protect children and families from potentially dangerous lead-based paint and other home health and safety hazards. “Lead-based paint may have been banned long before most of today’s children were born, but millions of homes around the country still have alarming amounts of lead-based paint hazards,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “Lead can lead to a host of health problems in young children, damaging their minds, their health, and their well-being. The children of Missouri’s Fifth District deserve better, and the Kansas City Missouri Health Department will use this money to make that possible.” Through these grant programs, HUD’s Office of Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard Control promotes local efforts to eliminate dangerous lead hazards from lower income homes; stimulates private sector investment in lead hazard control; and educates the public about the dangers of lead-based paint. A complete project-by-project summary of the programs awarded grants today can be found on HUD's website. More Information on Lead Hazard Control Grant Programs Even though lead-based paint was banned for residential use in 1978, HUD estimates that approximately 24 million homes still have significant lead-based paint hazards today. Lead-contaminated dust is the primary cause of lead exposure and can lead to a variety of health problems in young children, including reduced IQ, learning disabilities, developmental delays, reduced height, and impaired hearing. At higher levels, lead can damage a child's kidneys and central nervous system and cause anemia, coma, convulsions and even death. The funding announced today directs critical funds to cities, counties and states to eliminate dangerous lead paint hazards in thousands of privately-owned, low-income housing units. These funds are provided through HUD’s Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control and Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration grant programs. To expand the reach of HUD’s Lead Hazard Control Program. HUD is also providing over $5.3 million to help communities transform their lead hazard control programs to address multiple housing-related hazards. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
02.09.2012	“Students should be encouraged to vote, not misled, confused, or outright barred from voting,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. Today Congressman Cleaver introduced the EASY (Equal Access to Support Youth) Voting Act. HR 3978 will allow a student to vote in a federal election using their current student photo identification. It will also make it a federal crime for any individual to purposely discourage a student from voting by providing false or misleading information. “While the integrity of our political process must be beyond reproach, we must at the same time, strive to protect the right to vote for all eligible citizens. I want students to have access to the electorate and be able to easily exercise their civic duty and make their voices heard.” 11% of Americans do not have current government issued photo identification. That number jumps to 18% for those between the ages of 18-24. In the last year, dozens of new voting restrictions have been proposed by states throughout the country that would make it harder for Americans to register to vote and to cast a ballot. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
01.24.2012	“I am honored to have Sister Berta Sailer as my guest to the State of the Union address. For decades she has worked each and every day to make life better for thousands of Kansas City’s poorest children regardless of race, religion or politics. She is a true champion for others and an example of seeking our better selves,” said Congressman Cleaver. More information about Operation Breakthrough can be found here. Sisters Berta Sailer and Corita Bussanmas started what is now Operation Breakthrough 40 years ago by taking the babies of the working poor into their own living room at a convent in Kansas City. At the time, they were running a K-8 school, as well, and after it ceased to be a Catholic school, the nuns folded the childcare operation and the school into one nonprofit entity – Operation Breakthrough – and ran it all without any major financial support. They kept this fledgling nonprofit going by the sheer force of their will and their firm belief that African-American, inner-city children deserved a good education. They kept it going by teaching all day and by sweeping classrooms, cooking school lunches and doing paperwork late into the night - and all weekend, too. They kept it going by amazing ingenuity, managing to persevere many a day without any cash on hand, inspiring people to help them with their dogged devotion to families in need. They found teachers who would work for $25 a month, plus room and board in the convent. When they needed a lawyer, an accountant, a guy with a jackhammer – they drew people to them, who offered their services, free. They have – through enthusiastic collaboration, successful fundraising, careful spending and skillful recruiting – built Operation Breakthrough into a $7 million agency, serving more than 500 children each day, with a professional staff of more than 150 people. In addition to Operation Breakthrough’s core mission of providing childcare and early childhood education for the infants, toddlers and preschoolers of the working-poor, the center offers before and after school programming for children from 6 to 16, on-site medical and dental care, mental health services, speech and occupational therapy and family supports, including case management, parenting programs, a food pantry and a clothing closet. Many have been known to refer to Sisters Berta and Corita as “the Mother Teresas of Kansas City.” There are families on every block in Kansas City’s urban core who say these nuns are the people they run to when someone loses everything in a house fire, when a newborn comes home from the hospital with nothing but the diaper he’s wearing, when a young person needs a job, a bus pass to get to school, a second chance, a kind word or a good scolding. Sisters Berta and Corita and their staff have impacted three generations of Kansas City families, providing them with food, clothing, housing, education, guidance and hope. In short, they have created in Operation Breakthrough a nonprofit organization that forms a foundation under the most vulnerable people in Kansas City and gives them the means and inspiration to be all that they can be. And that’s only what Sister Berta and Sister Corita accomplish at work. At home, they are full-time parents, though both are in their 70s. More than 15 years ago, incensed at the way the foster care system ravaged the lives of children at Operation Breakthrough, the sisters became licensed foster parents themselves, hoping to make a difference. Since then, they have opened their home to more than 60 children, some of whom have never left. The sisters have jointly adopted four children: Kenyauta, 17; Ronald, 17; Tyrez, 11; and Vanshay, 9 – all of whom have been with them since they were babies. Joining these four is an ever-changing group of other children – a teen whose family has been homeless, siblings who may not eat on weekends if they are not at the nuns’ house, children who need to feel loved and secure. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
01.24.2012	In the spirit of civility, Congresswoman Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) will sit together during the State of the Union. Capito and Cleaver cofounded the Congressional Civility Caucus in 2005. “In an increasingly caustic Congressional climate, we have to begin to be our better selves before we ask more of others. Our nation needs a Congress that can and will work together on the problems facing us all. In our work as co-chairs of the Civility Caucus, Congresswoman Capito and I have gone from fellow Members to fond friends, and I hope soon other Members can say the same,” stated Congressman Cleaver. “We know that we’ll probably have very different views about what the President proposes in his address, but that doesn’t mean we can’t show some civility and respect. This country deserves a civil, productive conversation about how we can get our economy back on track,” stated Congresswoman Capito. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
11.16.2011	Just minutes ago the House of Representatives approved critical legislation that will help small businesses and our nation’s veterans. The House passed the Senate Amendment to H.R. 674. H.R. 674, among other things, will repeal the imposition of a 3% withholding on small businesses. That withholding would be on certain payments made to government entities. Congressman Cleaver is a cosponsor of this bill. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy,” said U.S. Congressman Cleaver. “To allow this withholding to go into effect would be grossly unfair. This tax would be taking money out of the hands of the very people who are creating jobs in this economy.” The Senate added provisions to spur the hiring of veterans included in the President’s American Jobs Act, along with provisions from the Bishop/Murray Hiring Heroes Act (H.R.1941) and the VOW Act (H.R.2433). “We have brave men and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan who can’t find jobs,” said Congressman Cleaver. “They have sacrificed for us and we must do right by them." Included in the amendment are tax credits for businesses hiring veterans, expanded education and training opportunities for veterans as well as increased benefits for disabled veterans. The legislation has already passed the Senate and the President is expected to sign it. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
11.09.2011	River flooding and drought have wreaked havoc on farmers in the Midwest, leaving many facing financial disaster. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, is working to make sure lawmakers find ways to provide fast and fair aid in the event of natural disasters, continue efforts in conservation and keep agricultural research as a priority. Congressman Cleaver is pleased to announce the visit of U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to Odessa this Thursday, November 10th. They will be in a roundtable discussion with area farmers to listen to issues, opinions and concerns. The Congressman and Secretary Vilsack will be available for media interviews following the meeting. WHAT: U.S. SECRETARY TOM VILSACK JOINS CONGRESSMAN CLEAVER WHERE: ODESSA COMMUNITY BUILDING – 601 W. Main Street WHEN: 8:45 – ODESSA MAYOR JUSTIN MURRY GREETS MOTORCADE 9:00-10:00 – CLOSED ROUNDTABLE 10:00-10:30 – MEDIA AVAILABILITY Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
11.02.2011	“Obviously we are a Nation Under God. It has been our national motto since 1956, and as a minister, I needed no reminding. It is my personal motto as well,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “My vote on H.Con.Res. 13, a non-binding resolution that carries no force of law, was a stand on principle. This resolution was brought to the Floor at a time when our nation’s economy is in deep peril and our constituents are depending on us to create jobs – not reaffirm mottos. We need to be working for the people in our districts, in our states and in our country on real legislation that can help put them back to work right now, help keep them in their homes right now, and help them feed their children right now. And yes – In God We Trust – and In God I Trust.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
11.01.2011	“I am happy to see federal dollars coming home to help our local company and our local economy,” said U.S. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “The funding announced today by the USDA will help toward creating jobs and expanding the production of advanced biofuels as our nation works to reduce its dependence on foreign oil.” Paseo Cargill Energy, LLC, a Kansas City company, will receive $1,606,558.14 for Biodiesel Trans Esterification. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced the payments today for 156 advanced biofuel producers, saying it will help local producers increase the production and availability of renewable energy and further develop the nation’s growing biofuels industry, generate green jobs and economic growth. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.22.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, II announced this week he is joining a bipartisan group of ten colleagues from Missouri and Kansas to serve on a five state congressional working group that will provide lower basin river communities a united voice when it comes to management of the Missouri River. Cleaver welcomed the chance to work with fellow Missouri U.S. Reps. Blaine Luetkemeyer, Jo Ann Emerson, Todd Akin, Lacy Clay, Sam Graves, Russ Carnahan, Vicky Hartzler and Billy Long, along with Kansas U.S. Reps. Lynn Jenkins and Kevin Yoder, who have agreed to serve on the panel created by U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem of South Dakota. "I look forward to serving with my colleagues and neighbors to protect communities alongside the Missouri River," Cleaver said. "We have to come together to work toward a better, fairer solution, that places the safety and livelihood of those who live and work along the river as paramount." Following are comments from some of those joining Cleaver on the working group: Rep. Lacy Clay (MO-1): “I welcome this bipartisan effort to ensure maximum flood control and navigation while still preserving and protecting unique wetlands and sensitive habitats.” Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (MO-8): “Missouri River issues are bigger than one community, one county, one congressional district, or even one state. I am very glad to be part of a working group which recognizes the challenges of flood protection and the importance of lives and livelihoods along the Missouri River.” Rep. Todd Akin (MO-2): “I look forward to serving alongside my colleagues within this working group because I believe that the interests of Missouri citizens must be protected. I hope this working group will be productive, but I will continue to strongly advocate for the interests of those along the lower Missouri River.” Rep. Russ Carnahan (MO-3): “I’m honored to work alongside my colleagues to fight for communities in the Missouri River Basin. In the wake of severe storms this spring and summer, we need to work together to make sure we are prepared for future flooding emergencies to protect families and businesses.” Rep. Vicky Hartzler (MO-4): “I look forward to working with other representatives of the people to ensure that management of the Missouri River gives priority status to flood control, navigation, and agriculture concerns.” Rep. Sam Graves, (MO-6): “My district has seen first-hand the need for a new plan for the Missouri River. It’s my hope that this working group can put regional interests aside and find common ground. Many of my constituents are suffering through a severe and prolonged flood caused by our current management plan. Their voices must be heard in the discussion of any new plan.” Rep. Billy Long (MO-7): “The Missouri River is an important economic link that affects all of Missouri, not just the parts of the state that it runs through. I look forward to working with my fellow Midwesterners to find a solution that will better reflect the needs of both the upper and lower basins.” Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-9): “I am looking forward to working with members from throughout the Missouri River basin to represent the opinions of and fight for the needs of individuals living in the lower basin. While the upper and lower basins have historically had different management philosophies, we must try to work together to ensure that the best policies affecting the Missouri River are put into place. At the same time, we intend to continue the fight to ensure that those living in the lower basin have the best available flood control technology, appropriate and fair access to water, and the ability to move their agricultural and manufactured goods to domestic and international markets.” Rep. Lynn Jenkins (KS-2): “While Mother Nature and historic snowmelt are undoubtedly at work, the current flooding along the Missouri River Basin is also a direct result of the water management strategies implemented in this region. I look forward to working with my colleagues from Kansas and Missouri to speak out about the true impact of these flood waters and the importance of updating our river management strategies to prevent future devastating floods.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.08.2011	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is proud to announce that the Senate has confirmed Chief Alfred C. Lomax of Kansas City to be the next U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Missouri. Congressman Cleaver, who has known Chief Lomax since he was Mayor of Kansas City, first recommended him to President Obama, who nominated him on March 2, 2011. “I am pleased to nominate these outstanding public servants to serve as U.S. Marshals,” said President Obama. “Throughout their careers, these individuals have demonstrated an unwavering commitment to justice, and I am grateful for their continued willingness to serve and protect the American people.” Upon Chief Lomax’s confirmation on June 30, 2011, Congressman Cleaver said, “I know Al will bring to the U.S. Marshal’s office the same integrity and professionalism that has become his trademark over his thirty years of public service. It was my honor to recommend him to the President, and I am pleased to see that my colleagues in the Senate agreed.” Chief Lomax joined the Kansas City Police Department in 1963, and later served as the Deputy Chief of the Investigation Bureau of the Kansas City Police Department, a position from which he retired in 1992. He then became the head of Airport Police at Kansas City International Airport. Chief Lomax will be sworn in as U.S. Marshal on Wednesday, July 13, 2011, In Washington, D.C. The U.S. Marshals Service is the nation’s oldest and most versatile federal law enforcement agency. Federal Marshals have served the country since 1789. To this day, the Marshals Service occupies a uniquely central position in the federal justice system. It is the enforcement arm of the federal courts, and as such, it is involved in virtually every federal law enforcement initiative. Presidentially appointed, U.S. Marshals direct the activities of 94 districts — one for each federal judicial district including Missouri’s Western District. More than 3,953 Deputy U.S. Marshals and criminal investigators form the backbone of the agency. Among their many duties, they apprehend federal fugitives, protect the federal judiciary, operate the Witness Security Program, transport federal prisoners and seize property acquired by criminals through illegal activities. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.01.2011	Today, local leaders will announce a $4.3 million Front Street improvement project, which will create Kansas City’s greenest roadway, including LED street lighting, sustainable storm-water infrastructure, and a designated bicycle trail that connects to the Riverfront Heritage Trail. It will greatly contributes to Kansas City’s Downtown Riverfront Redevelopment. “I am proud to join Kansas City Mayor Sly James, First District Councilman Scott Wagner, Port Authority of Kansas City President Michael Collins, and Kansas City Parks and Recreation Director Mark McHenry here today,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “As the major east-west connection into and through Kansas City’s Northeast Industrial District (NEID), all of us are familiar with Front Street. And all of us are familiar with the traffic, the trucks, and the congestion that come with it. With the announcement of $4.3 million dollars in investment, Front Street is about to become more environmentally friendly, more pedestrian friendly, and more sustainable. I am proud to have helped secure Federal funding to make Front Street the greenest road in the region.” This project is funded in part with ARRA/EECBG funds from the US Department of Transportation and by the City of Kansas City. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
06.28.2011	Kansas City, Mo.-- Congressman Emanuel Cleaver will join Families USA in highlighting how cuts to Medicaid would hurt not just low-income and middle-class families, children, seniors, and people with disabilities, but also the entire economy of Missouri. The Medicaid cuts in the House Republican budget, if implemented today, would have a devastating impact on the struggling economy of Missouri. These cuts would put as many as 35,210 jobs and as much as $4.2 billion in state business activity at risk. That’s the conclusion of a report for Missouri released today by the national health care consumer organization Families USA. "In recent memory, I have often heard it said that we must cut the budget in order to get our economy back on track" said Congressman Cleaver. "While I could not agree more that we as a nation must learn to live within our means, this report is a call to caution. The least of these should not bear the burden for a problem they did not produce. The cuts called for in Congress have a real, painful impact in our communities. Worse, the cuts will hinder our economic recovery." The budget proposal adopted by the U.S. House of Representatives, sponsored by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), calls for cuts in federal funding to current state Medicaid programs of 5 percent in 2013, 15 percent in 2014, and 33 percent in 2021. The report “Jobs at Risk” looks at the economic impact of a 5 percent, 15 percent and 33 percent cut in current Medicaid funding levels. Implementing a 5 percent cut in Medicaid spending in 2011 would: · Cost Missouri almost $290.7 million in federal Medicaid dollars, and put at risk approximately $633.7 million in business activity and 5,330 jobs; · Cost Missouri and the remaining 49 states and the District of Columbia the $13.75 billion needed to support health care for vulnerable residents, including funding for nursing home care and other long-term care services for seniors and people with disabilities. A 15 percent cut in federal Medicaid spending in 2011 would have a greater impact and would: · Cost Missouri nearly 872.1 million in federal Medicaid dollars, and put at risk approximately $1.9 billion in business activity and 16,000 jobs; · Cost Missouri and the remaining 49 states and the District of Columbia the $41.25 billion needed to support health care for vulnerable residents. A 33 percent cut in federal Medicaid spending in 2011 would: · Cost Missouri more than $1.9 billion in federal Medicaid dollars, and put at risk approximately $4.2 billion in business activity and 35,210 jobs; · Cost Missouri and the remaining 49 states and the District of Columbia the almost $90.8 billion needed to support health care for vulnerable residents. “Jobs at Risk” data for all 50 states and the District of Columbia are available here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
05.20.2011	Yesterday, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) released its grant guidance for the Homeland Security Grant Program (HSGP) which funds a range of preparedness activities, including planning, organization, equipment purchase, training, exercises, and management and administration. Due to cuts approved in the FY11 budget, DHS has been forced to reduce the list of communities eligible for Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) program funding by half, and the Kansas City metropolitan area did not make the list. Congressman Cleaver strongly opposed the final FY11 budget package, which cut UASI by $162 million (from $887 million to $725 million). “As a former member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, and as a long-standing supporter of the Fifth District’s efforts to address homeland security risks and preparedness, I must say I am extremely disappointed with and concerned with the decision to remove Kansas City from the UASI program. The budget compromise, which I did not support, cut $162 million from the Department of Homeland Security, and now we are feeling the effects. The timing could not be worse. Not only are we in the midst of the 2011 FEMA National Level Exercise (NLE), which is based on a major earthquake in Missouri, along the New Madrid fault, this is National Police Week, during which many communities will honor officers who lost their lives in the line of duty. “This is a terrible time to withdraw support for our ability to train and equip police, firefighters, and other first responders and otherwise maintain the highest level of security. As I have said time and time again, the budget is a moral document, a testament to our priorities. If the safety of our communities is not a priority, I don’t know what is.” The Kansas City Metropolitan area stands to lose over $7 million in security funding. In a call to DHS officials, Congressman Cleaver urged his opposition to the cuts, and asked that Kansas City, Missouri, be included in UASI eligibility. In addition to the FY11 cuts most recently announced, the FY12 appropriations bill for homeland security eliminates important funding for state and local efforts, including Kansas City as part of the UASI program. The legislation proposes only $1 billion dollars for DHS Grants, Exercises, and Technical Assistance important to States, local governments and public safety agencies. This is a decrease of $1.2 billion compared to the current year, and the legislation also proposes major reductions in DHS’ Fire Grants ($350 million), FEMA Flood Mapping ($120 million), and PreDisaster Mitigation Grants ($40 million). Additionally, the legislation proposes a major consolidation of programs important to States, local governments and public safety agencies. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
05.13.2011	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement following yesterday’s meeting of the Congressional Black Caucus with President Obama: “Yesterday, the Congressional Black Caucus, of which I am proud to Chair, met with President Obama. “It is always an honor to meet with the President. At the same time, it is a challenge to convey the concerns that deserve the most attention. For that task, I turned to my constituents. “On Wednesday via Facebook I asked, ‘What questions would you ask President Obama? Tomorrow, I will meet with the President as Chair of the CBC. I want to be your voice.’ “The questions shared ranged from concerns about immigration, education, our military presence in the Middle East, trade, taxes, and finally to gas prices, as well as many more important issues. The most popular topic, however, was jobs. “While the overall trajectory of the economy has improved dramatically over the past two years, our national unemployment rate is at 9.0%. For the Kansas City metropolitan area, the unemployment rate was at 8.9% as of March 2011. I know President Obama understands the urgency of our unemployment situation, and I am satisfied that he has his utmost attention toward the situation. That said, I cannot be satisfied when the poor and the vulnerable are hurting, and when some of my colleagues want to balance our federal budget on the backs of the least of these. “In yesterday’s conversation, we exchanged creative ideas on how best to create jobs and improve our economy. It is a pleasure to represent the constituents of the Fifth District of Missouri in these conversations with the President.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
05.09.2011	The City of Kansas City, Missouri announced today that it has been selected to collaborate with Google on the deployment of Google’s ultra high-speed broadband network. This network will deliver Internet speeds of up to 1 gigabit (or 1,000 megabits) per second—100 times faster than what most people have access to today. As the second city to be selected for this initiative, Kansas City, Missouri joins Kansas City, Kansas, in a regional partnership that will help ensure our communities’ shared success. “I congratulate Mayor Sly James, the city government, and Kansas City Power & Light (KCP&L) – the first investor-owned utility take on this kind of effort – on this incredibly impressive initiative, which will allow new technology, innovation, and economic development to flourish in Kansas City, Missouri. Mayor James and the new council, in less than a month, have been able to bring Google to Kansas City. So we are expecting an NBA team next week.” This project attracted the attention of nearly 1,100 communities across the country. The city’s application was a collaborative effort, involving a variety of community stakeholders including the City of Kansas City, KCP&L, KCADC, KCNext, the Kauffman Foundation, Economic Development Corporation of Kansas City, Kansas City Missouri School District, Brush Creek Community Partners, the Greater Kansas City Chamber of Commerce, the Black Economic Union and the Mid-America Regional Council. In the end, Google selected Kansas City, on both sides of the river, as a place where they could build efficiently, make an impact on the community, and develop working partnerships with the local government, utility and community organizations. For more information about the Google Fiber for Communities initiative in Kansas City, please click here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
03.25.2011	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II was joined by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Deputy Secretary Ron Sims to announce two grants totaling $4.5 million for planning in the Green Impact Zone and surrounding communities. The grants, the first of their kind, address an issue raised by the Green Impact Zone to the administration; how can federal departments work together to address community problems and develop plans that cross jurisdictions and agency areas of responsibility? In answer to that question, the Mid-America Regional Council (MARC) was awarded a $4.25 million Sustainable Communities grant to study six development corridors connecting over 30 communities in the Metropolitan Area, with the Green Impact Zone at the center of the study. Representatives of all the participating cities were on hand for the announcement. Of the 48 Sustainable Communities grants announced across the nation, only five communities received more than MARC. The six corridors include: North Oak Trafficway in Clay County, Mo. U.S. 24/40 in Jackson County, Mo. Rock Island Railroad line (from downtown Kansas City, Mo., through Lee's Summit) Troost, Main and 71 Highway in south Kansas City, Mo. Shawnee Mission Parkway/Metcalf in Johnson County, Kan. State Avenue in Wyandotte County, Kan. "I am always happy to host Administration officials. I am especially pleased when they bring large checks. This award announcement is a statement. These are our first post-stimulus community and Green Impact Zone grants. The decisions we have made have put us in position as a region to continue to compete and win competitive federal grants. I am thrilled. The Administration is putting its money where its mouth is,” said Congressman Cleaver. The Sustainable Communities grants are part of the Obama Administration’s Partnership for Sustainable Communities, which brings HUD, the U.S. Department of Transportation, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency together to ensure that the agencies’ policies, programs, and funding consider affordable housing, transportation, and environmental protection together. This interagency collaboration gets better results for communities and uses taxpayer money more efficiently. Coordinating federal investments in infrastructure, facilities, and services meets multiple economic, environmental, and community objectives with each dollar spent. The second announcement of the day was a Choice Neighborhoods grant for $250,000 which will begin to transform the Chouteau Courts federal housing development on Independence Avenue in Northeast Kansas City. Chouteau Courts, one of Kansas City’s oldest public housing sites and is the last choice of housing for public housing residents. The grant to the Housing Authority of Kansas City will promote a comprehensive approach to transforming this distressed area of concentrated poverty into viable and sustainable mixed-income neighborhood. Building on the successes of HUD’s HOPE VI Program, and the Sustainable Communities grants also announced today, Choice Neighborhoods will link housing improvements with a wider variety of public services including schools, public transit and employment opportunities. Only 17 Choice Neighborhoods grants were awarded nationwide. The announcements were made at the Mid-America Regional Council office after the inaugural meeting of the Sustainable Communities Coordinating Committee. Both grants will work together to connect housing with good jobs, quality schools and transportation. More information about the Sustainable Communities grant can be found here. Photos of the event are available for download and use here. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
03.15.2011	On Monday, with snow on the ground, Congressman Cleaver joined city officials and children in Northeast Kansas City to dream of summer fun. The groundbreaking ceremony at the corner of Van Brunt and 9th Street signaled the beginning of site preparation for the new community center. The site will include two practice fields and one regulation competition soccer field. The proposed Northeast Community Center will provide much needed space for recreational, fitness and community outreach programs. The Northeast community is currently underserved in these areas. The Lykins Center was closed in 2004 and left a void for community recreation services and facilities in old Northeast. The site preparation was made possible when Congressman Cleaver secured $2.5 million in federal earmarks for the project. “I know ‘earmark’ is a bad word these days. And there are many who think that we shouldn’t spend tax dollars on projects like this. They are entitled to their opinions. I can tell you, this is exactly what we should be investing in. I will tell you these are fields that will keep kids out of trouble, give them skills both athletic and personal, and make this neighborhood better,” said Congressman Cleaver. Following the Congressman’s commitment to green and sustainable investments, the Parks Department acquired the brownfield site from Public Works at no cost. The site is served by public transit and will be ADA accessible. The new community center and surrounding site improvements will incorporate the latest sustainable and energy efficient measures. The building will be designed to achieve LEED Silver certification. “The part of this project I am most excited for is the construction of a regulation competition soccer pitch--just like the professionals use. Who knows how many professional soccer players will find their footing right here in the old Northeast neighborhood. This project and these fields are symbols. Many of the children who will play here are first generation Americans. With projects like this, we demonstrate our investment in them, in the hope that they will continue to thrive,” said Congressman Cleaver, “I can think of no better way to spend our tax dollars than on our children’s dreams.” The area is ethnically and culturally diverse. Nearly 35% of the population is 19 years old or younger. The citizen survey results testify to the public’s desire for fitness, aquatics and community activity spaces. The 12.4-acre site is large enough to accommodate a new community center, outdoor recreational areas for soccer, space for community gardens and a festival plaza. The proposed facility will be in the range of 50,000 square feet. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
03.11.2011	Congressman Cleaver is proud to announce that he and Congressman Ted Poe (TX-3) of Texas have introduced H.R. 938, which would establish a World War I Centennial Commission and dedicate the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri as the National World War I Memorial. The bipartisan agreement to introduce the bill is in tribute to Mr. Frank Buckles, the last American veteran of World War I, who passed away on February 27, 2011. In the last Congress, Congressman Cleaver was able to achieve passage of the bill to designate the Liberty Memorial the national memorial by the House of Representatives. All but one Member voted for the bill. The Senate was unable to achieve passage of the measure before adjourning last year. H.R. 938 is a bipartisan measure, and a fitting tribute to the men and women who gave their lives in defense of liberty in the war to end all wars. “For more than eighty years, hundreds of thousands of veterans of World War I, and their families, have come to the Liberty Memorial to remember lost friends and loved ones. As we remember the life and passing of Frank Buckles, the last of the World War I veterans, we will gather and bow our heads, like generations before, at the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City. Dedicated by the Supreme Allied Generals and consecrated by the President of the United States, the citizens of Missouri have long kept the sacred memory of those who sacrificed in the Great War," said Congressman Cleaver. “The bill I have introduced with Congressman Poe reflects the Liberty Memorial’s place as the nation's monument to the honored dead of World War I. It has memorialized their sacrifice since 1926, a time when the wounds were still fresh from the battlefield. Thousands have cried and prayed for their loved ones in the shadow of the Liberty Memorial. Designating the Liberty Memorial as the nation’s memorial to the veterans of The Great War recognizes that with the passing of Mr. Buckles, ours is the only memorial that those who served ever saw. H.R. 938 will confirm the nation’s commitment to the Liberty Memorial, and the men and women it memorializes.” As America approaches the 100th anniversary of World War I, the bipartisan sponsors emphasized that it is important to establish a commission that will properly honor the Americans who sacrificed and risked their lives in the war. In response to this need, H.R. 938 also creates a centennial commission based in Kansas City comprised of twenty-four members appointed from across the country. The commission will help organize businesses, and state and local governments to develop and execute centennial programs. In honor of Mr. Frank Buckles and the 4.8 million Americans served in the Armed Forces during World War I, the nation will once again gather at the Liberty Memorial tomorrow, Saturday, March 12, 2011, at 10 a.m. This free, public event will include an address by former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Richard B. Myers, United States Air Force. The outdoor ceremony will last approximately one hour and will take place regardless of weather conditions. Seating is limited. From 8:30 a.m. – 5:30 p.m., free shuttles to the Museum will run from the parking lots at the southwest and northwest corners of 27th & Warwick. The U-shaped driveway leading to the Museum will be reserved for handicapped parking only. All other attendees are encouraged to use the shuttle service provided or to park on legally designated streets or parking lots near the Museum. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
03.02.2011	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is proud to announce that the President will nominate Chief Alfred C. Lomax of Kansas City to be the next U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Missouri. The President’s nomination comes on the recommendation of Congressman Cleaver, who has known Chief Lomax since he was Mayor of Kansas City. “I know Al will bring to the U.S. Marshal’s office the same integrity and professionalism that has become his trademark over his 30 years of public service. It was my honor to recommend him to the President,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I am pleased to nominate these outstanding public servants to serve as U.S. Marshals,” said President Obama. “Throughout their careers, these individuals have demonstrated an unwavering commitment to justice, and I am grateful for their continued willingness to serve and protect the American people.” Chief Lomax has been the head of Airport Police at Kansas City International Airport since 1992. He assumed his position at the airport after retiring as the Deputy Chief of the Investigation Bureau of the Kansas City Police Department. Chief Lomax joined the Kansas City Police Department in 1963. The U.S. Marshals Service is the nation’s oldest and most versatile federal law enforcement agency. Federal Marshals have served the country since 1789, oftentimes in unseen but critical ways. To this day, the Marshals Service occupies a uniquely central position in the federal justice system. It is the enforcement arm of the federal courts, and as such, it is involved in virtually every federal law enforcement initiative. Presidentially appointed, U.S. Marshals direct the activities of 94 districts — one for each federal judicial district including Missouri’s Western District. More than 3,340 Deputy U.S. Marshals and Criminal Investigators form the backbone of the agency. Among their many duties, they apprehend federal fugitives, protect the federal judiciary, operate the Witness Security Program, transport federal prisoners and seize property acquired by criminals through illegal activities. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Senior Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
12.22.2010	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded the Mid-America Regional Council (MARC) a $1.8 million grant to study options for a combined commuter transit network in Jackson County and urban streetcar in downtown Kansas City. “It was my pleasure to help secure these funds to further commuter rail in Jackson County. These federal dollars will help refine and advance plans that will someday help our residents move across the region in a more efficient, equitable and environmentally friendly way. I believe this is an excellent indication that the U.S. Department of Transportation and my friend Secretary Ray LaHood are interested in investing in Kansas City’s commuter rail transportation proposal,” said Congressman Cleaver. The study — called an “alternatives analysis” — will help local officials select preferred service options based on the benefits, costs and impacts of investments that could address transportation needs in the following corridors: an I-70 commuter alignment heading east from Union Station, running in a shared corridor, to approximately the I-70/I-435 interchange, where it then runs east along I-70 through the cities of Independence, Blue Springs, Grain Valley, Oak Grove and Odessa. a Rock Island alignment southeast of downtown, generally along Missouri Route 350, and specifically along the former Rock Island railroad right of way (not currently in service) through the communities of Raytown, Lee’s Summit, Greenwood and Pleasant Hill. a downtown Kansas City, Mo., circulator system connecting Crown Center and Union Station with the Crossroads District, downtown Kansas City, and the River Market area — representing the region’s most travelled and densely populated corridor. The goal is to advance implementation of Greater Kansas City’s Smart Moves vision for regional transit service by laying the foundation for an integrated, high-capacity urban and commuter transit system that connects communities to employment, entertainment and housing opportunities throughout the region. The study will evaluate various transit modes for the corridors, such as express bus, bus rapid transit, streetcar, light rail and commuter rail, and will identify a preferred service alternative within each corridor. “We’ve begun making improvements to infrastructure in key urban corridors to support a bus rapid transit network,” said Raytown, Mo., Mayor David Bower, a co-chair of MARC’s Transit Committee. “This grant will continue the region’s momentum by helping to outline our plan for expanded commuter services.” The alternatives analysis aligns with federal sustainability and livability priorities and will build on past planning work conducted by MARC, the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA), Kansas City, Mo., and Jackson County. Conducting this type of study is a required step in pursuing federal funds for future capital investments in public transit. “There’s a great deal of enthusiasm for advancing transit services that improve quality of life, better connect people to the places they need to go, and position our region to remain successful in the coming decades,” said Jackson County Executive Mike Sanders. The Federal Transit Administration had approximately $25.7 million available in transit-planning funds from fiscal year 2009 and 2010 to award through its Alternatives Analysis Program. In July, MARC submitted a competitive application for $2 million on behalf of a partnership with Jackson County, Mo., Kansas City, Mo., and KCATA. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
11.18.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Emanuel Cleaver of Missouri was elected by acclamation as the 22nd Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) during the group’s organizational meeting, yesterday evening. The CBC is one of the largest and most influential groups in Congress. Congressman Cleaver’s elevation to Chairman after only six years in Congress is seen as remarkable. “I am humbled and honored by my colleagues' support, and I plan to prove myself worthy of their endorsement,” said Chairman-elect Cleaver. “I owe a deep debt to our current Chair, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, for her steadfast leadership. I have learned much from her estimable example. I look forward to working with all my colleagues, of all creeds, colors, parties, and ideologies, as we begin the 112th Congress in 2011.” In accepting the post, Congressman Cleaver told his colleagues, “Because we now occupy the minority, the challenge we are faced with will be greater. But I believe we are up to the task. If we speak with one voice, our wisdom will reach further and farther than mere words can. If we act with one spirit, our influence will be bolder and brighter. If we walk together, we will accomplish our aim.” “Our mission, since our founding in 1971, is clear: "to promote the public welfare through legislation designed to meet the needs of millions of neglected citizens.” As the conscience of the Congress, our work is never done. As you know, our numbers continue to increase, the CBC is now the largest caucus and arguably the most powerful. But we must remember that there is more power in an open hand than a closed fist.” Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), who will remain Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus until January, applauded the election of Chairman-elect Cleaver, calling him a strong and capable leader. “As First Vice Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressman Cleaver oversaw our Jobs Taskforce and played an integral role in crafting and implementing our legislative and messaging strategy on a host of issues from health care reform and the economic recovery to climate change and Wall Street reform,” said Congresswoman Lee. Congresswoman Lee said it has been an honor to chair the 42 member Congressional Black Caucus for the past two years as the caucus has worked together to confront the many pressing issues facing the American people. “While we have had many successes on a host of issues, there remains much more important work to do in the upcoming Congress and I am confident that the incoming CBC executive officers are more than up to the challenge,” said Chairwoman Lee. Other CBC Members elected to leadership posts include: Del. Donna M. Christensen (VI) – First Vice Chair Rep. G.K. Butterfield (NC) – Second Vice Chair Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (NY) – Secretary Rep. Andre Carson (IN) – Whip The incoming CBC Leadership will be sworn in on January 5, 2011. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Chairman-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
11.08.2010	Kansas City, MO – Last February, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver joined Senators Bond and McCaskill in requesting the Inspector General of the General Services Administration (GSA), Brian Miller immediately begin an audit of GSA’s handling of public health and safety matters at the Bannister Federal Complex. The Inspector General delivered his report today to Congressman Cleaver and both Senators. In his letter of transmittal, Inspector General Miller says, “The enclosed audit report documents GSA’s history of lax management of environmental issues at the Bannister complex. GSA now appears to be taking the matter more seriously.” The report states, “In response to employee concerns and various news reports, Public Buildings Service (PBS) has taken substantial steps to protect the health of the occupants of the Complex. These recent steps are encouraging, but prior to 2010, PBS did not maintain a strong environmental management curriculum that would have provided positive assurance that the space in the Complex was a safe and healthy work environment.” Reacting to the report, Congressman Cleaver expressed concern over a history of dismissing employee concerns at the Complex. “Even though the Inspector General found that conditions at the Bannister Complex do not pose a threat to current employees, I am greatly concerned by the report’s conclusions that employees’ concerns were not taken seriously. The report also faults previous management of the facility for not filing the proper and required forms, misleading the public and government officials and mismanaging their environmental obligations. All of those faults are completely and utterly unacceptable,” said Congressman Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
10.13.2010	U.S. Rep. Emanuel Cleaver II (MO-05) joined with public and private partners to announce new funding for home rehabilitation and energy conservation in the Green Impact Zone Monday. Neighborhoods in the Green Impact Zone have a lower-than-average rate of owner-occupied homes — a problem that has only increased with the recent rise in home foreclosures. Rather than let foreclosed homes sit vacant or sell them to out-of-area investors, Wells Fargo bank announced plans to give back to the community by transferring ownership of 23 foreclosed homes to the Ivanhoe Neighborhood Council Foundation, which will oversee rehabilitation of the properties. Tony Julianelle, area sales manager for Wells Fargo Bank, also announced a cash donation of $7,500 per home — a total of $172,500 — to help with rehabbing and remodeling the homes for Kansas City families. The city of Kansas City, Mo., will also provide funding to help revitalize neighborhoods in the zone. On Oct. 7, the City Council voted unanimously to allocate $500,000 of the city’s $1.8 million Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP3) funds to the Green Impact Zone. “There are many homes, particularly in the urban core, where the economics of rehab in today’s market do not work,” Cleaver said. “The ability to start the rehab process without having to pay for the homes makes that equation work and will help qualified homebuyers move back into the Green Impact Zone.” Kelvin Simmons, commissioner of the Missouri Office of Administration, formally announced the launch of the Green Impact Zone Low-Income Weatherization Assistance Program. The Mid-America Regional Council received $4.5 million in federal stimulus funds from the Department of Energy and Missouri Department of Natural Resources to weatherize homes in the Green Impact Zone and the surrounding area. Under the program, 659 homes will be weatherized, which will lower residents’ utility usage and help the environment. Applicants for the program can visit www.greenimpactzone.org/energy or call 816-701-8300 for more information. The Green Impact Zone is an area of the urban core stretching from 39th to 51st streets, and Troost to Prospect and Swope Parkway. The Green Impact Zone initiative, which uses federal stimulus funds and innovative partnerships to transform these distressed neighborhoods into a sustainable community, has received national attention as a model for place-based strategies to improve the quality of life in declining neighborhoods. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
10.05.2010	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement upon the death of his friend and predecessor Congresswoman Karen McCarthy. “It is with great sadness that I confirm news of the passing of Congresswoman Karen McCarthy. Her fight with Alzheimer’s was devastating and swift and this evening our nation mourns the loss of a true pioneer. She was brave in the face of a truly heartbreaking disease that led to the end of her career in Congress. Our community owes her so very much.” “Her work as a teacher, an advocate, a state legislator and a Member of Congress helped literally tens of thousands of families in Missouri. Across this nation, millions of children are healthier and happier because of the tireless efforts of Karen McCarthy.” “My prayers, and I know the thoughts of the people of Missouri’s Fifth District, are with Karen’s family and friends this evening. She was a true public servant and a caring soul. Our community will miss her.” Congresswoman McCarthy was 63. She served the people of Missouri’s Fifth District in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1995 to 2005. Arrangements will be announced in the coming days. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
10.05.2010	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II honored Mr. Thomas Joseph Mumm, a Veteran of the Vietnam War, with medals earned during his service to our country. Then Machinist Mate Third Class Mumm served aboard the Essex class aircraft carrier U.S.S. Shangri-La. Upon completion of his duty, Mr. Mumm never received the medals he deserved. Nearly forty years after his service, Congressman Cleaver was able to have Mr. Mumm’s awards and commendations re-issued by the Department of Defense. “It is my great honor to award Mr. Mumm the medals he so bravely earned while in the Navy. These medals are symbols of gratitude from the people of America for a job well done in defense of our freedom. They are passed from generation to generation as reminders of the sacrifices made by those who put their lives on the line for us. It is always a privilege, even forty years after the fact, to decorate a veteran. My sincere thanks to Mr. Mumm for all he has done in service to our nation,” said Congressman Cleaver. The awards were presented to Mr. Mumm as part of the Congressman’s 51st “Coffee with Cleaver”. On behalf of, and with the thanks of the people of the United States of America, Mr. Mumm’s son pinned on his father: the Navy Achievement Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal with 3 bronze stars, the Meritorious Unit Commendation Ribbon and the Vietnam Campaign Medal with 1960 Device. Mr. Mumm is a resident of Lee’s Summit, Missouri. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
08.20.2010	KANSAS CITY, Mo. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II invites all former and retired employees of the Bannister Federal Complex to a public meeting on Monday, Aug. 23 at 5 p.m. The meeting will be held at the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 124, located at 303 East 103rd Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. Congressman Cleaver will be joined by representatives from Senator Kit Bond and Senator Claire McCaskill's offices, as well as officials from the Department of Labor, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Environmental Protection Agency, National Nuclear Security Administration, General Services Administration, and the Missouri Department of Natural Resources. The Department of Labor representatives and NIOSH ombudsman will be on-hand to assist current and former employees with the compensation claims process. “I know there is a lot of concern about the health of individuals who worked at the Bannister Federal Complex, which is why I have sought to gather the necessary resources, in one place, to help people get the answers they deserve,” Congressman Cleaver said. “And, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate and each of the federal agencies until we find those answers.” After a brief program, current and former employees will have the opportunity to meet with representatives from the various federal agencies, who will be available to answer questions until 10 p.m. WHO: Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II will be joined by representatives from Sen. Kit Bond and Sen. Claire McCaskill's offices, as well as GSA Regional Administrator Jason Klumb and other officials from DOL, NIOSH, EPA, NNSA, GSA, and DNR WHAT: Meeting to connect former Bannister Complex employees with available federal and state resources WHEN: 5:00 pm, August 23, 2010 WHERE: IBEW Local 124 Union Hall, 303 E. 103rd Terrace, Kansas City, MO Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
08.18.2010	Congressman Cleaver will meet with all Public School District Superintendents of Missouri’s Fifth District to discuss the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act. As you know, last week the President signed H.R. 1586 into law. The legislation will save or create 319,000 jobs, including 161,000 teacher jobs, and also discourages American corporations from shipping jobs overseas. The legislation includes $10 billion to save teacher jobs and $16.1 billion in health assistance to the states. The bill is completely paid for. Under the bill, Missouri will receive an estimated $189 million in emergency education funding. It is estimated that 3,300 Missouri teacher jobs would be saved by this funding. The legislation uses the same formula to distribute the education funds to states as was used in the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund under the Recovery Act. The formula allocates funds based on each state’s relative population of individuals ages 5 to 24 and of each state’s share of the total population. Governors will distribute funds to districts using the state’s primary funding formulae for K-12 education or each district’s share of Title I. Once the bill is enacted, Governors will be required to tell local school districts which formula they plan to use to allocate the funds to ensure districts can plan immediately to hire back staff. WHO: Congressman Cleaver, II and Missouri Fifth District Superintendents WHAT: Meeting to discuss new federal money for teachers WHEN: 11:00 am, August 18, 2010 WHERE: Raytown School District Building, Board Room, 6608 Raytown Road, Raytown, MO 64133 Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
08.10.2010	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives today approved legislation that will save or create 319,000 American jobs in local communities, including 161,000 teacher jobs, and also discourages American corporations from shipping jobs overseas. By a vote of 247 to 161, the House passed H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act. President Obama indicated he would sign the legislation into law later today. The legislation includes $10 billion to save teacher jobs and $16.1 billion in health assistance to the states. The funding will also keep police officers and firefighters on the job. The bill is completely paid for. “Education in America has changed since I sat in a classroom in Waxahachie, Texas,” said Congressman Cleaver,” Growing up, it was common to have teachers who stood at the front of the classroom with only a two-year degree under their belt. Today, most teachers hold a full four-year degree, and over half have earned master’s degrees. Our teachers are as educated as they have ever been, and they work equally as hard. The average primary or secondary school teacher works over 50 hours a week, including time spent helping kids find the right bus, directing fundraisers, and advising student clubs. They are a precious resource and an unflagging force, laboring daily for the public good.” “As the economic crisis eroded the coffers of state and school districts, many of our teachers found their jobs in jeopardy. In the last few months it became clear that budgetary concerns in state and local governments all over our country threatened our schools. But last week my colleagues in the Senate approved a measure to infuse our cash-strapped states with the funds necessary to keep our teachers in the classrooms and off the unemployment lines,” said Cleaver. The bill derives its funds from cuts to programs in current and future budgets. The bill also raises revenue by closing a tax loophole that has been exploited by multi-national companies who send jobs overseas. According to estimates from the Department of Education, the $10 billion in education funding will save 161,000 teacher jobs nation-wide. The Economic Policy Institute estimates the Medicaid funds will save and create 158,000 jobs, including preventing the layoff of police officers and firefighters. More than half of these jobs will be in the private sector, including workers who contract for or supply services to state and local governments. Under the bill, Missouri will receive an estimated $189 million in emergency education funding. It is estimated that 3,300 Missouri teacher jobs would be saved by this funding. The legislation uses the same formula to distribute the education funds to states as was used in the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund under the Recovery Act. The formula allocates funds based on each state’s relative population of individuals ages 5 to 24 and of each state’s share of the total population. Governors will distribute funds to districts using the state’s primary funding formulae for K-12 education or each district’s share of Title I. Once the bill is enacted, Governors will be required to tell local school districts which formula they plan to use to allocate the funds to ensure districts can plan immediately to hire back staff. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.21.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, today urged Senate Republicans to stop blocking critical legislation that would boost America's economic recovery, reduce the number of people standing in Missouri’s unemployment lines, and provide relief for those in between jobs. Since September of 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives has passed several bills that would create jobs and stimulate the economy. Meanwhile, the legislation has been stalled in the U.S. Senate. In June, 272,000 Missouri residents were counted among the unemployed. The unemployment rate in Missouri is at an appalling 9.1 percent, up 3.8 percentage points from December 2007. "When you have near 10 percent unemployment, and the possibility that it is going to rise, you have an emergency,” said the Congressman. “Though no one wants to add to the debt, there are two exceptions: war and unemployment. More than two million Americans are losing their unemployment benefits because of the Senate Republicans obstruction. This number keeps getting higher as they dive further down into poisonous partisan politics.” Republicans in the Senate have blocked legislation that would extend unemployment benefits for millions of people, provide $1 billion for 350,000 youth employment jobs program and $2.5 billion in emergency assistance for needy families working in public and private sector jobs. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
06.15.2010	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, June 15, 2010, after the last votes of the day, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, II, will join with his neighbors, Rep. Albio Sires, Rep. John Linder, Rep. Yvette Clarke, Rep. Mark Kirk, Rep. Judy Biggert, Rep. Jason Chaffetz, Rep. Jim McDermott, and their staff to enjoy a “Civility Social.” These members from across the aisle and around the country will join in a spirit of bipartisanship and camaraderie to share refreshments from their home districts. “This is a moment for us all to press pause on the polarizing partisanship of Washington and to turn to our colleagues across the aisle and see one another as friends, not foes,” said Congressman Cleaver. “We have much work to do in this Congress, and we will get more accomplished if we spend less time calling each other names and more time conducting civil conversations about our shared future. If some of that conversation is conducted over Kansas City barbecue, then so be it.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
06.14.2010	Congressman Cleaver is proud to announce that Raytown, Raymore and Peculiar are among the cities that have been awarded an Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) from the U.S. Department of Energy. The Secretary of Energy announced that 20 projects nationwide have been selected for more than $60 million in funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to implement local energy efficiency and renewable energy programs to reduce energy use by American homes, vehicles, and businesses. Among the handful of successful applications nationwide, the Department of Energy selected the Mid-America Regional Council (MARC), who organized a coalition of 26 smaller cities in the Kansas City metropolitan area. The total grant was for $4,063,994 for the project. Under the plan dubbed “Smart Lights for Smart Cities” the cities will replace inefficient street lights with high-efficiency street lights. Not only will these new street lights use significantly less energy and generate less greenhouse gases and other pollutants, but they will also save our cities money. Local governments spend as much as 25 to 50 percent of their electric utility bills on street lights. This is especially burdensome on local governments during this period of decreased revenues. “I am proud to announce this grant to Raytown, Raymore and Peculiar. These funds were awarded because of the collaboration and cooperation, initiative and innovation exhibited in MARC’s application. The relationship MARC continues to build with the Department of Energy is paying dividends not just for the Green Impact Zone, but for communities across the Fifth District. Congratulations to MARC, Raytown, Raymore and Peculiar. This is an award which will make our streets safer, brighter and greener. These are our tax dollars coming home to put people to work literally lighting up our neighborhoods,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. Congressman Cleaver was on hand at the White House when Vice President Biden announced a $20 million dollar EECBG grant to MARC and the City of Kansas City last month to help retrofit homes in six neighborhoods including the Green Impact Zone. The objective of the “Smart Lights for Smart Cities” project is to deploy different technologies from different vendors in a number of cities and use this initial deployment to transform the street-light market in the Kansas City metro area. This will be implemented through a partnership of the Smart Lights Coalition, MARC and local utilities, particularly Kansas City Power & Light (KCPL). The project will produce immediate cost and environmental savings including total annual savings to the partner cities of $131,981, and an annual savings of almost 1.2 million KWH, and a reduction in CO2 emissions of 1,379 tons. The cities’ utility-bill savings by year six are estimated to be over $1.1 million. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
03.17.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, the U.S. Department of Treasury and the Department of Education are pleased to announce that $16,274,000 in school construction bonds authority has been awarded to the Kansas City Missouri School District. The Congressman announced that nationally $11 billion was allocated for qualified school construction bonds under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act). Qualified school construction bonds can be used to finance the construction, rehabilitation or repair of a public school facility or for the acquisition of land where a school will be built. “This is money to help our local school districts continue to repair and invest in our schools despite the economic hard times we are facing. At a time when the Kansas City School District is consolidating half its schools, this allocation will allow for much needed building and classroom improvements necessary to accommodate shifting thousands of students. This is a zero-interest loan authority to invest in Kansas City’s students as they adjust to their new situation,” said Congressman Cleaver. This announcement comes at a time when the Kansas City, Missouri School District is embarking on a radical transformation plan for Teaching and Learning for a New Millennium. “This funding is just what we need to upgrade many of our facilities and provide students with the 21st century learning environments they deserve,” said John Covington, Superintendent of the Kansas City, Missouri School District. “The bonds will assist us in providing a safe, nurturing and improved educational environment that enhances and supports academic achievement.” “Recovery Act school construction bonds provide low-cost borrowing to build and upgrade schools, which is a win-win for communities across the country,” said Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin. “The projects funded with these bonds create jobs today building modern schools to prepare our kids for the global economy of tomorrow.” "Preparing students to compete in the global economy requires improvements in all aspects of our nation's education system, including the environments in which they learn," added Education Deputy Secretary Tony Miller. "The Recovery Act is keeping teachers in the classroom and, through the construction bond program, making lasting investments in the quality of our schools. Our kids deserve no less." Created by the Recovery Act, qualified school construction bonds help state and local governments obtain low-cost financing for much needed public school improvements and construction. Investors who buy these bonds receive Federal income tax credits at prescribed tax credit rates in lieu of interest. These tax credit bonds essentially allow state and local governments to borrow without incurring interest costs. The Recovery Act provided for the issuance of $11 billion of qualified school construction bonds by states and large local educational agencies in 2009 and $11 billion in 2010. The 2010 allocations include $6.6 billion of bonding authority to the 50 states and the remaining $4.4 billion was allocated the nation’s 103 largest local educational agencies, including Kansas City, Missouri. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
03.14.2010	(Washington, D.C.) --- When I was young man, I participated in the civil rights movement, and felt like I contributed to passage of landmark legislation that fundamentally made our nation more fair, just and equitable. This weekend I was able to participate directly, in the passage of a measure that will rank along side those great laws of civil justice. Despite the acrimony, the animosity and anxiety and in an environment of vitriol and venom the likes of which I have not seen in decades, I proudly voted Sunday to make health care in America a right, not a privilege. For over 100 years, since Teddy Roosevelt was in the Oval Office, our government has attempted to secure this right for its people. This week, we joined the rest of the industrialized world in stating clearly: basic health of all our citizens is an issue of equity. In the greatest country on earth, the difference between living and dying will no longer be determined by the size of your wallet. There were those who said that the sun would not rise Monday after the vote and that the End Times would be upon us if this bill became law. I have rarely heard the Book of Revelation quoted so often. But, we have seen this kind of demagoguery before. Many predicted ruin if slaves were freed of their shackles. Men in Congress predicted the extinction of the nation should women be allowed to vote. And in my lifetime, in the not so distant past, there are those who believed that extending equal rights to all Americans regardless of color would destroy the republic. This new law of the land will help far more than it hurts, it will right many wrongs left for generations and represents a responsible way to care for our people and reduce costs. The world did not end upon passage, and I believe Americans will look back on this legislation as an achievement alongside Social Security and Medicare. As Dr. King said, “the arc of history is long, but it bends towards justice.” This week we bent the arc a little more. Grand talk of history aside, many Americans are trying to cut through the chatter and punditry and get to the substance of reform with a simple question: "What does health insurance reform actually mean for me?" To help, I would like to pass along this list of some key benefits every American should know. Let's start with how health insurance reform will expand and strengthen coverage: This year, children with pre-existing conditions can no longer be denied health insurance coverage. Once the new health insurance exchanges begin in the coming years, pre-existing condition discrimination will become a thing of the past for everyone. This year, health care plans will allow young people to remain on their parents' insurance policy up until their 26th birthday. This year, insurance companies will be banned from dropping people from coverage when they get sick, and they will be banned from implementing lifetime caps on coverage. This year, restrictive annual limits on coverage will be banned for certain plans. Under health insurance reform, Americans will be ensured access to the care they need. This year, adults who are uninsured because of pre-existing conditions will have access to affordable insurance through a temporary, subsidized high-risk pool. In the next fiscal year, the bill increases funding for community health centers, like Swope and Sam Rodgers Health Centers, so they can treat nearly double the number of patients over the next five years. This year, we'll also establish an independent commission to advise on how best to build the health care workforce and increase the number of nurses, doctors and other professionals to meet our country's needs. Going forward, we will provide $1.5 billion in funding to support the next generation of doctors, nurses and other primary care practitioners -- on top of a $500 million investment from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Health insurance reform will also curb some of the worst insurance industry practices and strengthen consumer protections: This year, this bill creates a new, independent appeals process that ensures consumers in new private plans have access to an effective process to appeal decisions made by their insurer. This year, discrimination based on salary will be outlawed. New group health plans will be prohibited from establishing any eligibility rules for health care coverage that discriminate in favor of higher-wage employees. Beginning this fiscal year, this bill provides funding to states to help establish offices of health insurance consumer assistance in order to help individuals in the process of filing complaints or appeals against insurance companies. Starting January 1, 2011, insurers in the individual and small group market will be required to spend 80 percent of their premium dollars on medical services. Insurers in the large group market will be required to spend 85 percent of their premium dollars on medical services. Any insurers who don't meet those thresholds will be required to provide rebates to their policyholders. Starting in 2011, this bill helps states require insurance companies to submit justification for requested premium increases. Any company with excessive or unjustified premium increases may not be able to participate in the new health insurance exchanges. Reform immediately begins to lower health care costs for American families and small businesses: This year, small businesses that choose to offer coverage will begin to receive tax credits of up to 35 percent of premiums to help make employee coverage more affordable. This year, new private plans will be required to provide free preventive care: no co-payments and no deductibles for preventive services. And beginning January 1, 2011, Medicare will do the same. This year, this bill will provide help for early retirees by creating a temporary re-insurance program to help offset the costs of expensive premiums for employers and retirees age 55-64. This year, this bill starts to close the Medicare Part D 'donut hole' by providing a $250 rebate to Medicare beneficiaries who hit the gap in prescription drug coverage. And beginning in 2011, the bill institutes a 50% discount on prescription drugs in the 'donut hole.' Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
12.08.2009	In an effort to draw both attention to and answers about the lack of investment in African American communities, Congressman Cleaver, Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and Chair of its new Job Creation Task Force, refused to vote during a key vote in the House Financial Services Committee. Nine of the Congressman’s CBC colleagues joined him in the protest. The Financial Services Committee approved the Financial Stability Improvement Act (H.R. 3996), passed by a vote of 31-27 without the votes of African American members of the Committee. For weeks Members of the Congressional Black Caucus have been demanding answers about how the government bailout of banks, financial institutions and auto makers is helping minorities. “The intent of the government propping up lending institutions was to increase lending. As anyone knows who has gone in to get a loan, lending has absolutely not been increased. All the home-buying incentives in the world will not do anyone any good if banks will not loan money,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Money may be flowing again on Wall Street, but I can tell you it is not flowing on Kansas City’s Eastside. I want to know why that is before I can vote for this bill.” “Today’s committee vote on financial regulatory reform asked members to commit to one of the most important pieces of legislation we will pass without first having vital information about the effectiveness of the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF). The CBC has been concerned that while a disproportionate brunt of the financial crash has been borne by minorities and lower income communities, very little attention or TARP money has been spent to help lenders who serve poor communities.” “Huge Wall Street firms and banks have gotten billions in TARP and TALF funds while community banks, and minority owned banks in particular have received a fraction of one percent of the TARP funds. Congress is left to speculate on those numbers because the Treasury has been having difficulty getting specifics on these funds,” continued Cleaver after the hearing. “In particular it has been hard to get information on TARP funds, and the Treasury Department continues to try find and disclose even the most basic of information. We should know how much money has been spent, where it has been spent and how much benefit have we gotten? If we cannot get solid answers from the Treasury Department on how the TARP funds are being used, how can we make educated choices on how to fix the regulatory system?” The effects of this recession on minority communities have been devastating. Although unemployment is at record levels nationwide, the impact on the African American community is especially devastating, with the latest figures at 17.4%. The numbers are even higher for youth, topping 35% in many communities. In addition, food stamp assistance, a key economic indicator is at 28% for African Americans, as compared to 8% of Whites. These are among the reasons why the CBC has appointed Congressman Cleaver as chair of its Job Creation Task Force. He is charged with focusing efforts on job creation, economic development and the expansion of small and minority businesses. He will draft the Congressional Black Caucus’s proposal for inclusion in the coming jobs package. Minority communities were targeted by predatory lenders. Fifty-five percent of loans made in 2005 to African Americans were subprime as compared to 17 percent for whites. In addition, 1 in 10 African American homeowners are expected to go into foreclosure, compared to 1 in 25 Whites. African Americans and Latinos could lose up to 164 billion dollars in wealth, over half of the nation’s overall foreclosure losses. In addition to the individual struggles in the African American community, business institutions are facing greater economic strain due to the recession and a continued legacy of lack of access to credit. In 2001 there were 600 African American-owned automobile dealers; today there are less than 300. African American auto dealers are facing a credit squeeze as the very manufacturers have been bailed out have failed to use their resources to assist in floor plan financing, and other mechanisms to help in the survival of these important institutions. Despite significant numbers of highly skilled, qualified and experienced minority- and women-owned legal, accounting, asset management and financial services firms, barriers to entry remain high or prohibitive for significant contracting and asset purchase opportunities within the Federal government and its agencies. All ten Members of the committee co-authored a provision in the Financial Services Regulatory reform package that would establish the Office of Minority and Women Inclusion in each of the financial services-focused agencies to ensure parity and access in government contracting. Over the last decade the number of African American-owned newspapers has decreased by 40 percent. Like other businesses, access to capital has been a challenge for this industry as well. The GAO reported that from 2001 through 2005, the Federal government devoted only 5 percent of its $4.3 billion ad-related expenditures to small or minority businesses – which included broadcasters, advertising agencies, graphic design houses, etc. Let us be clear, we understand that many of these issues are not issues that have been created solely in the last 9 months. As is the case in many issues, problems we are having in minority communities are reflective of broader national issues. As the conscience of the Congress, the Congressional Black Caucus has fought and will continue to fight against inequality and injustice. This struggle for economic prosperity is a fight for all Americans. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus believe American taxpayers deserve to know that their hard earned dollars are being spent wisely and in a way that helps all our communities. In a statement, White House spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said: "The president's top priority is economic recovery and we understand the profound impact that the recession is having on the African-American community. We welcome a continuing dialogue with the CBC on how we can collaborate to implement the president's agenda to support economic growth and opportunity for all Americans." “We have given almost all of the attention to the ‘too big to fail’ as if everyone else is ‘too small to matter’,” said Cleaver. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
12.01.2009	“I appreciate the thoughtful and comprehensive approach the President has outlined to establish clear benchmarks for successfully concluding our involvement in Afghanistan. I want our troops to be brought home safely to their families in a sane and swift way. Our attention should never have been diverted from rooting out Al Qaeda and its successor in terror, the Taliban. We have lost valuable time and sadly more precious lives because we have been distracted in the sands of Iraq. The plan the President explained to the American people represents best thinking on how to leave Afghanistan a stable and secure nation whose people will see Americans as a friends. I am always skeptical of putting more of our young men and women in harms way, but the President trusts his generals in the field, and I stand with them as well. The President has made very clear that it is time for the leaders of Afghanistan to reflect the resolve exhibited by our troops." Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
11.11.2009	Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II announced that by a vote of 418-1 he has secured House passage of a bill that will designate the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri as the National World War I Memorial. The bill also establishes a national Commission to begin planning the World War I Centennial Commemoration and houses that Commission in Kansas City. The announcement was made during Veterans Day observance at the Liberty Memorial. Since 1921 the memorial in Kansas City has held the flame of the memories of those loved and lost in the Great War. Ninety-one years ago in November of 1918 a campaign began unprecedented in American history. The citizens of Kansas City with the honored dead still fresh in their minds, raised $2.5 million dollars in 10 days to raise a memorial to the Nation’s soldiers. Adjusted for inflation, the equivalent would be raising $30 million in 10 days today. “This memorial, a reminder to the world of the cost of war, was born from a heartfelt desire from America’s heartland to memorialize our Nation’s sacrifice. Inscribed on the base of the tower is a dedication to all who died in the Great War. Hundreds of thousands of Veterans of World War I and their families have come to Kansas City to weep, remember and salute their fallen family, friends and brothers in arms. No other memorial will ever be able to claim the distinction that it has caught the tears of those left behind in the years after the world’s first global war. Our Memorial, our Nation’s memorial was built by those who knew first hand the horrors of the fields of Europe,” said Congressman Cleaver. The Liberty Memorial opened on November 1, 1921 to a tumultuous crowd of 200,000 people. Included among the guests where all five Allied Commanders including General John J. Pershing the Supreme Commander of Allied Forces in World War I. In the crowd in uniform that day was also the Captain of Army Company D, Harry Truman. Overtime, three United States Presidents have dedicated the memorial. President Coolidge laid the cornerstone in 1918 and Presidents Truman and Eisenhower rededicated the Memorial in 1961. Despite this history, efforts have emerged in Washington to designate the District of Columbia’s World War I Memorial the National Memorial. “I appreciate the hard work of Congressman Cleaver and his Missouri and Kansas colleagues in the House who convinced their counterparts across the nation that Kansas City should be forever designated the home of the National World War I Memorial,” said National World War I Museum President & CEO Brian Alexander. “Just because there are some in Washington who have forgotten that Kansas City was entrusted to tend the Nation’s Memorial to those lost in World War I does not mean that we forgot. We have taken our covenant made to those who grieved in 1918 seriously. In 1991, as Mayor, I went out for vote on a half cent sales tax, that the voters approved to repair the memorial and we later paid to establish the National World War I Museum at its base. The taxes passed in every precinct and every corner of our city,” said Cleaver. “There are those who may have forgotten the Great War, but none of them live here. We have always been the home of the National World War I Memorial. This bill merely makes it official.” The House of Representatives moved the bill forward late last Thursday so that the announcement of its passage could be made at Kansas City's Veterans Day observance at the Liberty Memorial. The bill now goes to the Senate where Senators Bond and McCaskill are co-sponsors of its companion. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
10.30.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Senator Kit Bond and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II announced that Congress approved more than $1.5 million in federal dollars that will fund wastewater infrastructure improvements in the City of Lee’s Summit. “My best ideas come from the people of Missouri, I listen to what their needs are back home and work for a solution,” said Bond. “Local leaders in Lee’s Summit asked me to help send some of their tax dollars back home to help ensure clean water for one of Missouri’s fastest growing cities.” “I am always proud to work with my friend Senator Bond to bring home much needed federal funds. These are your tax dollars put to work in your community. In these tough economic times and when city budgets are tighter than ever, projects like this in Lee’s Summit still have to be done. I was very happy to help move Senator Bond’s request through the House of Representatives and know it will help ease some local budget strain,” said Cleaver. “This money secured by our Congressional delegation will help us complete a much needed project, and bring jobs to Lee’s Summit,” said Mayor Karen Messerli. “They may be in different parties, but when it comes to helping Lee’s Summit, I can always count on Senator Bond and Congressman Cleaver to deliver. Not only does this project create immediate jobs, it will assist Lee’s Summit to further in its long term economic growth.” The $1,500,000 to improve the City of Lee’s Summit wastewater infrastructure will help spur economic development on land adjacent to Interstate 470, between the View High and Pryor Road interchanges. This project is a local top priority and these much needed infrastructure improvements will attract high-skilled and high-paying jobs to the area. A senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond requested and secured funds for this project in the Senate’s spending bill that funds clean water projects. In the House of Representatives Congressman Cleaver worked to ensure passage of these funds as part of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations (H.R. 2996) conference report for fiscal year 2010. Passed by both the House and Senate, the bill has now been sent to the President to be signed into law. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
10.30.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II announced that he won final approval of funding requests for the National Parks Service in Independence, Missouri for two significant projects. The funding becomes law as part of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations conference report (H.R. 2996) which passed both chambers yesterday and will be signed by the President tomorrow. The bill allocates $1.018 million for renovating and adding interpretative exhibits to the Noland House across from the Truman Home in Independence and $1.3 million for land acquisition at the Truman farmstead in Grandview. Both projects are part of the Harry S Truman National Historic Site. “I am so pleased to announce these funds that will further the great work already being done at the Truman National Historic Sites in Missouri’s Fifth District. It is my great honor to represent the home of one of America’s greatest Presidents and these funds will help continue to tell his story. Particularly at this point in our nation’s history, we need to be listening to the lessons taught to us by President Truman. Students and statesmen alike are wise to learn from his example,” said Congressman Cleaver, II. “The National Parks Service takes great pride in preserving the legacy of President Truman though this National Historic Site,” said Parks Service Superintendent Larry Villalva. “These funds will go a long way toward helping to share President Truman’s life and lessons for generations to come. The renovations will also provide a much needed comfort station for visitors. We deeply appreciate the efforts of Congressman Cleaver and his commitment to one of America’s great treasures, Harry S Truman.” The Noland Home located at 216 North Delaware Street in Independence is where Harry Truman's aunt and her family resided. The home sits across the street from the home of Bess Wallace and her family, which later would become the Truman residence. It was through this proximity that Harry Truman met his wife Bess. Their courtship and marriage has become one of the great personal stories of the Presidency. This funding will restore the Noland Home and install exhibits which address the influence that Truman’s neighborhood connections had on the development of his character. The exhibits would also present the Harry S Truman National Historic Landmark (NHL) District, of which the Noland and Truman Homes are a part, and emphasize the importance of the NHL District's continued preservation. The exhibits component will be funded by private contributions and is not part of the construction project. The $1.3 million secured for the Truman farm will allow the National Parks Service to acquire part of the original farmstead. Acquisition would enable the park to share another dimension of the Truman story and helps preserve the historic integrity of the site by removing non-historic facilities and relocating and upgrading visitor and support services. The farm provides the discussion of Truman’s life on the farm, his courtship period with Bess Wallace, and his character building experiences in Grandview that led to his decisions made as President. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
10.29.2009	Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II won final approval of a measure to designate 20 percent of the $3.487 billion State Revolving Funds for “green” innovations. The provision became law as part of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations conference report (H.R. 2996) for fiscal year 2010 which passed both chambers this afternoon and will be signed by the President tomorrow. The bill increases funding by $1.9 billion over 2009 levels to allow states to address the nation’s aging wastewater infrastructure in order to sustain and improve water quality. The “20 percent for Green” provision is designed to help fund environmentally conscious solutions for projects like Kansas City’s combined sewer reconstruction. Under the formula instructed by the provision, nearly $700 million dollars nationwide will be directed to “environmentally innovative activities”. “I am proud the Congress added this provision to the already significant increases in water infrastructure funding in this bill. This action insures that no less than 20 percent of the billions in grant funds made available by this bill for sewer overflow control will be spent on projects that incorporate green approaches and practices. I believe this strikes a reasonable balance between green infrastructure and traditional control systems, as both have a role in creating a sustainable and workable solution to sewer overflows,” said Congressman Cleaver. In order to comply with the Clean Water Act of 1972, the City of Kansas City has developed a plan that will cost $2.4 billion over 25-30 years. The Combined Sewer Overflow plan represents the largest capital project the city has ever undertaken. A year ago, Congressman Cleaver urged the Mayor and City Council to adopt the “greenest plan possible.” “When I encouraged the City to include more ‘green’ solutions in its Combined Sewer Overflow Plan, I promised the City that the path to ‘green’ would yield more opportunities for federal funding. This is the first step in keeping that promise,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I said I would fight tooth-and-nail for money if the City advanced the vision of a healthier, more sustainable and greener future. This provision makes Kansas City’s commitment to green pay off with a better chance at millions of federal dollars. I would like to thank the Kansas City Council, and particularly the hard work of Councilwoman Jan Marcason, for leading the City towards a greener future.” The bill’s State Revolving Funds allow Missouri to maintain revolving loan funds to provide independent and permanent sources of low-cost financing to municipalities for a wide range of water quality infrastructure projects, such as sewer repair and reconstruction. Studies indicate that for every $1 billion invested in infrastructure projects, anywhere from 35,000 to nearly 50,000 jobs are created. Beyond job creation, these investments in water and sewer infrastructure will help our cities meet public health and safety needs and help attract new businesses and residents. This is the second major water funding bill the “20 percent for Green” provision has been incorporated into, but the first to become law. A second similar provision passed the House earlier in the year as part of the Water Quality Investment Act of 2009 (H.R. 1262) and is still pending in the Senate. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
08.20.2009	“I am committed to a health care plan that covers every single American, reduces the cost of care, allows people to keep their insurance if they like, and prohibits insurers from discriminating based on pre-existing conditions or onset of a tragic illness. Period. I am willing to do whatever is necessary to construct a plan that accomplishes those central goals. I believe in the public option, but frankly, I do not care what that plan is called or who gets credit as long as it works," said Congressman Cleaver. "We would be well served, when we return to Washington, to reset the discussion, take a deep breath and look at the plans on the table and ideas not yet considered with fresh eyes. It is absolutely critical we make this work and I am willing to listen to any idea and consider any adjustment that covers every American and reduces the cost of health care.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.21.2009	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, First Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and Co-Chair of the Caucus’ Energy and Environment Task Force welcomed Anita Maltbia, the newly hired director of the Green Impact Zone, to the U.S. Capitol Building. Maltbia was asked to participate in the CBC’s Inaugural Green Roundtable chaired by Congressman Cleaver. The purpose of the meeting was to develop a “green Agenda” for African American communities by gathering minority business, energy industry, faith, labor, research and elected leaders to discuss this critical issue. “I am pleased to introduce my colleagues to Anita in her role as Director of the Green Impact Zone. She is an exceptional leader, and along with neighborhood and civic leaders in the Green Impact Zone I am confident she will demonstrate to the rest of the nation how green community revitalization is accomplished with a tide that raises all ships,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Her insight and experience have been critical at today’s Roundtable and my colleagues from across the nation are excited to learn from the Green Impact Zone.” “I am excited to join the neighborhood groups, civic leaders and volunteers who have been working so hard on this exciting project. It is my honor to be listening and learning in Washington at the Green Roundtable and I am looking forward to connecting what is being talked about here with what is being worked on in the Green Zone,” said Anita Maltbia, Director of the Green Impact Zone. Maltbia will officially begin work Aug. 3. She will oversee a staff responsible for implementing and coordinating initiatives in the Green Impact Zone. She will work with neighborhood leaders to coordinate programs and outreach in the zone as well as build partnerships with a wide range of stakeholders. A long time resident of the City’s eastside, Maltbia brings to the position many years of management and community experience, including eight years as Assistant City Manager for the City of Kansas City, Mo. During her nearly 27 years working for the City of Kansas City, Maltbia worked closely with Congressman Cleaver in several roles. In 1993, she was asked to step in as interim director of the Convention and Entertainment Centers Department and oversaw the planning and execution of the grand opening of the 500,000 square foot expansion of Bartle Hall. Maltbia is past president of the Greater Kansas City Chapter of the American Society for Public Administration, and served on the national board and as vice-chair of the Strategic Planning Committee of the National Forum for Black Public Administrators. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.21.2009	U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis received a briefing on the Green Impact Zone during her visit to Kansas City this afternoon. After touring the University of Kansas Medical Center, and also visiting the Guadalupe Center’s culinary institute, the Secretary sat down with staff from Congressman Cleaver’s office, officials from the Full Employment Council and labor leaders to discuss investments in jobs and job training in the Green Impact Zone. This meeting follows a visit by Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson who joined the Congressman to tour the neighborhoods that make up the Green Impact Zone. “The President’s Cabinet continues to demonstrate their interest in the Green Impact Zone project. The President himself has cited the project as an example of a smart and effective use of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act dollars,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Secretary Solis is a great friend and former colleague of mine and her request for a briefing on the Green Impact Zone reinforces the power of this transformative and grass roots project.” The Labor Secretary’s visit highlights the center pillar of the Green Impact Zone plan: job creation. “There is no better social program than a job,” said Cleaver. The Zone, bordered on the west by Troost, on the north by 39th Street, on the south by 51st Street and on the east by Prospect Avenue and Swope Parkway, has some of the highest unemployment rates in the city – up to 55 percent in some places. The median household income is just $22,397. The Zone seeks to create jobs by leveraging the evolving green economy by providing a comprehensive job training and placement program to take advantage of jobs weatherizing homes, deconstructing and demolishing dangerous buildings, repaving streets and instituting a smart-grid energy project. The Green Impact Zone will serve as a model of how climate protection strategies can be implemented at the neighborhood level, benefiting both the neighborhood and the region. Job creation will come as a result of targeted investments in the neighborhoods that make up the Zone. The strategy, made possible through federal stimulus funding opportunities, will tackle a broad spectrum of the elements dragging down this 150 block segment of the urban core. Besides creating jobs the plan seeks to enhance the area’s sustainability, public safety, housing conditions, access to services, and economic vitality. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
07.14.2009	Washington, DC – In a sign that the efforts of neighborhood leaders in Kansas City are getting noticed at the highest levels, President Obama has directed his Cabinet to visit Kansas City as part of a three city national tour. Denver and Philadelphia will also be visited. David Warm, Executive Director of the Mid-America Regional Council was at the White House at the invitation of the Office of Urban Policy to promote Kansas City’s urban needs including the Green Impact Zone. Warm was on hand for the announcement delivered by the President. “Instead of waiting for Washington, a lot of cities have already gone ahead and become their own laboratories for change and innovation, some leading the world in coming up with new ways to solve the problems of our time. So you take an example like Denver. Their metropolitan area is projected to grow by 1 million residents over the next 15 years or so. But rather than wait for a congestion crisis, they're already at work on plans to build and operate a public transit system up to the challenge, and to surround that system with smart new housing, retail, and office development near each stop. Philadelphia is an example of what's been called ‘urban agriculture.’ It may sound like an oxymoron, but one proposal is trying to make a situation where fresh, local food supplies are within a short walk for most city residents, which will have a direct impact not only on the economy and on the environment, but also make an immeasurable difference in the health of Americans. Or Kansas City. One idea there focuses on transforming a low-income community into a national model of sustainability by weatherizing homes and building a green local transit system. Three different cities with three unique ideas for the future. And that's why they're three of the cities that are members of my -- that members of my Cabinet and Office of Urban Affairs will visit this summer as part of a ongoing national conversation to lift up best practices from around the country, to look at innovations for the metropolitan areas of tomorrow. Forward-looking cities shouldn't be succeeding despite Washington; they should be succeeding with a hand from Washington. We want to hear directly from them, and we want to hear directly from all of you, on fresh ideas and successful solutions that you've devised, and then figure out what the federal government should do or shouldn't do to help reinvent cities and metropolitan areas for the 21st century.” -President Barack Obama July 13, 2009 REMARKS BY THE PRESIDENT AT URBAN AND METROPOLITAN POLICY ROUNDTABLE “This announcement today from the President is confirmation that the work being done by the neighborhoods, MARC, the city and all the partner agencies is getting noticed by the Administration. When the President is citing your initiative as a model for the nation, you have done something right. My thanks and congratulations go to the neighborhood leaders and community groups who continue to work hard to make this vision a reality. The nation is looking to us to lead,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. The White House said more details about the visit will follow. Complete remarks can be found here. Congressman Cleaver set the ambitious goal of bringing $200 million to this mostly poor, economically depressed section of the city in the spring of 2009. Backed by a unanimous city council, and dozens of community groups, the visit from Cabinet officials confirms that the project is considered one of the stimulus package’s signature economic development projects. The Zone is bordered on the west by Troost, on the north by 39th Street, on the south by 51st Street and on the east by Prospect Avenue and Swope Parkway. The area has some of the highest unemployment rates in the city – up to 55 percent in some places. The median household income is just $22,397. Progress in the Green Impact Zone will be measured over time, but already significant investments have been identified: $27 million for Green Bus Rapid Transit on Troost $25 million to replace bridge at Troost and Brush Creek $1.5 million for Troost and Brush Creek beautification $400,000 for green job training through the Full Employment Council (FEC) $350,000 for Climate Sustainability Center planning $200,000 for LISC Neighborhood Safety Program The Green Impact Zone represents a comprehensive, community-centered approach that sets this project up for long-term success by developing a much-needed neighborhood revitalization strategy from focused infrastructure and social investments. By investing in a targeted, structured and cohesive way like this, community leaders hope to create a new economic model for other parts of Kansas City and region to follow. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
05.15.2009	(Washington, DC) – Yesterday, Congressman Cleaver voted in favor of legislation that will improve our public schools, create clean energy jobs, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and lower energy costs for taxpayers. The 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act, which passed the House on a vote of 275 to 155, will invest in our schools in order to boost our economy now and help prepare our children for the jobs of the future. “This bill uses federal dollars to begin transforming America’s aging schools while at the same time putting our nation back to work. This is a smart investment that leverages the power of the new green economy to inspire a new generation of workers,” said Cleaver. “This measure reduces operating costs of schools allowing our struggling districts to devote more money to educating our students. This is the perfect time to inject these federal dollars into our local school districts. Green will be the engine that turns our country’s economy around. There is no better way to set a course for a greener future than investing in our kids.” The Congressman co-sponsored an amendment that will encourage school districts to link their green construction efforts with curriculum that explains the new technology to students at the school. The Amendment, sponsored with Congresswoman Giffords (AZ-8), passed on a vote of 334 to 97. The 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act provides over $6 billion in federal funds to upgrade school buildings to make them more energy efficient and more reliant on renewable sources of energy. The State of Missouri will receive approximately $97,833,000 in funding. Locally, the approximate allocations for Missouri’s Fifth District School Districts would be: Belton: $303,000 Center: $322,000 Grandview: $494,000 Hickman Mills: $1,165,000 Independence: $977,000 Kansas City: $7,855,000 Lee’s Summit: $405,000 Lone Jack: $17,000 Raymore-Peculiar: $161,000 Raytown: $596,000 Total for Fifth District: $12,295,000 The bill also generates long-term savings for schools by reducing energy expenses. Green schools reduce pollution by using about 30% less water and energy than conventional schools, and emit almost 40% less harmful carbon dioxide. “This bill is common sense. It saves money for our schools, creates jobs and helps us educate our students better. At the same time, it modernizes our schools and prepares our workers for a new, clean energy American economy,” concluded Cleaver. According to calculations by the Economic Policy Institute, this legislation’s construction funding would support as many as 136,000 new jobs – many in areas that will give workers the valuable skills they need to excel in a clean energy economy. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
04.30.2009	Thursday, the Credit Cardholder’s Bill of Rights Act of 2009 (H.R. 627) which Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, Chairman Barney Frank (D-NY), Subcommittee Chairwoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) and Sens. Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Mark Udall (D-CO) are cosponsoring, passed the House of representatives by a vote of 357-70. This comprehensive credit card reform legislation is aimed at leveling the playing field between credit card companies and consumers and abolishes industry abuses that are unfair, deceptive and anti-competitive. “I was sorry to see this important legislation die in the Senate last year and proud that it is one of the first pieces of legislation introduced in this new Congress. In this economy, when far too many are relying on their credit cards for survival, we cannot tolerate abusive and unfair practices that exploit these difficult times,” said Congressman Cleaver. “First came the housing crisis, then the crisis in the financial institutions. The next shoe to drop is the credit card crisis. As more people are out of work, and hard times are reaching deep into their pockets, the default rates for credit cards continue to rise. In response to falling payment rates, the credit card companies are raising interest rates and increasing their minimum payments. These unfair practices, over which you have no control, only force more people to miss their payments, causing default rates to climb higher,” said Cleaver. “Credit card companies continue to take bailout money from the government, and yet seem unable to admit their role in the failure of our economy. They have raised rates, fees, and forced hard-working people to choose between making their minimum payments and putting food on the table, and the consequences have hit our neighborhoods hard. Their policies handed credit to anyone with a pulse and now these companies complain that people with no business having a credit card are behind on their payments. It rings very hollow to me.” “We continue to act in good faith with the nation’s banks, only to have that faith returned with insults. The old phrase ‘biting the hand that feeds you’ comes to mind as stories of exporting jobs and lavish bonuses for failed executives come out daily. I just do not know how many times the American people will tolerate this type of action by the same CEOs they bailed out for bad decisions. Perhaps we should not be surprised,” said the Congressman. “Today’s action helps gives teeth to the meeting the President held last week with the major Credit Card companies at the White House,” said Cleaver. Specifically, the bill protects cardholders against arbitrary interest rate increases, empowers them to set limits on their credit and requires card companies to fairly credit and allocate payments. It also prohibits charging fees just to pay a bill by phone, charging over-the-limit fees unless a consumer opts-in in advance or issuing credits cards to minors. “It is issuing credit cards to minors I have been particularly concerned about. Twenty-five years ago, credit card companies spent $100 million marketing to kids. This year alone they plan on spending nearly $17 billion to market to minors. If that is not disturbing enough, the average college student has more than $3,000 in credit card debt on four or more credit cards. It is a horrible way to begin adult life in and has contributed to the average age of bankruptcy continuing to get younger. I am pleased this bill tries to safeguard our young people,” said Cleaver. The Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights: Protects cardholders against arbitrary interest rate increases Prevents cardholders who pay on time from being unfairly penalized Protects cardholders from due date gimmicks Shields cardholders from misleading terms Empowers cardholders to set limits on their credit Requires card companies to fairly credit and allocate payments Prohibits card companies from imposing excessive fees on cardholders Prevents card companies from giving subprime credit cards to people who can't afford them Requires Congress to provide better oversight of the credit card industry Contains NO rate caps, fee setting, or price controls The bill now goes to the Senate for consideration. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
04.23.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cleaver, II is proud to announce that the City of Kansas City, Missouri through its Parks and Recreation Department has been awarded a $350,000 grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to study and plan for the development of a Climate Sustainability Center. The Center is to be located east of Troost at Volker Boulevard and signals a significant federal investment in an anchor project for what is now known as the Green Impact Zone. The grant includes a local match for the Center study and is part of the ongoing revitalization of the Brush Creek Corridor and a continuation of the “Cleaver Plan” through the addition of a unique, cutting edge “green” facility. The award of a planning grant puts the project in line for a potential construction grant from the EDA. “I cannot think of a more exciting place to be than right here, right now. There is nothing like this project anywhere in the country and I am proud it could be sited east of Troost. We have an opportunity to both change the way the world thinks about green and change the way we have historically seen the east side,” said Cleaver. “Along this corridor, some of the world’s most brilliant minds are working on some of the most difficult problems. Side by side are the Midwest Research Institute, the Kauffman Foundation and the Stowers Institute for bio-research. This is our opportunity to push that innovation and energy east of Troost and focus on the great global challenge of our time,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. “We are pleased to be a partner in this project with the EDA as we take a comprehensive approach to making the green economy of the future a reality in a distressed portion of the City. We are excited to be a part of a model that cities around the nation are watching,” said John Fierro, President of the Parks and Recreation Board of Commissioners. The Center’s mission will be to harness the talent and ingenuity of Kansas City to develop a sustainable workforce for green jobs, environmentally-friendly applications and products, and research for the 21st Century. As such, the Center will constitute a significant partnership between the University of Missouri at Kansas City, the area’s corporate, institutional and labor communities, and the City of Kansas City. Championed by Congressman Cleaver, the Center is envisioned to have three components: Education/Job Training – The curriculum, including classroom, laboratory and work shop programs will be established by the job providers and educational partners.The programs will provide hands-on training and employment opportunity services to students and graduates. Research – The Center will provide educational, research, and laboratory studies for the study of climate change and development of environmentally friendly applications and products that reduce our carbon footprint. A green small business incubator will also be part of the Center. Botanic Garden – A cutting-edge, hands-on Botanical Garden will provide opportunity for botanists, horticulturists, scientists, students and the public to cultivate, categorize, document and tend to a wide variety of plants native to the area and to focus on climate-friendly agriculture techniques and processes for farmers and related small businesses. Just as exciting as the work being done inside the facility is the proposed building itself. The Center is envisioned to go beyond LEED platinum and be a “Living Campus.” The Center will generate its own electricity, perform on-site storm water collection for reuse or treatment through green practices. Green building technological features such as roof photovoltaic panels for generation of electricity, natural ventilation, and a building design which optimizes solar exposure will make the Center a one-of-a-kind, world class facility. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
04.02.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Claire McCaskill and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II yesterday introduced a pair of bills that establish a World War I Centennial Commission and dedicate the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri as a national memorial. “This bipartisan effort is a tribute to the 4 million men and women who sacrificed and risked their lives for the freedom we enjoy today,” said Bond. “For decades, Missouri has been home to the only museum in the country dedicated to telling the story of our World War I heroes, making this museum the site of our national memorial and the home base for the Centennial celebration just makes sense.” “The Liberty Memorial is something all Missourians can be deeply proud of and it deserves to be recognized as the National World War I Memorial,” McCaskill said. “All those who served and sacrificed in WWI earned this national acknowledgement, as did the people of Missouri who chose to so humbly honor those veterans with the construction and long term care of the Liberty Memorial.” “For more than 80 years hundreds of thousands of veterans of World War I, and their families, have come to the Liberty Memorial to remember lost friends and loved ones. Dedicated by the Supreme Allied Generals and consecrated by the President of the United States, the citizens of Missouri have long kept the sacred memory of those who sacrificed in the Great War," said Congressman Cleaver. “Like the sphinxes that guard the monument, I fear that some today are covering their eyes to the past. America needs reminded that the Liberty Memorial has served as the nation's monument to the honored dead of World War I since 1926, a time when the wounds were still fresh from the battlefield. Selecting another monument site does not honor the thousands who have cried and prayed for their loved ones in the shadow of the Liberty Memorial. These bills are for those no longer with us so that their monument stays forever where they built it - high on a hill in the heart of America.” Today, there is no nationally recognized memorial honoring the nearly 4 million Americans who served in World War I. However, Kansas City, Missouri has long been the home to the National World War I Museum, the only museum in the country solely dedicated to World War I. The bill introduced by Bond, McCaskill, and Cleaver will rename the memorial located at the museum – the Liberty Memorial – as the National World War I Memorial. As America approaches the 100th anniversary of World War I, the bipartisan group emphasized that it is important to establish a commission that will properly honor the Americans who sacrificed and risked their lives in the war. In response to this need, the bipartisan group also introduced a bill that creates a centennial commission based in Kansas City comprised of twenty-four members appointed from across the country. The commission will help organize businesses, and state and local governments to develop and execute centennial programs. Together, the pair bill of bills commemorating the veterans of World War I will make Kansas City a focal point in the planning and development of centennial activities. The renaming of the Liberty Memorial and centennial commission location is fitting as the city is already home to the national headquarters of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, a federally charted war veteran’s organization of 1.6 million members. Both bills are supported by the entire Missouri delegation. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
03.12.2009	Today, Congressman Cleaver, II won House approval of an amendment that would designate 20% of the $2.4 billion dollars devoted to funding municipal Combined and Sanitary Sewer Overflow plans in the Water Quality Investment Act of 2009 (H.R. 1262), to green solutions. “I am proud to add a provision in the manager’s amendment that will ensure that no less than 20 percent of the billions in grant funds made available by this bill for sewer overflow control will be spent on projects that incorporate green infrastructure approaches and practices. I believe this strikes a reasonable balance between green infrastructure and traditional control systems, as both have a role in creating a sustainable and workable solution to sewer overflows,” said Congressman Cleaver to his colleagues on the Floor of the House. Chairman James Oberstar (MN-08) of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Chairwoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-03) of the Water Resources & Environment Subcommittee agreed to incorporate Congressman Cleaver’s amendment into the manager’s amendment offered on the Floor of the House. Inclusion in the manager’s amendment increased the chances of passage. “I would like to thank Chairman Oberstar and Chairwoman Bernice Johnson for embracing this amendment and advocating for its inclusion in the bill. Their help was crucial in achieving passage of this important measure,” said Cleaver. In order to comply with the Clean Water Act of 1972, the City of Kansas City has developed a plan that will cost $1.2 billion over 25 years. The Combined Sewer Overflow plan represents the largest capital project the city has ever undertaken. Last May, Congressman Cleaver urged the Mayor and City Council to adopt the “greenest plan possible.” “When I encouraged the City to include more ‘green’ solutions in its Combined Sewer Overflow Plan, I promised the City that the path to ‘green’ would yield more opportunities for federal funding. This is the first step in keeping that promise,” said Congressman Cleaver. “I said I would fight tooth-and-nail for money if the City advanced the vision of a healthier, more sustainable and greener future. This amendment makes Kansas City’s commitment to green pay off with a better chance at millions of federal dollars. I would like to thank the Kansas City Council, and particularly the hard work of Councilwoman Jan Marcason, for leading the City towards a greener future.” “Kansas City has projects that are underway, including the largest green demonstration project in the country. I am pleased Kansas City is out front and other cities across the nation will be able to benefit from our research on green strategies. We are committed to doing this giant project in a way that generations of Kansas Citians can be proud of and Congressman Cleaver’s efforts with this amendment will do a great deal to help us achieve that goal,” said Councilwoman Marcason. The Water Quality Investment Act of 2009 (H.R. 1262), including the Cleaver Amendment, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 317 to 101 and now moves to the Senate for approval. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
03.11.2009	Congressman Cleaver, II introduced an amendment that proposed an innovative and unique solution to help budget strapped Jackson County. The amendment had the potential of contributing nearly $10 million ($9,596,611.61) to improvements and maintenance at Blue Springs, Longview Lakes. The Cleaver amendment was one of 25 amendments to H.R. 1262, the Water Quality Investment Act of 2009 considered by the Rules Committee. Ultimately the Rules Committee ruled the amendment out of order. The two lakes, while operated by Jackson County Parks and Recreation are actually leased from the Corps of Engineers for a period of 50 years. In short, the amendment ordered that half of the County’s future payments to the Corp of Engineers be redirected to capitol improvements, flood control, maintenance and upkeep on the properties. Even with the redirection, the plan would provide the Army Corps with over $6.5 million ($6,504.447.80) in surplus over cost during the remaining course of the lease. From this reinvestment, Longview Lake would receive $5.3 million ($5, 294, 483.88) of redirected payments and Blue Springs Lake would receive $4.3 million ($4,302,127.74) as part of the plan. “This idea is a win-win. The Corp of Engineers is fully reimbursed for its initial outlay of funds with interest, and the County gets to re-invest some of the funds it is contractually obligated to pay into these two great Jackson County assets,” said Congressman Cleaver, “The Rules Committee may have ruled this attempt out of order but I am going to keep trying. The idea makes a great deal of sense and I look forward to working with County Executive Sanders as we continue to fight to make it work.” “We have been working very closely with Congressman Cleaver and his staff on this proposed plan,” said Jackson County Executive Mike Sanders, “We appreciate the time and commitment that the Congressman has put forth on behalf of the citizens of Jackson County. We are hopeful that his continued effort on this creative and equitable plan will succeed; the results of which, will be seen and enjoyed at Blue Springs Lake, Longview Lake and throughout our parks system for years to come.” Under the plan proposed by Congressman Cleaver: Longview Lake: Total Balance Remaining on the Lease: $10,588,967.77 With Amendment Total to be Paid to Corp: $12,962,357.10 Reinvestment in County with Amendment: $5,294,483.88 (50% of balance) Surplus to Army Corp Over Costs: $3,852,664.10 Blue Springs Lake: Total Balance Remaining on the Lease: $8,604,255.46 With Amendment Total to be Paid to Corp: $9,575,703.70 Reinvestment in County with Amendment: $4,302,127.73 (50% of balance) Surplus to Army Corp Over Costs: $2,651,783.70 Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
02.06.2009	As the deadlines for the short-term rescue package for the American auto industry loom, Congressman Cleaver will join the United Auto Workers and the Automobile Dealers Association at a “Save Our Jobs Rally.” The Rally will begin at 2 p.m., Sunday, February 8, 2009 at the Penn Valley Community College Gym, 3201 Southwest Trafficway in Kansas City, Mo. Thousands of residents from both sides of the state line will convene to stress the impact auto manufacturing has on the region. Congressman Dennis Moore (KS-3) and Missouri Governor Jay Nixon will lend their voices of support at the rally. “The global financial crisis is crippling the availability of credit for the automakers, their suppliers, their dealers and consumers,” said Congressman Cleaver. “As our local auto plants extend their work stoppages, it is quite possible one or more of the domestic automakers could collapse. No one can afford American auto makers going bankrupt, least of all the 7,200 men and women who work at the Fairfax and Claycomo plants, the thousands who work for auto dealers in the area or the tens of thousands of retirees. These are our neighbors, friends and family and they are in trouble.” “However frustrating things in Washington are right now, they pale in comparison to the insecurity, fear and anxiety being felt by millions of workers who are either standing in the unemployment line or looking for a pink slip with every paycheck. So, while we shake our heads and stomp our feet in the Capitol, our Congressional troubles are trivial compared to the peril faced by far too many we serve. We will hear from the families impacted directly by this terrible economy on Sunday,” said Cleaver. “Save Our Jobs Rally” Sunday, February 8, 2009 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. Penn Valley Community College Gym, 3201 Southwest Trafficway, Kansas City, Mo. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee, House Homeland Security Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
12.10.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II has introduced legislation prohibiting the sale and counterfeiting of inaugural tickets. The Clerk of the House has designated the bill H.R. 7312. The bill would make it unlawful to sell or attempt to sell tickets to the presidential inaugural swearing-in ceremony. The legislation also makes it illegal to create a fraudulent ticket or forge a ticket to the inauguration. Those who violate the law would face fines of up to $100,000 and possible imprisonment for up to one year. “The Presidential Inauguration is one of our nation’s most important Constitutional moments. At exactly noon on January 20, 2009 we will complete a peaceful transition of power envied around the world. This solemn moment of national pride should not be sullied by greed,” Congressman Cleaver said. “Our Democracy is not for sale, nor are its institutions and rituals. There are tickets for sale right now put up for auction by people who do not have them and will not get them — profiteering in the name of patriotism. “It is my hope that the House will take up this bill before adjourning for the holiday. I will notify those who will receive tickets from my office this week, and I want to be sure that when we tell our constituents the inaugural is free and open, it is in fact free and open,” said Cleaver. Tickets to the Inauguration of President-Elect Barack Obama are provided free of charge and allocated by Members of Congress. Tickets will not be distributed to Congressional offices until the week before the inauguration and will require in person pick-up with proper identification. As a warning, no websites or other ticket outlets have inaugural swearing-in tickets to sell, despite what they may claim. Thanks to the efforts of the Joint Committee on Inaugurations Ebay/StubHub have already announced it would not allow the sale of inaugural swearing-in ceremony tickets on any of its websites. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and First Vice-Chair-elect of the Congressional Black Caucus.
11.19.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today, at a press conference in Washington, D.C. the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) announced its leadership team for the 111th Congress. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II was unanimously chosen to serve as First Vice-Chair of the powerful group. Officers of the CBC serve two-year terms. With his elevation, Congressman Cleaver is position to become Chair of the Black Caucus in the next session of Congress. “I am honored to be selected by my colleagues to assist the new Chair, Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-9). Our Caucus has always been one of historic firsts, and in the next Congress we break new ground again as one of our members will be sworn in as President of the United States.” “I believe I bring a slightly different perspective to the Caucus because I do not represent a typical CBC district. My election to this new post is recognition that the challenges facing America affect us all regardless of race and it is more important than ever to reach beyond our historic voting blocs and work together to find solutions,” said Cleaver. “With an ‘A’ on the legislative report card issued annually by the National NAACP, I believe that my votes are in harmony with Black America,” continued Cleaver. “It is telling, however, that I also have received high marks from groups like the Children’s Defense Fund, the Disabled American Veterans and the Sierra Club. I think this demonstrates, contrary to conventional thinking, voting for issues important to black Americans is not out of tune with the non-African American voters of the Fifth Congressional District.” The Congressional Black Caucus was formed in 1969 when the 13 African-American members of the U.S. House of Representatives joined together to strengthen their efforts to address the legislative concerns of black and minority citizens. Currently, there are 42 members of the Congressional Black Caucus, not including the President-Elect who stepped down from his Senate seat last weekend. They represent many of the largest and most populated urban centers in the country, together with some of the most expansive and rural congressional districts in the nation. These members, now as in the past, have been called upon to work as advocates for America's varied constituent interests--developing an ever-expanding legislative agenda -- as well as addressing the concerns of their own particular districts. Along with Chairwoman Lee and First Vice Chair Cleaver the Caucus also elected Congresswoman Donna Christensen (D-VI) as Second Vice Chair, Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) as Secretary, and Congresswoman Yvette Clarke (D-NY) as Whip. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee and the Speaker’s Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Cleaver also serves as a Regional Whip of the Democratic Caucus and Second Vice-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
02.06.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II is proud to announce he has been appointed by the Speaker of the House to the newly created Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Established by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the Select Committee will raise the public’s awareness on the critical issues facing the global environment. “Protecting and preserving our global environment is something I have been passionate about for years,” Cleaver said. “I am proud not only to be asked, but to serve on the Select Committee. For decades, we have created and relied on energy sources, which not only have made our nation close to becoming absolutely dependent on foreign oil, but have put our planet in real danger. There are hard choices that need to be made, and the United States, is very late to the table,” Cleaver said. Speaker Pelosi explained to the U.S. Conference of Mayors that she would appoint one of their own, former Kansas City Mayor Emanuel Cleaver, to work with them on this serious issue. “With his values and experience, global warming will be an issue that is as local as neighborhoods in your cities, and as global as all of God’s creation,” Pelosi said of the ordained United Methodist pastor. Evangelical Environmentalist have, recently, become interested in the planets health and the need for better stewardship. Congressman Cleaver has been charged by the Speaker with reaching out to mayors across the country and involving the faith community in this national and international discussion on global warming. Earlier this year, Cleaver reintroduced the “Congress Leads by Example through Alternative-Fuel Resources Act” or CLEAR Act. This legislation would prohibit the use of official funds from Members’ Representational Allowances to lease any passenger vehicle, which does not use alternative fuels. The CLEAR Act is now H.R. 277 in the House. The Select Committee will be used to gather information and background to protect America’s national security by examining our country’s dependence on foreign oil. Additionally, the Select Committee will serve as a fact finder. It will help shape legislation by having hearings to examine the most pressing environmental issues, new green technologies, and focus innovation to cease and repair our nation’s environment. “Already, scientists are predicting this year will be the warmest year in our planet’s history. This comes after the last 5 years have been the hottest ever recorded. Our nation must act now, not just for ourselves, but for our children and grandchildren. We cannot let our inconvenient truth become their tragic reality,” Cleaver said. “Now is the time to roll up our sleeves. I am honored by the appointment and am ready to get to work.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri's Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee.
01.31.2007	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II will host the 55th Annual National Prayer Breakfast at the Washington Hilton in Washington, D.C. tomorrow. Guests will include President Bush and the First Lady, members of the President’s Cabinet, the Justices of the Supreme Court, and Members of Congress. Cleaver has served as the Co-Chair of the House of Representatives’ weekly prayer meetings and was nominated last year to host the 2007 National Breakfast. The breakfast draws nearly 4,000 guests from around the world and is privately funded every year by the Fellowship Foundation. The heads of state from 22 nations have already confirmed their attendance to an already over capacity event. Despite being a Christian-sponsored event, representatives from the world’s great religions will also be on hand. “It is a great honor to be asked to Chair this amazing event. I regret that my Co-Chair, Jo Ann Davis, is a bit under the weather and unable to join me in hosting this event. My sincere hope is to make it inclusive and exciting to all faiths. Prayer is a universal language, and I hope the Prayer Breakfast brings people together to celebrate what we have in common.” Cleaver said. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri's Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee.
01.30.2007	Today, Congressman Cleaver, II, as he begins his second term, has been re-appointed to the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. The Financial Services Committee will forward the Congressman’s name to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who will make the selection official in the Democratic Caucus meeting. A seat on the Financial Services Committee is a highly sought after post in the House of Representatives. Representative Cleaver said, “I am extremely pleased to be re-appointed to the House Committee on Financial Services. I look forward to working with the new Chairman, my friend, Barney Frank, to use our new majority to accomplish great things for our nation and the people of Missouri’s Fifth District.” The House Committee on Financial Services is an exclusive assignment, meaning that a member with a seat on the committee is prohibited from joining another committee without a special waiver. The Committee has jurisdiction over such wide ranging issues as securities, insurance, banking, and housing. The Committee also oversees the work of the Federal Reserve Bank, the U.S. Treasury, the Securities Exchange Commission, and other financial services regulators. Congressman Cleaver was re-appointed to the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity as well as the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. The Congressman has also been newly appointed to the Financial Institutions Consumer Credit Subcommittee. “The Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity is near and dear to my heart. Growing up in public housing in Wichita Falls, Texas, I think I bring a unique perspective to the oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The Secretary of HUD is responsible for 1.3 million public housing units across our country, which provide shelter to millions of our nation’s families. For me, moving to public housing provided access to public schools and more opportunities. That is not the case for so many anymore,” said Cleaver. “My new Subcommittee assignment on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit is important for our District. We are the national headquarters for American Century, UMB, H&R Block, and Commerce Bank. Missouri’s Fifth District is a critical player in the nation’s financial system. I am certain this assignment reflects our community’s important role in maintaining and promoting our nation’s financial health.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri's Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee.
01.30.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Cleaver, II, as he begins his second term, has been re-appointed to the exclusive House Financial Services Committee. The Financial Services Committee will forward the Congressman’s name to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who will make the selection official in the Democratic Caucus meeting. A seat on the Financial Services Committee is a highly sought after post in the House of Representatives. Representative Cleaver said, “I am extremely pleased to be re-appointed to the House Committee on Financial Services. I look forward to working with the new Chairman, my friend, Barney Frank, to use our new majority to accomplish great things for our nation and the people of Missouri’s Fifth District.” The House Committee on Financial Services is an exclusive assignment, meaning that a member with a seat on the committee is prohibited from joining another committee without a special waiver. The Committee has jurisdiction over such wide ranging issues as securities, insurance, banking, and housing. The Committee also oversees the work of the Federal Reserve Bank, the U.S. Treasury, the Securities Exchange Commission, and other financial services regulators. Congressman Cleaver was re-appointed to the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity as well as the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. The Congressman has also been newly appointed to the Financial Institutions Consumer Credit Subcommittee. “The Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity is near and dear to my heart. Growing up in public housing in Wichita Falls, Texas, I think I bring a unique perspective to the oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The Secretary of HUD is responsible for 1.3 million public housing units across our country, which provide shelter to millions of our nation’s families. For me, moving to public housing provided access to public schools and more opportunities. That is not the case for so many anymore,” said Cleaver. “My new Subcommittee assignment on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit is important for our District. We are the national headquarters for American Century, UMB, H&R Block, and Commerce Bank. Missouri’s Fifth District is a critical player in the nation’s financial system. I am certain this assignment reflects our community’s important role in maintaining and promoting our nation’s financial health.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri's Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee.
01.24.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation that would increase the size of the 435-member House on most matters by giving votes to Delegates from four U.S. territories and the District of Columbia. Congressman Cleaver, who was designated by the Speaker of the House to preside over the Chamber, was in the Chair to announce the vote. “The yea’s are 228 the nays are 188 the motion to reconsider is laid on the table and agreed to without objection.” And with that, the House moved to the final vote to grant the delegates a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives. The proposal allows the elected members from Washington, D.C., American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands a vote when the House sits in the “Committee of the Whole,” a parliamentary device used during most of the debate, and while amending and voting on legislation. Four of the members involved are Democrats, and one, the resident commissioner from Puerto Rico, is a Republican. The idea is not new, but sadly, it is still controversial. Democrats put it in place in 1993-94, marking the first increase in the House's voting membership since it was expanded to 435 in 1913 after the 1910 census. The expansion has survived court challenges to its constitutionality, but Republicans abolished voting rights for the territories' members when they took over the House in 1995. Democrats have vowed ever since to bring back these territories voice in our democracy. “They are members, and they and their constituents should be allowed to have their voices heard,” said Cleaver, “They represent five million people who do not have a voice in a government that is supposed to represent them.” “We have five people here sent by their constituents to the House but (who) do not have an opportunity to express their view in a public way,” Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said on the House floor last Friday. “The five get to vote in committees and can participate in floor debates, but without the rule change have no vote.” Under the proposal, the five would normally be allowed to vote, but if any vote falls within a five-vote margin, the Committee of the Whole would adjourn and the regular 435-member House would vote again. This requirement helps meet the constitutional objections that were raised in the early 1990s. “This strikes home to those of us in the Fifth District. We lost a young man last fall that lived in Independence who called American Samoa his home. That tiny territory has the highest per capita casualty rate in Iraq of any other State,” said Cleaver. “Residents of these territories are fighting and dying for our country. We owe them a voice in Congress.” Speaker Nancy Pelosi has also promised to push separate legislation to give the District of Columbia permanent, full voting status in the House. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri's Fifth Congressional District, which includes Kansas City, Independence, Lee's Summit, Raytown, Grandview, Sugar Creek, Belton, Raymore and Peculiar, Missouri. He is a member of the exclusive House Financial Services Committee.
02.02.2006	Washington D.C. — The 2007 Annual National Prayer Breakfast will be co-chaired by U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO). Only a freshman Representative, Cleaver has served since his election in 2004 as Secretary of the House’s weekly prayer meetings. “It is a great honor to be asked to chair this amazing event. Though I am a Methodist minister, my sincere hope is to make it inclusive and exciting to all faiths. Prayer is a universal language, and I will do everything I can to make it an event that brings people together to celebrate what we have in common.” Cleaver said. Congressman Cleaver’s selection as co-chair comes as his efforts to promote civility in Congress have begun to receive national attention. Cleaver will chair the event with Congresswoman Jo Ann Davis (R-VA) and guests will include the President, Vice President, members of the Cabinet and members of both the House and Senate. The breakfast draws nearly 4,000 guests from around the world and is privately funded every year by the Fellowship Foundation. Presidents from Dwight D. Eisenhower to George W. Bush have attended, along with members of Congress and world leaders. This year, King Abdullah II of Jordan was in attendance and the keynote address was delivered by Bono, of the band U2. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District and a member of the House Financial Services Committee.
01.31.2006	I am excited to be in Washington to witness for the second time the State of the Union. This is a uniquely American event --- required in the genius of the Constitution --- not as spectacle, but as an act of reverence. "He shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient." Our founders wanted the Chief Executive to come and report to the people…and so tonight I am honored to take part in this amazing American tradition. With me tonight is my father, Lucky, and wife Dianne. The floor of the Congress is a long way from the dirt floor of my first home. I am proud to have my dad here with me. Tonight the President has been optimistic, and rightly so. In my 30 years of work as a minister and in public service, I have never ceased to be awestruck by the spirit and optimism of the American people. I am optimistic in the American people, but I cannot be optimistic at the expense of reality. Tonight we face serious challenges, and those challenges require serious bipartisan solutions. America is stronger when our communities are stronger. The President is committed to making tax cuts for the richest one percent permanent. That plan will make local program cuts permanent --- programs important to all Americans. There are trade offs for being so generous to those who are so wealthy. Every dollar that is given to millionaires is a dollar that will be cut in our communities. Since the last time the President reported on the State of the Union he has cut Community Development Block Grants by 20 percent. These cuts have a direct affect on our communities. The Community Development Block Grant program allows local government the ability to fund programs most important to building community. Housing stock, pre-school programs, health care Initiatives, homeless assistance programs were all funded by this money prior to the cuts. As a former mayor I have a great deal of sympathy for those trying to build our community while the federal government is stripping the tools they need. Last year Kansas City’s murder rate hit record levels, the President has cut funding to the COPS program by 86 percent. That means less money to hire more police. In fact, the President has proposed to eliminate the program all together this year. Without the COPS program, Kansas City will have to cut the number of police on the street --- just when we need them most. It is hard to talk about homeland security when our neighborhoods are not secure. The President has proposed tax cuts for those who have made it --- aid cuts for those just starting out. Last fall I held a Town Hall meeting at UMKC to talk to students about federal aid cuts. The students were rightfully upset. They are doing exactly what our community needs them to do---they are going to college to become, teachers, doctors, nurses, social workers, businessmen and women of the future. They are doing their part-but our government is not doing its part. Not everyone can afford college and it is getting more expensive every year. These students are not looking for a hand out. This is an investment in our community's future. The President is cutting assistance to those who need help paying their home heating bills, while giving assistance big oil companies. In a time when our students are struggling to compete in a global economy, we are cutting programs that help them get through school. While talking about homeland security, we are cutting the number of police officers on the street. The reality does not match the rhetoric. We cannot just keep talking about out important priorities --- we have to actually make them a priority. The first step to addressing the issues facing the American people is to talk to each other. I am glad the President mentioned civility in his speech. The tone of Washington is something I have been working to change since I arrived. If the President is serious about changing the mean-spirited atmosphere of Washington he will find a friend in me. Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District and a member of the House Financial Services Committee
01.26.2006	Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II, will hold a community Town Hall on Thursday, January 26, 2006 at the Mohart Multipurpose Center, 3200 Wayne, Kansas City, Missouri 64109 at 7:00 p.m. The Town Hall will focus on the important issue of the President’s use of domestic surveillance. “Keeping America safe is not an easy task but it is critical. How do we balance the needs of national security while protecting civil liberties? It is a fundamental freedom for citizens of our nation to talk and reflect on the challenges facing all of us. This Town Hall will provide constituents an opportunity to engage in a civil dialog about how we as a community feel about the President’s authorization of domestic surveillance. There is fiery rhetoric on both sides of this issue, but I hope that this meeting can help raise the level of constructive dialog so that together we can discuss the delicate balance between national security and liberty,” said Congressman Cleaver. The forum will feature noted local Constitutional scholars: William George Eckhardt, Clinical Professor of Law and Director of Urban Affairs Outreach, University of Missouri Kansas City-School of Law. Professor Eckhardt is a retired Colonel in the Army Judge Advocate General's Corps. In his thirty years of military service he served as Chief Prosecutor in the My Lai Cases. He was Legal Advisor to the United States European Command in the Gulf War. Professor Eckhardt served as Director of National Security Legal Issues and holder of the Dwight David Eisenhower Chair of National Security at the United States Army War College. Professor Eckhardt is a graduate of the University of Virginia School of Law. David Gottlieb, joined the University of Kansas law faculty in 1979. He served as director of the Paul E. Wilson Defender Project, 1979-1999, and as Director of Clinical Programs, 1995-1999. He teaches criminal law and criminal procedure. He is a nationally recognized expert in criminal law, particularly the law of sentencing. An outstanding teacher, he received the law school's Immel Award for Teaching Excellence in 1992. He has served as a consultant on clinical legal education in the United States and abroad, most recently in the Ukraine, Bulgaria and Turkey. Professor Gottlieb is a graduate of the Georgetown University Law Center. The panel will provide a balanced discussion examining both sides of this controversial issue. The floor will be open for members of the community to join in the conversation, ask questions and express their opinions. This Town Hall follows the President’s visit to Manhattan, Kansas this week where he briefly spoke to the issue of wiretapping. “I appreciate the President touching on his views surrounding the issue of domestic spying today at K-State, but it is not enough to make statements solely to your supporters. Part of leadership is listening to all sides. This is a serious issue, it is important we have a serious and balanced discussion," said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II. Directions: To get to the Mohart (formerly Linwood) Multipurpose Center take Paseo to 33rd, then turn east one block to Wayne. Wayne is one way north. Secure parking is located on right (south side of the facility). Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District and a member of the House Financial Services Committee
01.25.2006	Kansas City, Mo. -- As part of his commitment to speak to students at every high school in the Fifth Congressional District, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II will teach civics at Lee’s Summit High School, at 7:35 a.m. on Thursday, January 26, 2006. "I always enjoy getting to share my experiences in Congress to students who are learning about our government. Politics in practice is different than politics in theory, and these visits provide an opportunity for students to ask questions and express their thoughts about our nation's future. So many times we take young people for granted, but I have found in each of the high schools I have visited the students are full of very thoughtful questions and ideas. The future is theirs." Congressman Cleaver hopes his visits inspire a younger generation to be an active part of their community. "I really enjoy this part of the job — perhaps a few of these students will look back and remember a visit from their Congressman as the spark that made them get involved in public service." Who: Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) What: The Congressman will guest teach a civics class and answer questions from students When: Thursday, January 26, 2006 at 7:35 a.m. (class will last 50 minutes) Where: Lee's Summit North High School, 901 NE Douglas, Lee's Summit, MO 64086 Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District and a member of the House Financial Services Committee
01.23.2006	Kansas City, Mo. -- As part of his pledge to speak to students at every high school in the Fifth Congressional District, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II will teach civics at Lone Jack High School, at 9 a.m. Wednesday, January 25. “I always enjoy getting to share what it is like in Washington to students who are learning about their government. Politics in practice is different than politics in theory, and these visits provide an opportunity for students to ask questions and express their thoughts about the nation’s future. So many times we take young people for granted, but I have found in each of the high schools I have visited the students are full of very thoughtful questions and ideas. The future is theirs.” Congressman Cleaver hopes his visits inspire a younger generation to be an active part of their community. “I really enjoy this part of the job — perhaps a few of these students will look back and remember a visit from their Congressman as the spark that made them get involved in their government.” Who: Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05) will be joined by Lone Jack High School’s juniors and seniors What: The Congressman will guest teach a civics class and answer questions from students When: Wednesday, January 25, 2006 at 9 a.m. Where: Lone Jack High School, 201 West Lee’s Summit Road, Lone Jack, MO 64070 Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District and a member of the House Financial Services Committee
12.19.2005	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II announced that he has secured $1 million in federal funding for University of Missouri-Kansas City to start an Orthopedic Trauma Research Center. The funds were included in the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, passed by both chambers early this morning. The measure now awaits the President’s signature. “The University of Missouri is grateful to Congressman Cleaver for securing funds to establish a new Orthopedic Trauma Research Center at UMKC. The center will help UMKC enhance its reputation as a leader in the life sciences and as a vital partner with Kansas City,” said Elson Floyd, President of the University of Missouri system. “We look forward to the innovative research and discoveries that have great potential to improve the health, security and survival of U.S. military personnel.” The UMKC Orthopedic Trauma Research Center will work along side the U.S. Army’s Institute of Surgical Research’s Combat Casualty Care Research Program to develop new technologies for the treatment of severe bone fractures. These new methods will improve the healing and recovery rates of soldiers suffering from severe fractures and other bone injuries incurred on the battlefield. Bone trauma represents 60-70 percent of combat injuries. “We are proud to have UMKC play such a vital role in rehabilitating our brave men and women in uniform,” said Congressman Cleaver. “Members of the armed services sacrifice every day; we owe them the very best medical care both in the field and at home. These funds will help UMKC find new ways to speed the recovery and improve the health of injured soldiers. I am excited that this important work will be done here in Kansas City.” This award also furthers community-wide efforts to position the area as the nation’s leader in life science research and development. “This award helps further the cause of economic development in Kansas City.” Bob Marcusse President and CEO of the Kansas City Area Development Council, “Building on strengths is a great strategy and Congressman Cleaver and UMKC are to be congratulated for together they will have an impact that goes far beyond the dollars themselves.” The funds will be used for needed research and surgical equipment, additional research staff, the development of new bone fixator technologies, and clinical trials. “As one of the nation’s leading research institutions in bone biology, UMKC greatly appreciates Congressman Cleaver’s advocacy for our proposed Orthopedic Trauma Research Center,” said UMKC Interim Chancellor Steve Lehmkuhle. “Government funding is critical for the Center to achieve its most urgent purpose of treating U.S. soldiers who sustain life-threatening bone injuries on the battlefield.” Emanuel Cleaver, II is the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District and a member of the House Financial Services Committee.
