12.11.2018	Also Speaks on Current Russian Aggression in Ukraine WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement after the House passed a resolution he authored that remembers the victims and survivors of the 1932-33 Ukraine Famine, known as Holodomor. “I was privileged to be in Ukraine for the commemoration of the 1932-33 Ukrainian Famine, known as Holodomor. Millions in Ukraine died because of this genocide perpetrated by the Soviet Union. “At the commemoration in Ukraine, there was special mention of the Holodomor Memorial in Washington, D.C. “The passage of this resolution, which reminds the world of Holodomor, is another reflection of the basic values of the American people.” --- In addition, today Rep. Levin spoke on a separate resolution addressing recent Russian aggression against Ukraine. Below are his comments, as prepared, related to that resolution: “I applaud the leadership of this committee, Mr. Royce and Mr. Engel, for bringing up this resolution. “The Congressional Ukraine Caucus Co-chairs – Representatives Marcy Kaptur, Andy Harris, Brian Fitzpatrick, and I – issued this statement rebuking the Russian Federation’s aggressive attack on Ukraine near the Kerch Strait in the Sea of Azov: “’As co-chairs of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, we strongly condemn Russia’s dangerous naval assault on Ukrainian ships. This episode, as well as Russia’s blockade of Ukrainian ports, is a deeply disturbing sign of continued Russian aggression in its efforts to tighten its bloody grip and illegitimate occupation of the Crimean peninsula. “’We join the international community and our NATO allies in resolute affirmation of the fact that Crimea and its surrounding waters belong to Ukraine. We call on Russian authorities, in accordance with international law, to cease any and all interference with access to Ukrainian ports and the Azov Sea. Russia must end this bloody and unjust occupation of Ukrainian sovereign territory.’ “I was in Ukraine at the time of the Russian attack. “I was at meetings where the president of Ukraine spoke out clearly against the Russian action on behalf of the people of Ukraine. “He also spoke out on what was the main aim of Russia’s military actions – to undermine Ukraine’s efforts to build democracy. “Today, there is a dangerous tilt to authoritarianism in many places around the world. This makes Ukraine’s struggle to resist aggression, safeguard its independence, and develop democracy all the more important. Ukraine has witnessed firsthand that the challenges of democracy are not easily overcome. That makes it all the more important to overcome the threats to democracy, such as injustice and corruption. The United States must support Ukraine in its efforts. “We must deepen our determination to help the fight for freedom and democracy, never making heroes out of dictators. That is what this resolution is all about.” ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) delivered remarks on the House Floor during consideration of H.Res.1091. --- (Remarks as Prepared) Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution calling for the release of the two journalists imprisoned after investigating attacks against the Rohingya ethnic minority in Burma, also known as Myanmar. As I said in the resolution I introduced in early September calling for their release, ‘the Burmese police captain involved in their arrest reportedly admitted during the trial that his superior ordered him to entrap the journalists.” The atrocities committed against the Rohingya – mass killings, rape perpetrated on a massive scale, whole villages burned to the ground with people being burned alive in their homes, and over 700,000 fleeing the violence to neighboring Bangladesh – has been so extreme that the United Nations issued a report earlier this year calling for Burma’s military leaders to be investigated and prosecuted on the charges of genocide. There can be no doubt about the culpability of Burma’s military in the oppression and violence inflicted on the Rohingya. I had the privilege of meeting Aung San Suu Kyi a few years ago as part of a delegation led by Nancy Pelosi, joining in admiration for her perseverance and triumph over oppression. There has been a hesitation by some to criticize Suu Kyi, worrying that it could make it more likely the military would take over the civilian government she leads. But her words and actions – in the face of what in reality has been genocide – have been deeply disturbing, contrary to her past example as a beacon of freedom. In 2017, the late John McCain and Richard Durbin introduced in the Senate and I introduced in the House a resolution that encouraged “Aung San Suu Kyi to live up to her inspiring words upon receiving the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize with respect to ethnic reconciliation in Burma, and in particular to address the historic and brutal repression of the Rohingya in Rakhine State.” Unfortunately, that resolution was not acted on. When Aung San Suu Kyi later said that “we believe that for the sake of long-term stability and security, we have to be fair to all sides,” it was a disturbing message of minimisation. Suu Kyi later said, “In a way we can say that we understand our country better than any other country does and I’m sure you will say the same of yours, that you understand your country better than anybody else.” As Bishop Desmond Tutu said in a letter to Suu Kyi, “my dear sister: If the political price of your ascension to the highest office in Myanmar is your silence, the price is surely too steep.” This resolution speaks out against the “genocide and crimes against humanity that occurred in Rakhine State.” All of humanity must speak out clearly and decisively. I urge unanimous support for this resolution. --- Rep. Levin has been outspoken regarding the treatment of the Rohingya and the imprisonment of journalists covering the atrocities. ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding the planned signing of the renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): “The fatal flaw of the original NAFTA signed 25 years ago – the lack of assured and real labor reform in Mexico – remains the major weakness of the new NAFTA, or USMCA, being signed tomorrow. The agreement fails to forcefully and directly address, in language and in practice, this fundamental issue. Failing that, it will only lock in the status quo of massive outsourcing to Mexico for decades to come and its consequences. “Under NAFTA, Mexico sought to attract foreign capital by keeping workers’ wages at rock bottom levels through the denial of basic labor rights. Mexico now has close to the lowest worker pay in the entire industrial world – lower than even China. This not only denied Mexican workers a path to the middle class, but also suppressed wages and took jobs from U.S. workers, especially in auto manufacturing and parts. “The election of new leadership in Mexico provides that, after 25 years of a trade agreement built on the lowest economic common denominator, there is hope that there will be real change. But hope must become reality in the daily lives of workers. The initial breakthrough of the May 10th provision on labor standards must lead to a dramatic change in the status quo. “Mexico’s industrial policy of suppressed wages must be dismantled. This means direct steps to end Mexico’s thousands of so-called protection contracts, signed without the support or even the knowledge of workers, as well as other key reforms must take place before the U.S. Congress votes on any new NAFTA. And there must be strong assurances of continued, vigorous enforcement. Indirect efforts, such as new rules of origin, will simply not get the job done. “Anything less would be a grave injustice to American workers and likely a dead-end in a new Democratic House of Representatives.” ###
11.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to General Motors’ announced plans to stop production at 5 of its plants, including one in Warren, MI: “The recent General Motors announcement must serve as a major wake up call - for the entire nation, not only workers. “The GM announcement highlights the grievous flaw in the old NAFTA, which remains with the new one as currently negotiated. “Mexico’s persistent, suppressed low wages of a few dollars per hour caused a major outsourcing of vehicle and supplier production to Mexico, suppressing American wages and creating job loss. “A signing of the new NAFTA as negotiated and implemented to date will only bake in the old NAFTA for another 30 years, absent dramatic new changes in law and in practice. Not changes in rules of origin or loose talk about tariffs. “The outsourcing over the years to Mexico involved trucks and SUVs and their components, now the major source of American purchases for passenger vehicles. “The failure to act on our past pleas to face up to this reality will hopefully now be heard and acted on by responsible parties.” Rep. Levin has continually pressed for real labor reform in Mexico. ###
11.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressional Ukraine Caucus Chairs, Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Andy Harris (R-MD), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) issued a statement rebuking the Russian Federation’s aggressive attack on Ukraine near the Kerch Strait in the Sea of Azov: “As co-chairs of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, we strongly condemn Russia’s dangerous naval assault on Ukrainian ships. This episode, as well as Russia’s blockade of Ukrainian ports, is a deeply disturbing sign of continued Russian aggression in its efforts to tighten its bloody grip and illegitimate occupation of the Crimean peninsula. “We join the international community and our NATO allies in resolute affirmation of the fact that Crimea and its surrounding waters belong to Ukraine. We call on Russian authorities, in accordance with international law, to cease any and all interference with access to Ukrainian ports and the Azov Sea. Russia must end this bloody and unjust occupation of Ukrainian sovereign territory.” Six soldiers were injured and three Ukrainian naval ships, along with the crew members, were captured. Read more about the attack here. ###
11.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) delivered remarks during a special plenary session of the Ukrainian Parliament commemorating the 85th Anniversary of the Ukraine Famine-Genocide, known as the Holodomor. Rep. Levin is a co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. He authored legislation that facilitated the creation of the Holodomor Memorial in Washington, D.C. near the U.S. Capitol. He is the lead sponsor of H.Res.931, which raises awareness of the Holodomor. The following are his remarks before the Ukrainian Parliament, as prepared: --- (Remarks As Prepared) Many decades ago, when I was at college, I read a book about the Soviet Union. I found the book an overall exoneration of the Soviet Union’s lack of democracy and its embrace of authoritarianism. What literally jumped off the page for me was treatment of a subject that was new to me—the famine of 1932-1933 in Ukraine. The author claimed that the stories of the famine were exaggerated – suggesting that there were “many fewer millions” of lives lost than had been said by others. This dangerously dismissive and insensitive language stayed etched in my memory throughout the years. It stayed with me as part of a Congressional delegation visiting Sarajevo, Serbia and Croatia and meeting with President Slobodan Milosevic. It stayed with me when Elie Wiesel urged President Clinton not to forget Bosnia. In 1992, my Congressional district included an area with a large Ukrainian American community. The relationships that I developed and the conversations that we engaged in on a wide range of issues over two decades were vital to my work in Congress. What ensued was the formation of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus in 1997. It allowed Members of Congress from around the country with a special interest in Ukraine to join together and work together on issues important to Ukraine and the Ukrainian-American relationship. I remember vividly joining the protest at the Ukrainian Embassy in Washington during the Orange Revolution, when the government then in power overturned the democratic vote in Ukraine. It also was a remarkable experience to join the protest rally outside the Ukrainian Cultural Center in Warren, MI during the Revolution of Dignity, the fifth anniversary of which also is being acknowledged these days. Those experiences and many others that I shared with the Ukrainian American community over these past four decades inspired me to introduce the resolution in Congress—a long effort—that led to the building of the magnificent monument to Holodomor in Washington. This touching monument located so prominently near the United States Capitol is an important acknowledgement of this terrible stain in global history and a vital learning experience for generations to come. Holodomor is a reminder of the value of democracy. The truth about the famine was suppressed by the totalitarian Soviet regime. One of the advantages of democracy is that there are more ways for the truth to be brought out, and fewer barriers to overcome. Holodomor is both a cry for freedom and a cry against authoritarianism. As Winston Churchill said, “No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise.” He went on to say that “Democracy is the worst form of government but it’s better than all other forms.” Democracy can sure be very messy, but its goal can be far better than a worst form of government. Today, there is a dangerous tilt to authoritarianism in many places around the world. This makes Ukraine’s struggle to resist aggression, safeguard its independence, and develop democracy all the more important. Holodomor was a weapon of a dictator against the Ukrainian people; such a tragedy should deepen our determination to fight for freedom and democracy, rather than make heroes out of dictators. Ukraine has witnessed firsthand that the challenges of democracy are not easily overcome. That makes it all the more important to overcome the threats to democracy, such as injustice and corruption. The United States must support Ukraine in its efforts. It was deeply painful but essential to read the stories in Anne Applebaum’s new book Red Famine—Stalin’s War on Ukraine. She told how Ukrainian peasants were forced “to make a fatal choice. They could give up their grain reserves and die of starvation or they could keep some grain reserves hidden and risk arrest, execution, or the confiscation of their food—after which they would also die of starvation.” She described this poignant memory of one person: “The mothers with babies in their arms made the strongest impression... I remember seeing one such mother who looked more like a shadow than a human being. She was standing by the side of the road, and her little skeleton of a child, instead of suckling her mother’s empty breast, sucked its own small knuckles thinly covered with translucent skin. I have no idea how many of the unfortunates I saw managed to survive. Every morning on my way to work I saw bodies on the pavements, in ditches, under a bush or a tree, which were later carried away.” Personal stories must be recounted and remembered. A genocide, if not clearly told, can facilitate another. I would like to acknowledge Borys Potapenko, a Ukrainian American community leader with whom I have worked for nearly 40 years and who did so much to make this visit possible. I am very grateful to all of you for inviting me to share this commemoration of Holodomor with the hope that it can and will lead to a more humane and just society and world. My budama pamya tatay ###
11.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representatives Sandy Levin (MI-09) and Dave Joyce (OH-14) led a bipartisan letter signed by over 40 Members of Congress urging President Trump to allocate robust funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in his Fiscal Year 2020 budget proposal. “The Great Lakes are a vital resource for our nation – important to its health and economic wellbeing – which is why the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative continues to garner broad, bipartisan support for robust funding year after year,” said Rep. Levin. “The Great Lakes are a national treasure,” said Rep. Joyce. “Our nation depends on the lakes as a mode of transportation and shipping and a source of drinking water for the region, not to mention the recreational benefits that draw millions of visitors annually. We must protect this critical resource. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative projects remove barriers to fish spawning areas, restore beneficial uses in Ohio’s Areas of Concern, reduce harmful algal blooms and protect natural habitats. I am proud to lead yet another letter requesting full funding for the GLRI.” The GLRI program supports federal agencies making grants to local and state entities for toxic cleanup projects, coastline as well as wetlands restoration projects and invasive species-related projects. The President’s 2018 budget proposal would have zeroed out funding for the program and the President proposed cutting the program’s 2019 budget by ninety percent. Bipartisan efforts led by Reps. Levin, Joyce, and Congressional colleagues from the Great Lakes region saw funding restored through the appropriations process. This summer, the House approved GLRI funding at the full, $300 million level. To read and download the letter, click here. ###
11.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) testified before the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) this morning during its hearing on the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), a revision of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The following is the summary of his remarks, as prepared. The complete remarks, as prepared, may be viewed on the Congressman’s website. --- (Summary of Remarks, As Prepared) The negative employment and wage effects of the current NAFTA arise from the failure to require real labor reform in Mexico. The result has been a fortification of very low wages in Mexico -- which has caused job loss and downward pressure on wages in the U.S. A new trade deal with Mexico must address this core problem directly and forcefully, which cannot occur by relying on changes to rules of origin, labor content rules, dispute settlement procedures or sunset clauses. A comprehensive ITC analysis of the USMCA is important to helping confront this fundamental issue. Failure to rectify the basic flaw in and the major source of controversy over NAFTA 25 years ago will jeopardize support from the new House Democratic majority. ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin issued the following statement in response to yesterday’s announcement of a new trade agreement between the United States, Mexico, and Canada: With the focus in recent weeks on outstanding trade issues between U.S and Canada, there needs to be a renewed focus on the terms of trade negotiated with Mexico. The fatal flaw of NAFTA 25 years ago must be fixed. There is considerable work left to be done for that to happen. Keeping Mexican industrial wages rock bottom for 25 years to attract foreign investment did not work for Mexican workers who were being paid 1 to 2 dollars an hour and has meant a loss of jobs and suppression of wages for numerous American workers. There are indications that the new Administration and Senate in Mexico want to take steps to end the structure of so-called “protection agreements” entered into with no worker participation or approval and labor boards a dead end for worker rights. The U.S. must actively work with Mexico to achieve basic changes in law and practice as a prerequisite for approval of a renegotiated NAFTA by Congress. ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Andy Harris, M.D. (R-MD) praised the House Foreign Affairs Committee for passing H.Res.931, which commemorates the Ukrainian Famine/Genocide, also known as the Holodomor, and issued the following statement: “Today’s markup of H.Res.931 is a reminder that the lessons of the Ukrainian Famine remain poignant as Congress continues to confront human rights abuses and support the freedom of speech and self-determination of peoples in today’s world,” said the Caucus co-chairs. “Acknowledging this past is also a testament to Ukrainian Americans, many of whom whose families suffered through this crime against humanity, whose story of survival enriches our communities and reaffirms that truth will prevail over the power of those who seek to deny genocide or minimize the horrors of the Holodomor.” ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) delivered remarks during today’s House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on the atrocities being committed against the Rohingya people in Burma, also known as Myanmar. Earlier this month, Rep. Levin introduced H.Res.1057, which calls on the Aung San Suu Kyi and the Burmese civilian government to release from prison two Reuters journalists whose work brought attention to these atrocities. --- (Remarks as Prepared) Mr. Chairman, the facts about the atrocities committed against the Rohingya by the Burmese military are as clear as they are heartbreaking. Multiple United Nations reports have laid out in detail the violence and brutality inflicted on the Rohnigya, including one in August that called for Burma’s military leaders to be investigated and prosecuted on charges of genocide and crimes against humanity. Here is just one excerpt from that UN report related to operations conducted by the Burmese military last year: “The ‘clearance operations’ constituted a human rights catastrophe. Thousands of Rohingya were killed or injured. Mass killings were perpetrated… villagers were gathered together, before men and boys were separated and killed… women and girls were taken to nearby houses, gang raped, then killed or severely injured. Bodies were transported in military vehicles, burned and disposed of in mass graves.” Reporters who have attempted to expose these atrocities in Burma have been targeted for harassment and arrest. Just last month, two reporters from Reuters were sentenced to seven years in prison by a Burmese court for violating state secrets laws in what has been widely reported as a sham process. During their court proceeding, a police official testified he had been ordered to entrap these journalists. Nikki Haley, the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, has said “the conviction of two journalists for doing their job is another terrible stain on the Burmese government.” In response to this brutality and injustice, Burma’s civilian government has been even worse than silent – too often condoning or justifying the military’s murderous repression of the Rohingya. Earlier this year, Burma’s National Security Advisor (Thaung Tun) made a series of comments designed to deny or downplay any violence and atrocities against the Rohingya, saying the vast majority remain in Burma, and “if it was genocide, they would all be driven out.” He went on to declare that the Burmese government “would like to have clear evidence” of ethnic cleansing and genocide. The evidence of course is overwhelming, as presented in the current and previous UN reports. Most discouraging has been the response from the leader of Burma’s civilian government, Aung San Suu Kyi, whose story of triumph over oppression was an inspiration to all. None of us want to see this icon of human rights become the apologist for a human rights catastrophe. The recent UN report specifically called her out for failing to use her position or moral authority to protect the Rohingya, and that civilian authorities have instead “spread false narratives” about the atrocities. And just a couple of weeks ago, Suu Kyi reportedly said the following about the treatment of the Rohingya – “there are of course ways in which with hindsight I think the situation could have been handled better…we believe that for sake of long-term stability and security, we have to be fair to all sides.” This is a message of minimisation that drastically understates the magnitude of crimes against humanity that have occurred. I understand why some have preached patience with Suu Kyi, given that she does not have direct authority over Burma’s military. They say there is a danger the military may dismantle the civilian government if she raises concerns about their brutal repression of the Rohingya. And having met her personally, I know of and greatly respect her brave struggle against repression while under house arrest for nearly two decades. But none of that justifies inaction, or even worse, justification in the face of genocide. Suu Kyi must openly and honestly address the brutal repression of Burma’s Rohingya Muslims. A vital first step would be for her to move the civilian government to free the two jailed reporters who exposed particular cases of violence against the Rohingya. I have introduced a resolution, H.Res. 1057, calling on her to do just that – use the power invested in the civilian government to prevent the continued imprisonment of the brave reporters for shining a light on the truth. I strongly urge this Committee to report similar legislation to the House floor as soon as possible. We must come together and speak with one voice that jailing reporters for exposing the truth is a grave injustice, especially when that truth is the crime of genocide. Thank you. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to the news that General Motors will relocate Cadillac’s global headquarters to Warren, MI, located in Michigan’s 9th Congressional District: GM’s decision to move Cadillac’s global headquarters back to Michigan is a welcome acknowledgement of the clear advantages to doing business here given our leadership in designing, engineering and producing the finest cars and trucks in the world. We look forward to welcoming Cadillac headquarters to Warren, where so much of their research and design already takes place, and seeing Michigan’s leadership role in automotive production continue. ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to comments made at the World Economic Forum by Aung San Suu Kyi, leader of the civilian government in Burma, also known as Myanmar: I find the comments made yesterday by Aung San Suu Kyi deeply disappointing and disturbing. When she said “there are of course ways in which with hindsight I think the situation could have been handled better,” it drastically understates the magnitude of the crimes against humanity that were occurring. And when she said that “we believe that for the sake of long-term stability and security, we have to be fair to all sides,” it is a message of minimisation. I had the privilege of meeting Aung San Suu Kyi a few years ago as part of a delegation led by Nancy Pelosi, joining in admiration for her perseverance and triumph over oppression. There has been a hesitation by some to criticize Suu Kyi for her silence, worrying that it could make it more likely the military would take over the civilian government she leads. Yesterday she said “although we have only 75 percent of the power, we have to accept 100 percent of the responsibility… That’s what elected government is about.” Aung San Suu Kyi does not need to accept 100 percent of the responsibility for all the tragic events in Burma to speak about the atrocities committed against the Rohingya. Nor does she need to accept all responsibility to take the step, authorized in the civilian government, to release the reporters imprisoned by the government, as I urged in the resolution I introduced last week and during my remarks on the House Floor yesterday. When the late John McCain and Dick Durbin, in the Senate, and I, in the House, introduced legislation last year there was hesitation for the Congress to speak clearly and strongly about the human tragedy facing the Rohingya people in Myanmar. It is vital that we do so now, and I urge that the House pass such a resolution when it returns in 10 days. --- Earlier this year and as reports of atrocities continued to mount, Rep. Levin spoke on the House Floor this past May urging his colleagues to support Congressional action to confront the ethnic cleansing. Last week, Rep. Levin introduced a new resolution calling on Suu Kyi to exercise her authority as leader of the civilian government to take steps to release two Reuters journalists recently convicted and imprisoned by the Burmese government after their reporting helped bring to light the widespread violence against the Rohingya ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) spoke from the House Floor today calling on his colleagues to advance a resolution he introduced last week which condemns efforts to suppress information related to the ethnic cleansing being perpetrated against Rohingya minority in Burma, also known as Myanmar. H.Res.1057 calls on Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of Burma’s civilian government, to exercise her political authority to take steps to release two Reuters journalists recently convicted and imprisoned by the Burmese government after their reporting helped bring to light the widespread violence against the Rohingya. --- (Remarks as Prepared) Mr. Speaker, I rise once again to speak about the unspeakable suffering of the Rohingya people. Two recent developments have accentuated the vital need for the House to speak formally and clearly about this human disaster. First, last month, a fact-finding mission of the United Nations spelled out what is undeniable -- that Burma’s Rohingya Muslim population has been subjected to “systemic oppression” culminating in so-called clearance operations that “targeted and terrorized the entire Rohingya population.” The UN report called for Burma’s (also known as Myanmar) military leaders to be investigated and prosecuted on charges of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes related to the atrocities committed against the Rohingya. Let me quote directly from the UN report on the violence and brutality inflicted on the Rohnigya by operations conducted by the Burmese military last year: “The ‘clearance operations’ constituted a human rights catastrophe. Thousands of Rohingya were killed or injured. Mass killings were perpetrated… villagers were gathered together, before men and boys were separated and killed… women and girls were taken to nearby houses, gang raped, then killed or severely injured. Bodies were transported in military vehicles, burned and disposed of in mass graves. Villagers were killed by soldiers, and sometimes Rakhine men, using large bladed weapons. Others were killed in arson attacks, burned to death in their own houses. In some cases, people were forced into burning houses, or locked into buildings set on fire. Rape and other forms of sexual violence were perpetrated on a massive scale.” Second, reporters who have attempted to expose these atrocities in Burma have been targeted for harassment and arrest. Just last week, two reporters from Reuters were sentenced to seven years in prison by a Burmese court for violating state secrets laws in what has been widely reported as a sham process. During their court proceeding, a police official testified he had been ordered to entrap these journalists. This is nothing less than an effort to suppress the truth. The leader of Burma’s civilian government, Aung San Suu Kyi, must pursue the immediate and unconditional release of these courageous reporters. Anything less represents a betrayal of justice and democracy. Earlier this year, Burma’s National Security Advisor (Thaung Tun) made a series of comments designed to deny or downplay any violence and atrocities against the Rohingya, saying the vast majority remain in Burma, and “if it was genocide, they would all be driven out.” He went on to declare that the Burmese government “would like to have clear evidence” of ethnic cleansing and genocide. The evidence of course is overwhelming, as presented in the current and previous UN reports. The fact is that Suu Kyi and the civilian government too often excuse or deny genocide. The UN report stated that she failed to use her position or moral authority to protect the Rohingya, and that civilian authorities have instead “spread false narratives” about the atrocities. Some have preached patience with Suu Kyi, noting that she does not have direct authority over Burma’s military. They say there is a danger the military may dismantle the civilian government if she raises concerns about their brutal and murderous repression of the Rohingya. I met personally with Suu Kyi a few years ago as part of a delegation led by Nancy Pelosi. Her story of not only perseverance but triumph over oppression was an inspiration to all of us. But none of this justifies silence in the face of genocide. Over three-quarters of a million Rohingya have been forced to flee their homes in Burma to seek refuge in neighboring Bangladesh. Many thousands have been killed, beaten, and raped. Dozens of villages have been burned and bulldozed into oblivion. The civilian government has the power to free the two jailed reporters who have exposed particular cases of violence against the Rohingya. Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo should not be imprisoned for shining a light on the truth. Congresswoman Schakowsky is leading efforts to urge Secretary of State Pompeo to demand their immediate release in direct discussions with Suu Kyi, saying “this case is only the latest example of the ongoing erosion of press freedom in Burma, especially directed at those covering military abuses.” Representatives Joaquin Castro and Ann Wagner have sent a letter directly to Suu Kyi urging the journalists’ release after being sentenced for, in their words, “their commitment to a central role of a free press – speaking truth to power.” Nikki Haley, the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, has said “the conviction of two journalists for doing their job is another terrible stain on the Burmese government.” Last week, I introduced H. Res 1057, calling on Suu Kyi to move to immediately and unconditionally free the two reporters. It builds on an earlier resolution that I joined with Senator Durbin and the late Senator McCain that called for both military and civilian authorities to end the violent repression of the Rohingya. I urged that we in the House carry out our solemn duty and come together now and speak with one voice. We should pass a resolution right now saying that jailing reporters for exposing the truth is a grave injustice, especially when that truth is the crime of genocide. We cannot wait to respond to this injustice when it is convenient or safe. Those whose voices have been suppressed through violence and cruelty need us to speak for them now. We must not fail them. I yield back. ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement after introducing a resolution today condemning efforts by authorities in Burma, also known as Myanmar, to suppress information related to the oppression and violence inflicted upon Rohingya civilians. “This resolution calls on Burma’s civilian government, led by Aung San Suu Kyi, to immediately and unconditionally release two Reuters journalists recently sentenced to 7 years in prison for violating state secrets laws after reporting on atrocities committed against Rohingya Muslims. “Last month, the United Nations issued a report calling for Burma’s military leaders to be investigated and prosecuted on charges of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes, and it also stated that Suu Kyi failed to use her moral authority to protect the Rohingya. “I met personally with Aung San Suu Kyi a few years ago and was inspired by her story of not only perseverance but triumph over oppression. It is vital for Suu Kyi to openly address the brutal repression of Burma’s Rohingya Muslims. It is within her power to free two reporters imprisoned for revealing the truth about the treatment of the Rohingya and the House of Representatives should call on her to exercise that authority. “This week’s sentencing of Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, the Reuters reporters whose coverage helped bring to light the widespread violence against the Rohingya, was an injustice and must be overturned.” Earlier this year, Rep. Levin delivered remarks on the House Floor urging Congress to confront the atrocities and last year, he introduced a resolution condemning the violence against the Rohingya. A companion resolution was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) and the late Sen. John McCain (R-AZ). ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-Roseville) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) awarded the Madison Heights Fire Department $368,962 during the most recent rounds of Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) - Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant awards. “The importance of these grants cannot be overstated and it is why I continue to support robust funding for this program in Congress. They help ensure that our fire departments get the personnel, equipment, and training necessary to keep our communities safe,” said Rep. Levin. “We are excited and grateful to the Department of Homeland Security for granting us this award. The SAFER Grant will provide the City of Madison Heights with the much needed financial assistance to hire firefighters to improve our staffing levels allowing us to continue to provide the high quality of service our residents expect,” said Madison Heights Department Chief Greg Lelito. This past March, Rep. Levin signed a bipartisan letter urging House Appropriators to provide at least $405 million in funding for the AFG program and $405 million in funding for the SAFER program. The AFG program is administered within DHS by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The competitive grants program is part of a larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. During this award cycle, $310.5 million is being granted. Along with the Madison Heights Fire Department, 10 other fire departments in Michigan are receiving awards totaling over $2.6 million in the current rounds of awards. ###
08.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday, Representative Sander Levin (D-MI) met with two groups of workers in San Luis Potosí, Mexico. He first met a group at Goodyear Tire, where workers are subject to a labor agreement reached before any workers had been hired, without any say as to conditions at work or as to the imposed CTM organization, the signatory to the document. The workers at Goodyear went on strike on April 24, 2018, protesting the state of their working conditions. In July, they were discharged. In sharp contrast, the workers he met with at Continental Tire elect their labor representatives which negotiate agreements on their behalf. Below is a chart comparing the dramatic differences in working conditions and pay at Goodyear and Continental Tire. “The chart above shows the result in the infrequent instances where Mexican workers have the ability to exercise their basic labor rights. The core issue in the debate over NAFTA twenty years ago was the lack of enforceable core labor and environmental standards. Mexico under NAFTA continued to implement an industrial policy of keeping, at all costs in the industrial sector, very low wages and the absence of worker rights – resulting in outsourcing of U.S. jobs and suppression of U.S. wages,” Rep. Levin said. “A revised NAFTA must assure that this pivotal issue be effectively addressed. The Administration has not consulted effectively with Congress or shared the existing text. Based on earlier discussions and information available today, there is no such assurance that this core issue will be adequately addressed. Unless it is, I do not believe that there will any significant Democratic support for the revised NAFTA, most likely necessary for its passage.” ###
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement regarding the announcement of an agreement between the United States and Mexico on a renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). “Meeting just now with a group of workers in Mexico who were fired from their jobs in a tire factory after they went on strike to protest wages of less than $2 an hour made it crystal clear how far Mexico still has to go to ensure real labor rights. These workers are trapped in contracts that they never voted on or had any involvement in - signed before there were even any workers on the job. Now they are facing unemployment, blacklisting, harassment and threats for attempting to demand their rights. If a rewrite of NAFTA fails to forcefully and directly address this issue, the result will just be more downward pressure on American workers’ wages and outsourcing of U.S. jobs to very low-wage Mexico. “Foreign companies have come to Mexico and exploited workers in combination with Mexican authorities to export products to the U.S. - products that these workers could never afford themselves. This exploitation negatively affects the jobs and wages of workers in the U.S. “After today’s announcement that the U.S. and Mexico have come to an agreement on a revised NAFTA, it remains highly unclear whether there will be assured, substantial change in the status quo on this key issue. Unfortunately, Members of Congress have not seen the reported agreement, despite statutory requirements for full consultation. But reports to date leave major questions about the specific rights of workers to overturn the thousands of unfair ‘protection’ contracts now in place in Mexico, as well as the mechanisms to effectively enforce these rights. “I strongly urge the Administration to stay at the bargaining table as long as it takes to ensure a good deal for America’s workers, and to consult with Congress as required by law.” Representative Levin is in Mexico this week to discuss labor rights with workers, businesses, researchers and government officials. His trip will start in San Luis Potosí, a growing industrial hub for a number of automotive-related products and then continue to Mexico City, where Levin will attend swearing-in events for the newly elected Mexican Senate and meet with Mexican officials. ###
08.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sander Levin (D-MI) will be in Mexico this week to discuss labor rights with workers, businesses, researchers and government officials. His trip will start in San Luis Potosí, a growing industrial hub for a number of automotive-related products and then continue to Mexico City, where Levin will attend swearing-in events for the newly elected Mexican Senate and meet with Mexican officials. "Mexico's industrial policy of keeping wages low by suppressing workers' rights has led to the outsourcing of U.S. jobs, while also keeping Mexican workers from rising to the middle class," declared Rep. Levin. "Any new NAFTA cannot address this critical problem indirectly or with half measures. It must tear down this long-standing structure now embedded in many thousands of so-called protection contracts, which were signed with no real input from or knowledge by workers. We hope our trip will further illuminate the essential importance of this issue, especially as negotiations over NAFTA have reached a critical juncture." Accompanying Rep. Levin on the trip will be Harley Shaiken from the University of California Berkeley, Gladys Cisneros from the Solidarity Center, and Ben Davis from United Steelworkers. ###
08.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-Roseville) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) awarded the Roseville Fire Department $496,459 and the Fraser Fire Department $32,874 during this week’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) - Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) rounds of grant awards. “The SAFER grants will provide new equipment and personnel for our first responders. These grants help support firefighters in their daily mission, where they often risk their lives, to help keep our communities safe,” said Rep. Levin. “These funds will be used to purchase all new fire hose for the Fraser Fire Department. Some of the hose that we have in service is from the 1970’s. Due to the financial issues facing our city we would have been unable to make this much needed upgrades to our department. If not for the assistance from the Federal Government these much needed improvements would not have been possible,” said Fraser Department of Public Safety Interim Director Michael Pettyes. “We are very thankful to Congressmen Levin. He has been a strong advocate for both the AFG and SAFER grants. We are excited to add three Firefighter Paramedics to our ranks improving the service we provide to the citizens of Roseville,” said Roseville FD Chief Michael Holland. This past March, Rep. Levin signed a bipartisan letter urging House Appropriators to provide at least $405 million in funding for the AFG program and $405 million in funding for the SAFER program. The AFG program is administered within DHS by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The competitive grants program is part of a larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. During this award cycle, $310.5 million is being granted. Along with the Roseville and Fraser Fire Departments, twelve other fire departments in Michigan are receiving awards totaling over $1.8 million in the current rounds of awards. ###
08.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement on the passing of Aretha Franklin today: “Aretha Franklin was a unique artist whose voice transcended the arts. While she will be missed by countless people around the world – none more so than those here in Michigan – her legacy will live on and inspire generations to come.” ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding Sergio Marchionne, former CEO of Fiat Chrysler, who passed away today: “Many of us saw first-hand Sergio Marchionne’s vital role in the American auto industry. We had the privilege of working together when it was under siege. His creativity and relentless work ethic were an important part in saving that industry. “He will be sorely missed by the automotive world and his many friends.” ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, all four Democratic Members of Congress – Representatives Sandy Levin, Dan Kildee, Debbie Dingell, and Brenda Lawrence – issued the following joint statement: “We stand united in our shared goal of protecting national security. Today’s political gamesmanship orchestrated by Congressional Republicans and this Administration’s inhumane policies towards immigrants do not serve our nation well. Trust is vital for all law enforcement to do their jobs effectively and safely. We are all ready, willing, and able to work with all of our colleagues on comprehensive immigration reform and to keep our nation safe.” ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, introduced the Medigap Consumer Protection Act of 2018. The bill provides a long-overdue overhaul of the laws governing the Medicare supplemental coverage market, also known as Medigap. These plans provide additional benefits to approximately 12 million Medicare beneficiaries. “Federal law protecting Medigap enrollees has not been meaningfully strengthened in nearly three decades – leaving Medicare beneficiaries vulnerable to discrimination based on their pre-existing conditions,” said Rep. Levin. “The Medigap Consumer Protection Act will prevent discrimination and ensure that all Medicare beneficiaries, regardless of disability, age, or health status, have access to high-quality, affordable supplemental coverage.” The bill institutes a number of key reforms to lower costs and improve the supplemental coverage market for Medicare beneficiaries, especially those with disabilities and end-stage renal disease. Specifically, the bill would: Strengthen federal consumer protections to ensure that beneficiaries with disabilities and end-stage renal disease can purchase a Medigap policy without being denied coverage or subjected to higher premiums based on their health status or pre-existing conditions. Extend protections to other beneficiaries, including individuals in Medicare Advantage who wish to switch back to traditional Medicare. Improve plan efficiency by calling for a review of medical loss ratio requirements, which limit the percentage of premium dollars insurers can spend on administration and profits. Call for a review of pricing standards in the Medigap market to prohibit the sale of policies that discriminate based on the age of individuals. Require the Secretary of HHS to conduct a comprehensive overhaul of the Plan Finder website to ensure that beneficiaries have access to complete and understandable information when comparing enrollment options. Restore access to the two most popular Medigap policies (Plans C and F), which are set to be eliminated for beneficiaries who enroll in Medicare after January 1, 2020. Improve transparency by requiring issuers to disclose payments to Medigap brokers and agents through the Open Payments database. The bill is cosponsored by Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard E. Neal, as well as Committee Democrats John Lewis, Earl Blumenauer, Brian Higgins, Judy Chu, and Danny K. Davis. A summary and copy of the bill text may be viewed on the Rep. Levin’s website. ###
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukraine Caucus Chairs, Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Sandy Levin (D-MI), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) issued a joint statement after President Donald Trump’s summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki: “As co-chairs of the bipartisan Ukraine Caucus, we are deeply troubled by the President’s subservient behavior towards President Putin. The United States must never tolerate actions that seek to weaken democratic institutions in the U.S. and our allies abroad. “Russia’s illegal invasion of Ukraine and its assault on peace and security in Europe has led to the death of thousands of Ukrainians and the displacement of millions. “We are also concerned that the President did not condemn the Russian government’s assault on Ukraine’s sovereignty, including cyberattacks on its institutions, aggression in the Donbass region and the illegal occupation of Crimea. “We urge President Trump to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our NATO allies in the face of continued threats from Russia and its aggression in Ukraine.” ###
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Andy Harris, M.D. (R-MD) issued the following statement regarding the 2014 downing of Malaysian Airlines Flight MH17 by Russian forces in Ukraine. “Today marks the 4th anniversary of the Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17, which was shot down by Russian forces in Ukraine in 2014. We honor the 298 innocent passengers whose lives were unjustly taken, and join the international community and the Joint Investigation Team in calling on Russian authorities to immediately engage, in good faith, to explain the downing of a civilian aircraft by missile.” ###
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-Roseville) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) awarded the Franklin-Bingham Fire Department $125,724 and the Sterling Heights Fire Department $95,637 through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. Both departments serve communities in Michigan’s 9th Congressional District. “The AFG program provides vital resources needed to help train and equip firefighters who serve our communities. The brave first-responders of the Franklin-Bingham and Sterling Heights Fire Departments risk their lives to protect our families and these grants will help,” said Rep. Levin. “Thanks to the AFG award, the Sterling Heights Fire Department will be able to implement a program to increase the health and fitness of its members allowing them to more safely perform their duties while minimizing the risk of injury or long term health issues,” said Sterling Heights Assistant Fire Chief Edwin Miller. This past March, Rep. Levin signed a bipartisan letter urging House Appropriators to provide at least $405 million in funding for the AFG program and $405 million in funding for the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. The AFG program is administered within DHS by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The competitive grants program is part of a larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. During this award cycle, $310.5 million is being granted. Along with the Franklin-Bingham and Sterling Heights Fire Departments, five other fire departments in Michigan are receiving awards totally nearly $700,000. ###
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s announced funding cuts for Affordable Care Act Navigators: “Once again the Trump Administration has taken action to sabotage health care provided under the Affordable Care Act. Vulnerable populations, those with disabilities, and young adults – many of whom would otherwise be uninsured without in-person assistance, phone counseling, and other important services provided by Navigator organizations – will be harmed by today’s cuts. “This is one more step in an ongoing effort by the Trump Administration to undermine the ACA with the effect being higher costs and less choice for Americans needing health care.” Last year the Trump Administration cut Navigator funding from $63 million to $36 million and today’s announcement would slash it to $10 million. A fact sheet highlighting health plans’, patient advocates’, physicians’, and others’ responses to the Trump Administration’s attacks on the ACA can be viewed here. ###
07.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding yesterday’s presidential election in Mexico: “The election of the new Mexican President provides an opening to address the key flaw in NAFTA. There is an opportunity to improve conditions for workers and communities in all three countries and increase vital purchasing power for economic growth. “The lack of enforceable labor and environmental standards twenty five years ago permitted trade and competition to be built on the lowest standards, harmful to the people of Mexico, Canada and the United States. It encouraged and entrenched in Mexico an industrial policy of cheap labor built on workers having no rights and no voice. This condition undermined building a middle class and deepened income inequality in Mexico and contributed to job loss and income stagnation in the U.S. “Until now there has been a failure to clearly and forcefully address the key issue of labor rights in Mexico, which requires a major change both in the language of laws and in vital practice in Mexico. This issue has at times been overshadowed by the discussion of other concerns, including a sunset provision, which could unfortunately postpone the need for immediate major change, and ISDS, which is in need of reform, but is not central today in Mexico where there is use of large scale financial payments to lure and outsource industry to Mexico, not to penalize it. Nor can the disequilibriums be resolved simply through any rules of origin restructuring. “If NAFTA is to be appropriately renegotiated, it must focus on the substance of the agreement, rather than trying to squeeze it through during a lame duck regime in Mexico or in a lame duck U.S. Congress before the end of this year. Failing to do so would undermine its effectiveness and would cost any significant Democratic support in Congress. “Failure to shape NAFTA to make it work for typical families led to strong opposition 25 years ago. It helped lead to the heightening of opposition to globalization and handicapping those who want to deal constructively with its real life consequences. We cannot afford to continue to make that same mistake.” ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives rejected the second of two Republican immigration bills. Rep. Levin voted against both bills. “The two failed immigration bills put forth by Republicans would have provided no real path forward for the Dreamers, wasted funding for an unnecessary border wall, and done nothing to reunite children cruelly separated from their parents at the border. Instead of wasting time on partisan bills that attempt to arrest and deport our way out of a broken immigration system, we should focus on comprehensive bipartisan immigration reform.” Rep. Levin had previously signed onto a discharge petition that would have allowed for debate on bipartisan immigration legislation. ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Janus. V. AFSCME Council 31. In a 5-4 decision, the court decided against the right of unions representing public workers to collect fees from non-members to cover the costs of collective bargaining and enforcing the contract. “Today’s ruling is deeply misguided and distressing. It turns its back on what helped public employees become a vital part of the American middle class. “It violates a clear, basic principle. Since in representation of workers there can be no discrimination based on whether one is a union member, all who benefit equally should help pay for the cost of the benefit. "As Chairman of the Michigan State Senate Labor Committee in 1965, I authored the first comprehensive public employment relations act in the nation. Our purpose was to empower collective bargaining for teachers who, without rights, were making 5000 dollars annually, as were so many other public employees. When Governor George Romney and I met for the final negotiation of the bill, it was accepted that there should be no free-riders receiving benefits equally from collective bargaining. The bill passed on a strong bipartisan vote and was signed by Governor Romney.” ###
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, a resolution solemnly commemorating the 85th anniversary of the Ukrainian Famine-Genocide, known as the Holodomor, was introduced by Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) and fellow Congressional Ukrainian Caucus co-chairs Reps. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and Andy Harris, M.D. (R-MD). “On the 85th anniversary of the Famine-Genocide, we honor the memory of the victims, cherish the survivors, and again light the way for those still uninformed about the truth. The horrors of the Famine-Genocide of 1923-33 resulted from the deliberate effort by the Soviet Union to destroy Ukrainian identity and thwart the Ukrainian people’s struggle for independence and freedom. “This resolution reaffirms the findings of the Commission on the Ukraine Famine and recommits us to educating others regarding the lessons of this genocide. It is also an expression of support for the people of Ukraine who continue to work towards building a vibrant, democratic society and free-market economy with full respect for human rights,” said Rep. Levin. Between 7 and 10 million Ukrainians were killed between 1932 and 1933 in a Soviet government-orchestrated Famine-Genocide. In 1985, Congress established the Commission on the Ukraine Famine which submitted its findings to Congress in 1988. In 2005, Rep. Levin authored legislation to establish a memorial to the Ukrainian Famine-Genocide on federal land in the District of Columbia. The legislation was signed into law by then President Bush the following year and the work to build the monument commenced. It was officially dedicated in 2015. ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to the Michigan Senate passing SB 897, a bill that imposes many new requirements and conditions on recipients of the Healthy Michigan Medicaid plan. The bill, which originated in the Senate, was modified and passed by the MI House of Representatives yesterday and sent back to the Senate which approved it today. The bill now goes to Governor Snyder for his consideration: “Republicans in Lansing say they are promoting work, but this bill will raise health care costs for tens of thousands of low-wage workers in Michigan. According to the non-partisan House Fiscal Agency, the bill passed today will both end Medicaid coverage for up to 54,000 people and significantly raise premiums for up to another 35,000 Michiganders working just above the poverty line. That’s hurting work, not promoting it. “The latest version of the GOP legislation also puts at risk the entire Healthy Michigan program – covering over 660,000 Michiganders -- by including a trigger that would terminate the program if the Federal Department of Health and Human Services does not approve a waiver permitting the state to raise premiums on families with incomes between 100% and 133% of the poverty line. “I strongly urge Governor Snyder to reject this misguided effort to turn back the tremendous progress we have made in dramatically reducing the number of Michiganders without health insurance – a concern that he also has expressed in the past.” ###
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), Ranking Member on the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement today regarding the 2018 Medicare Trustees Report: "Today’s report shows the financial future of the Medicare program deteriorating under President Trump, including through his efforts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act, which has helped to improve Medicare’s solvency. In addition, the Trustees report again highlights the failure by the Republican Congress and the Administration to meaningfully address prescription drug costs, which have contributed to continued increases in Part B and Part D spending well in excess of inflation. We need to protect Medicare for senior citizens today, as well as for those who will need it in the future.” ###
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-Roseville) released the following statement regarding today’s Department of Transportation announcement of a $97 million Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) Grant awarded for the Mound Road Industrial Corridor Technology and Innovation Project. The project was submitted as a joint application by Macomb County as well as the cities of Sterling Heights and Warren. “This grant will help restore a 30-year old roadway plagued by potholes transforming it into a next generation commercial corridor,” said Rep. Levin. “The road’s improvement will increase safety, enhance travel, and help us maintain and attract manufacturing jobs. Everybody worked hard on this effort and it shows what can happen when we all work together.” Rep. Levin has worked closely with county and municipal officials from the outset of the grant application process. Rep. Levin wrote a letter of support to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao in August 2017. The community-wide effort also drew support from the local area’s Congressional delegation which sent a joint letter to Sec. Chao in June 2018. ###
06.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding current trade negotiations: “Clearly, the status quo in international trade has not been working for American workers and important sectors in our economy, but it cannot be replaced by chaos. “There has been, and continues to be, a lack of a modern, coherent strategy to address key issues. “Rigid adherence to the doctrine of comparative advantage has led to comparative disadvantage for American jobs. “Serious challenges in trade with China have included steel and aluminum, abuse of intellectual property, and - for many years - manipulation of their currency. China created a glut of steel, increasing production since 2000 to 10 times compared to the U.S. This requires a global strategy including our allies in Europe and Canada, but previous administrations have failed to effectuate that basic change. Unfortunately, now disorder reigns with our allies on this issue. “Secondly, there has been a failure in renegotiating NAFTA to address clearly and effectively the central issue going back to its inception - that is Mexico’s adherence to an industrial policy of keeping at all costs pay for workers at only a few dollars an hour to lure industry. This has undermined jobs and wages in the U.S. “As author of the May 10th agreement on labor, let me say that focusing on a sunset provision instead of Mexico’s dramatically reforming in law and in practice a basic structure of suppressing its workers clouds the most fundamental issue. “It is always problematic to use one negotiation in trade as leverage for another, especially when there is inconsistency and uncertainty about both.” ###
05.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to recent comments by U.S. Ambassador to Israel, David Friedman as reported today by the Times of Israel, in which he is quoted as saying “Republicans support Israel more than Democrats”: “The Ambassador’s statement is outrageous, wrong and harmful. It undermines the necessary efforts to sustain bipartisan support for Israel’s security.” ###
05.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to today’s announcement by the Trump Administration to impose new duties on steel and aluminum imports from Canada, Mexico, and the European Union which take effect tomorrow: “There is no doubt that American steel and aluminum workers have lost jobs because of the unfair trading practices of China, which caused a glut in the global market with its subsidized products. Our focus should be on bringing nations together to forge a global solution to force China to commit to real change. Today’s announcement by the Administration does not achieve that goal.” ###
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Andy Harris, M.D. (R-MD) called on the Russian government to release Ukrainian filmmaker Oleg Sentsov. “As this injustice by the Russian government continues, it is more important than ever that we stand up for the principles of free speech and press that protect those speaking out against tyranny. We remain deeply concerned about the Ukrainian filmmaker Oleg Sentsov, and call on Russian authorities to abide by the rule of law and release him immediately,” said the Co-Chairs. Oleg Sentsov, a Ukrainian citizen and resident of Crimea, protested Russia’s occupation and annexation of Crimea. He was arrested in Crimea in May 2014, transported to Russia, and sentenced by a Russian military court to 20 years in prison on terrorism charges in August 2015. At the time of the sentencing, the U.S. State Department called his case a clear miscarriage of justice. Last week, Oleg Sentsov began a hunger strike to protest his continued imprisonment as well as that of other Ukrainian political prisoners. The U.S. Congressional Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe hosted a briefing in August 2017 scrutinizing Oleg Sentsov’s detention, calling it an injustice, and highlighting Russia’s human rights violations against other Ukrainian citizens. ###
05.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), Ranking Member on the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement in response to today’s announcement by the Trump Administration regarding prescription drug costs: “President Trump has repeatedly promised to reduce the high cost of prescription medicines, but the American people have yet to see any real action a year and a half into his Administration. Today’s announcement was filled with more promises, but it fails to spell out viable reforms needed to really move the needle on cutting prescription drug prices. “His announcement rejects two of his own campaign promises: (1) using the Medicare program’s enormous leverage to directly negotiate lower drug prices for senior citizens; and (2) allowing the safe re-importation of cheaper medicines from Canada. Further, there is no meaningful proposal for holding drug companies accountable for excessive price increases, even after President Trump said they were �?getting away with murder’. “The President has taken notice that patients in most countries pay less for medicine than here in the United States. Calling on those in other countries to pay more for their medicine will not assure in any way that patients in America pay less.” This past March, Rep. Levin introduced legislation to strengthen Medicare and reduce drug costs for patients. The bill would require prescription drug companies to pay a rebate when the price of their Part B drug increases faster than inflation. ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) delivered the following remarks from the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives urging Congress to do more to confront the ongoing humanitarian crisis and ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya people: --- (Remarks as Delivered) I rise today to speak about the unspeakable suffering of the Rohingya people. We must do all we can to shine a spotlight on their plight. Last night, the PBS Newshour [Frontline] presented an hour-long documentary about the brutal campaign against the Rohingyas led by the Burmese military. At times, it became intolerable to continue to watch footages of young men being beaten, listen to the accounts of young girls and women being raped and killed, and see human remains shoved into mass graves. The facts are well known: since August last year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya Muslims have fled the violence in Myanmar to neighboring Bangladesh, where they are being housed in deplorable conditions and face an uncertain future. Some of the conversation lately has focused on returning the Rohingya Muslims to Burma, resettling them to a remote island, or some third country. However, I believe the most pressing conversation today must be for the Burmese military and civilian government led by Aung San Suu Kyi to confront the issue head on. The Burmese leadership must acknowledge ethnic cleansing and acts of genocide that have been inflicted on the Rohingya people. As recently as March, a senior Burmese official reportedly made a series of comments designed to deny or downplay any violence and atrocities against Rohingya Muslims, saying the vast majority remain in Burma, and “if it was genocide, they would all be driven out.” He went on to declare that the Burmese government “would like to have clear evidence” of ethnic cleansing and genocide. That clear evidence already exists. Even as Burma has denied international investigators the ability to enter the country to gather evidence of such crimes, a United Nations fact-finding mission found “concrete and overwhelming” evidence of “human rights violations of the most serious kind, in all likelihood amounting to crimes under international law.” The investigative team found widespread and systematic “State-led violence,” and had “numerous accounts of children and babies who were killed, boys arrested, and girls raped.” Various rationales have been suggested for the failures of the Burmese government to acknowledge and act upon atrocities against Rohingya Muslims. It is said that Aung San Suu Kyi does not control the military, and there is a danger that the military would use the present crisis as a way to dismantle the civilian government. It is said that the civilian government is working within a deep traditional bias against the Rohingyas, and some see them as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. Others have suggested that pressure on the civilian government could lead to Burma moving closer to the Chinese. Still others point out that talks about the Rohingyas returning to Burma must be afforded time to work out, and the process has only begun. None of this can undermine for a moment the realities of the persecution of the Rohingyas. The PBS documentary Myanmar’s Killing Fields left no doubt about the extent and nature of the atrocities perpetrated against the Rohingyas. As an UN official has stated it is “a textbook example of ethnic cleansing.” Until the Burmese civilian government and military openly acknowledge their role in these atrocities, protection and justice for the Rohingya Muslims will remain out of reach. There is an overriding need for the Burmese government and the world to step up to the plight of the Rohingyas. Senator John McCain and Senator Dick Durbin introduced, on September 7, 2017, a resolution clearly addressing the plight of the Rohingyas. I introduced the same resolution seven days later. Subsequent events have darkened still further the plight of the Rohingya since then. While the basic message in the resolutions remains the same, it would be wise to update them and then that this entire issue be fully and directly addressed by the Congress. Bishop Desmond Tutu once said: “If you are neutral in situations of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor.” The documentary on Frontline last night made it painfully clear that this Congress must not accept neutrality or any shade of it. We must stand tall on the side of justice. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representatives Sandy Levin (D-MI) and Ron Kind (D-WI) sent a letter to President Trump expressing concern with the nature of the Administration’s attempts to secure final Congressional approval. “A new NAFTA should pass Congress based on its merits and not on the threat of withdrawing from the existing agreement,” noted Reps. Levin and Kind. Addressing reports that the Trump Administration may try to strong-arm Congress into approving an incomplete agreement that relies on “principles” and is thin on details, Reps. Levin and Kind cautioned that doing so is a distraction from addressing core concerns, neglects the interests of American workers, and jeopardizes Congressional support. Reps. Levin and Kind serve on the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade. The letter can be viewed here. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s announcement today that the United States will withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action: “The action of the President today increases the danger for all of us in our nation, and the world, not lessens it. “With Iran only a short period away from having a nuclear weapon, leading nations negotiated specific commitments to prevent Iran’s development of nuclear weapons for 10 years -- clearly better than no commitment from Day One. “President Trump’s acting on campaign promises that never should have been made is a threat to our nation. “Before making my decision on the 2015 Iran nuclear agreement -- one of the most challenging and crucial foreign policy decisions for me during 35 years in Congress -- I looked carefully into the facts. I said then that �?Israel, the region, and the world are far more secure if Iran does not move toward possession of a nuclear weapon.’ That remains true today.” ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, Sander M. Levin (MI-09), Barbara Lee (CA-13), and Mark Pocan (WI-02) announced a letter urging United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to actively oppose anti-worker legislation currently moving through the Mexican Senate. “We are alarmed and concerned about proposed amendments to Mexican labor law introduced in the Mexican Senate on March 22nd, 2018. The bill would maintain the corrupt labor oversight system that has prevented Mexican workers from exercising their rights to organize and bargain for higher wages for decades,” wrote the Members. “This directly undermines the ongoing effort to create a fair playing field for U.S. workers and U.S. businesses through NAFTA renegotiation and will ensure Mexico remains out of compliance with labor standards in the current agreement. We urge you to engage with your counterparts in Mexico, and make it clear that approving this law will have serious ramifications and negatively impact the effort to renegotiate NAFTA.” The full text of the letter as drafted can be found below. --- Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer Office of the United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20006 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: In a previous letter, sent January 23rd, 2018 we urged you to address the issue of Mexico’s poor labor standards in a newly renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), with the understanding that Mexico’s government needed to implement reforms internally for such changes to take place. We appreciate your response and commitment to working with us on this issue. In continuing that effort, we write with urgency today regarding legislation before the Mexican Senate that would maintain the corrupt system that prevents Mexican workers from exercising their ​freedom to organize and bargain for higher wages. We are alarmed and concerned about proposed amendments to Mexican labor law introduced in the Mexican Senate on March 22nd, 2018. The bill would maintain the corrupt labor oversight system that has prevented Mexican workers from exercising their rights to organize and bargain for higher wages for decades. This directly undermines the ongoing effort to create a fair playing field for U.S. workers and U.S. businesses through NAFTA renegotiation and will ensure Mexico remains out of compliance with labor standards in the current agreement. We urge you to engage with your counterparts in Mexico, and make it clear that approving this law will have serious ramifications and negatively impact the effort to renegotiate NAFTA. For far too long, Mexican workers have been prevented from forming and joining independent unions and bargaining for better wages and working conditions. The system of protection contracts, which allows employers and employer-dominated unions (“protection unions”) to sign labor agreements without the approval or often even the knowledge of workers, deliberately prevents workers from negotiating higher wages,[1] keeping many in dire poverty.[2] It is no coincidence that the wage disparity between the United States and Mexico is unchanged in the 24 years NAFTA has been in effect.[3] In February 2017, the government of Mexico initiated constitutional amendments to address protection contracts and dismantle the corrupt Conciliation and Arbitration Boards (CABs) which give employers and protection unions control over labor courts, legitimizing protection contracts and preventing workers from accessing justice. The constitutional changes would replace the CABs with independent Labor Tribunals and require that collective bargaining agreements be explicitly approved by workers. These are urgent and vital changes that must happen if Mexico is to have a functional labor relations system. However, to complete the reform process the Mexican legislature must approve implementing legislation. This is the second attempt to introduce implementing legislation that would gut the 2017 reform process. Both bills were introduced by two members of the Partido Revolucionario Institucional (PRI) who also lead the two largest protection unions in the country.[4] The bill, introduced in December 2017, prompted unions in the United States and Mexico to file a complaint under the labor side agreement of the original NAFTA.[5] The bill introduced on March 22 is largely unchanged.[6] The current proposal would dismantle the tentative progress made over the last year and allow the corrupt network of protection unions to maintain their grip on industrial relations in Mexico. As detailed in the NAALC complaint, the proposal undermines the Constitutional requirement that workers approve collective agreements by a secret ballot vote, weakens transparency provisions established to ensure workers can access information about organizations claiming to represent them, and imposes onerous requirements for independent unions to gain recognition. It would ensure that protection unions and corrupt officials maintain control over the labor justice system, with the power to approve and oversee union registrations, collective agreements, and labor conflicts. We urge you to work with your Mexican counterparts to address this harmful legislation and end the long-standing suppression of wages in Mexico. The current corrupt system of labor relations is harmful not only to workers in Mexico, but to workers and businesses in the United States and Canada. If this legislation is passed and becomes law, it will be a potentially devastating obstacle to the success of the NAFTA renegotiation. Mexico’s Senate must reverse course and stop this regressive bill from becoming law. We urge you to work with Mexico’s government and trade negotiators to ensure Mexico’s 2017 Constitutional amendments become meaningfully implemented, and that a new NAFTA agreement must protect working people and ensure a level playing field. We look forward to continuing to work with you for an agreement that prioritizes working people, their jobs and their wages as NAFTA renegotiations progress. [1] See, e.g. David Welch and Nacha Cattan, How Mexico’s Unions Sell Out Autoworkers, Bloomberg (May 5, 2017) https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-05-05/how-mexico-s-unions-sell-out-autoworkers [2] See, e.g. Christopher Woody, Mexico's wages are so paltry that human-rights and legal groups are sounding the alarm, Business Insider (March 1, 2017) http://www.businessinsider.com/mexico-wages-incomes-poverty-2017-2 [3] The Conference Board, International Comparisons of Hourly Compensation Costs in Manufacturing, 2015 - Summary Tables, https://www.conference-board.org/ilcprogram/index.cfm?id=38269 [4] The Confederación de Trabajadores de Mexico (CTM) and the Confederación Revolucionaria de Obreros y Campesinos (CROC). See Maquila Solidarity Network, Will Mexico Make Good on Promise of Labour Justice Reform, (March 21, 2018)http://www.maquilasolidarity.org/en/will-mexico-make-good-on-promise-of-labour-justice-reform [5] Public Communication to the U.S. National Administrative Office under the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation (NAALC) Concerning the Introduction of Reforms to the Federal Labor Law of Mexico That Would Weaken Fundamental Labor Rights, including the Right to Freely Associate, to Organize and to Bargain Collectively, Submitted by AFL-CIO and the Unión Nacional de Trabajadores (January 22, 2018) https://aflcio.org/sites/default/files/2018-01/NAALC%20submission%20JAN%2025%202018%20with%20UNT.pdf [6] Isabelle Hoagland, Labor sources: Mexican Senate bill could undermine new NAFTA standards, Inside Trade (March 27, 2018) ### ** Update: Fri., Apr. 20, 2018: Following this press release, the letter was sent with 107 signatories. The final version of the letter can be viewed here.
04.18.2018	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin will be among those joining Royal Oak High School students and others Friday for a student walkout at the city Farmers Market to rally for gun law reform. The event is at 11 a.m. and is one of more than 2,000 rallies set to take place nationwide during a National School Walkout to mark the 19th anniversary of the shooting at Columbine High School in Colorado that left 13 dead. “I am proud to stand with these passionate young Americans who continue to demand action on gun violence,” Levin said in a statement. “I have had the privilege of meeting and talking with many of these students in Michigan and in Washington, and know for them the stakes are real and they are life-changing.” However, Levin added Republicans in the U.S. House have refused many of the proposed solutions to gun violence. “That is not acceptable,” he said, “and with these students standing firm in their resolve, it will be come unsustainable.” Bailey Golding, 18, is a senior at Royal Oak High School who was born in Colorado. One of her older sisters was attending classes at Columbine High School the day that two armed students opened fire there, killing 12 other students and a teacher. The shooting traumatized Golding’s family. “Our student-led National School Walkout Rally is so important,” Golding said. “For example, my mother has never witnessed gun violence herself and she still feels the effects every day. “No one in my family has ever been physically harmed by a bullet, but as the little sister of a Columbine survivor, I don’t want anyone to ever go through the emotional harm that my family has gone through living with these memories.” Golding and Royal Oak High junior Taylor Jacobs are to speak at the rally, along with Levin. The goals of the National School Walkout, according to the group’s website, are to: • Hold elected officials accountable • Promote solutions to gun violence • Demystify and engage students in the political system A number of Royal Oak students also took part in a local rally and march in Detroit last month as part of the March For Our Lives movement on March 24. Royal Oak area students have gotten support from the Oakland/Macomb chapter of the Moms Demand Action volunteer group that advocates for gun policy reform. Lindsay Warren, a leader with the group, said students from other school districts such as Berkley, Troy, Ferndale and Clawson will also be joining in the rally Friday at Farmers Market. Though there are different groups coalescing around the movement, Warren said they share a common commitment to change gun laws in the U.S. and reduce deaths and violences. “It just isn’t right that we have 25 times more deaths from guns (in the U.S.) than our peer nations -- like Canada and others -- do,” she said. --- DAILY TRIBUNE: U.S. Rep. Levin to join Royal Oak student walkout rally
04.18.2018	Concerned that proposed work requirements more punitive than helpful WASHINGTON, D.C. - The four Democratic Members of the Michigan Congressional Delegation, Representatives Sandy Levin, Dan Kildee, Debbie Dingell, and Brenda Lawrence, today sent a letter to Governor Rick Snyder expressing concerns over legislation coming before the Michigan Senate to deny Medicaid to individuals who cannot meet a proposed work requirement. The Members urged the Governor to conduct an analysis on how many Michiganders might lose Medicaid coverage under the proposed changes before any further action. Their letter notes that most Medicaid recipients already work or are unable to work, and that some of the proposed requirements for Michigan would be the harshest in the nation. The Michigan Senate Competiveness Committee is scheduled to consider legislation on this issue today. A PDF of the letter is available here and the text of the letter follows: --- Dear Governor Snyder: We are writing to strongly urge full and careful consideration of the effects of legislation denying Medicaid coverage to those who cannot meet a rigid work requirement before further efforts are made to enact such a bill. As a starting point, we urge any consideration of the measure be postponed until the State is able to conduct the analysis needed to provide a comprehensive assessment of how many Michiganders might lose health coverage under such a proposal. The requirements in the bill reportedly soon to be considered in the Michigan Senate fail to take into account that most adult Michiganders receiving Medicaid already work, or have significant health conditions. A University of Michigan study of those receiving expanded Medicaid under the Healthy Michigan program found that more than 60 percent were either already working or unable to work. Among enrollees not currently working, 80 percent had a chronic physical or mental health condition. This raises the concern that Medicaid work requirements may be more punitive than helpful, particularly in the case of the Michigan Senate bill which proposes some of the harshest requirements in the nation. As we currently understand it, this bill: (1) lacks any real work program with supports to help people find and maintain work; (2) cuts off Medicaid to a part-time working mother with a child over the age of five; (3) fails to provide adequate accommodation for older workers (applying the work requirement to those though the age of 64); (4) burdens recipients, including those already working and those with disabilities, with additional barriers and red tape; (5) denies Medicaid to working individuals for an entire year if they miss a deadline for filing a change in their income; (6) terminates coverage for certain college students who cannot work 29 hours a week in addition to going to class; (7) pushes more uncompensated care costs on to Michigan’s hospitals; and (8) likely subjects the state to a challenge in the courts because it will impose a new eligibility condition for Medicaid not in federal statute. Cutting off health coverage for struggling people will undercut the historic gains our state has made in covering the uninsured through the bipartisan Medicaid expansion, which the University of Michigan found helped beneficiaries perform better in existing jobs and in job searches, leading to improved employment. We urge you to reject any effort that would significantly threaten this tremendous progress. Thank you for your consideration of this request, and we look forward to your reply. ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) submitted the following statement on the House Floor opposing Republican efforts to advance a Balanced Budget Amendment that paves the way for cuts in vital programs such as Medicare and Social Security: --- Mr. Speaker, here they go again. Republicans are coming to the House floor to decry growing deficits, as if they had nothing to do with them. Just this week, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reported that the federal deficit is going to double over the next five years - driven by policies passed by a Republican-controlled House and a Republican-controlled Senate and signed into law by a Republican President. Their hands are stained with red ink. The fact that these same Republicans are now saying we need a Balanced Budget Amendment to tame our debt is more than a little hard to swallow. In fact, I don’t know how they are not choking on their hypocrisy. Republicans increased the deficit by $1.9 Trillion to provide huge tax breaks mostly to wealthy individuals and large corporations. Just look at the analysis from the Tax Policy Center, which shows the top one percent - those with income over $730,000 a year - getting an average tax cut of over $50,000 in 2018, compared to only $60 for those at the bottom. And CBO tells us the deficit will grow even higher if the GOP further extends these tax cuts for the top. The purpose of today’s activity is not to bring balance to the budget - it is to provide political cover for Republicans. But even they are having trouble pretending to take this bill seriously. Here’s what Representative Mark Meadows, Chairman of the Freedom Caucus, has said about this measure: "There is no one on Capitol Hill, and certainly no one on Main Street, that will take this vote seriously." Representative Jim Jordan characterized today’s proceedings by saying: "...we’re going to pound our chest like Tarzan and say we’re for a balanced budget, it’s not going to fool anybody." And a staffer for the conservative Club for Growth summarized the whole effort as, "Leadership is just trying to check a box here." If today’s legislation was only about hiding the real Republican record on rising debt, it would be bad enough. But this measure also paves the way for devastating cuts in critical programs, including Social Security and Medicare. The Republican balanced budget amendment would prevent Social Security from drawing down savings the program is now accruing in its trust fund to pay promised benefits in the future. This would force cuts in Social Security benefits because all federal expenditures would have to be covered by tax revenues collected during that same year. A similar problem would exist for paying future Medicare benefits out that program’s trust fund. Additionally, by requiring a balanced budget every year, regardless of the state of our economy, this legislation would force benefit cuts and tax increases at the worst possible time – potentially turning mild recessions into great depressions. Not only would that be devastating for hard-working families, it also would drive future deficits even higher. Mr. Speaker, today our Republican colleagues are hoping their concerned words will hide their harmful actions on increasing our nation’s debt. But in doing so, they are only creating more potential harm. We should reject this deceptive and dangerous charade. ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) delivered the following remarks during today’s House Ways and Means Committee hearing on the impact of tariff increases on the U.S. economy and jobs: --- (as prepared for delivery) The panel effectively reflects the present intensive clash of different interests and approaches to trade. For decades, our nation's trade policy has been handcuffed by allegiance to theories ill-equipped to respond to the realities of rapidly advancing globalization. That was true as: 1) Japan used a tightly knit economic structure operating in in its closed market and manipulating its currency to take full advantage of the essentially totally open US market, with a lurch in American policy here and there but no more; 2) NAFTA represented the first major individual trade agreement with a developing nation with a very different deeply embedded low cost labor structure and woesome environmental standards, but the only safeguard for its consequences was a non-enforceable side letter; and 3) When China responded to its entry into the WTO with increased huge governmental expenditures, with state-owned enterprises and major currency manipulation, the US failed to use the surge provisions and annual review provided in PNTR and engaged in innumerable discussions but not actions on currency. There were some successes at change--the May 10 provisions on labor and environment, and a retention of AD/CVD - a form of tariffs what was also used by Bob Lighthizer - we fought for in the Uruguay Round. But prevailing doctrine, often becoming dogma ruled the day, and alternatives were often quickly dismissed as "protectionism". There was little acknowledgement that for some, often many, the notion of comparative advantage could be comparative disadvantage. Then these chickens came home to roost. An internationalist trade policy with important roots after the Second World War became often too rigid and insensitive to the impact on individual families and is now challenged by its opposite, nationalism in trade policy often based on going it alone. I urge this means: 1) On steel and aluminum, using proposed tariffs as a way to achieve a long overdue global solution to a long known problem of a huge glut caused mainly by China that has impacted American companies and jobs. Also at long last effectively addressing China's perpetual mistreatment of intellectual property. 2) As to the Korean FTA renegotiation, that whatever the foreign policy needs, it did not substantially alter the endless Korean NTB's which have prevented effective penetration of that nation's industrial sector. 3) On NAFTA, renegotiate it, but only if Mexico effectively addresses industrial policy and practices keeping labor costs cheap at all costs, with workers without any rights and take home pay at one or two dollars an hour. This not only keeps Mexican workers from becoming part of their middle class and for American middle class workers impacting their jobs and suppressing their wages. Ambassador Lighthizer acknowledges this, as has Commerce Secretary Ross, and the President has on various occasions. But so far the search has been to address the problem in every which way except the only one that can really work, a dramatic change in Mexican law and practice. At this point in implementing a Constitutional change, the Mexican Senate is going backwards. Backwards will not work in addressing the present immense challenges of globalization. Trade must remain international, but only if it is actively shaped, rather than the notion that more trade is necessarily better and that problems will simply work themselves out in the wash. The danger is that benefits that can come from international trade will themselves end up in the wash. ###
03.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding a renegotiated free trade agreement between the U.S. and South Korea: “When the Korean Free Trade Agreement was initially put forward for redesign by the Obama Administration, there was a proposal to calibrate any reductions in U.S. tariffs directly to proportionate increases in U.S. exports to South Korea. But this approach was rejected as ‘managed trade.’ Instead, there were alternative proposals directly aimed at opening the Korean market to American autos, especially through the elimination of non-tariff barriers. Additionally, the reduction in U.S. tariffs for passenger vehicles was phased down in order to reflect the opening of the Korean market. The agreement also attempted to promote reciprocity in trade through a surge provision that would reinstitute tariffs if Korean exports hit certain levels. Unfortunately, there was a failure to take effective action to enforce the agreement to tear down non-tariff barriers. As a result, there are still very few U.S. vehicles sold in South Korea, which is the major factor in our overall trade deficit with Korea. “From what we understand about the new agreement with South Korea, there are some small measures of progress, but we still see no assurance of a basic change in Korea’s heavily protected market. On non-tariff barriers, the agreement does not appear to systematically and comprehensively address the technical barriers that are constantly faced by American autos in the Korean market. “On currency, it appears the agreement will only be a side deal, and there is no evidence that there will be any enforceable penalties for currency manipulation. It is not at all clear that it will be substantially different from the wholly inadequate proposal during the negotiation for the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement. “The basic issue is whether there will be a substantial change in the status quo. Without it, American companies and workers will continue to suffer.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding his vote today in support of the omnibus appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2018: “Today I voted in favor of increasing our Nation’s investment in supporting medical research, combating the opioid crisis, rebuilding our infrastructure, expanding child care and early education, improving medical care for our veterans, and protecting our environment. Importantly, today’s omnibus funding bill completely rejects many of President Trump’s prior budget proposals, including eliminating funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and undercutting the Drug Free Communities Program - two initiatives I have helped lead the fight on. “This legislation is certainly not without flaws and major omissions, and the process by which it came before the House without sufficient time for a comprehensive review is lamentable. And so the fight must continue to ensure justice for the Dreamers, whom President Trump is threatening to deport even as they enrich our communities having come here as children. We must also continue the fight to comprehensively address gun violence, and in two days, hundreds of thousands of students will march to make just that point. And we must continue to fight against President Trump’s assault on affordable health care. “But today, this bill advances many important priorities for the American people that we have fought hard to win, and we must fight even harder for the critical issues that remain.” ###
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), the Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee’s Subcommittee on Health delivered the following opening statement during this afternoon’s subcommittee hearing on the implementation of Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act’s (MACRA) physician payment policies. Demetrios Kouzoukas, Principal Deputy Administrator at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, offered testimony during the hearing. --- (Opening statement as prepared) Thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding today’s hearing, and thank you Mr. Kouzoukas for joining us this afternoon. Nearly three years ago, President Obama signed into law the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, or MACRA. This bipartisan legislation put an end to the recurring threat of draconian Medicare cuts under the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate formula. By creating a new Quality Payment Program and Alternative Payment Models that reward physicians that coordinate care and achieve better outcomes, MACRA took us several steps forward in our effort to make Medicare an increasingly value-based program. I look forward to hearing about the progress being made under this law. However, as useful as today’s meeting is in reviewing MACRA, we must recognize that we are not holding this hearing in a vacuum. The actions of Republican majority and the Trump Administration have caused upheaval in the health care system that has undermined many of the goals we hope to achieve through MACRA. Regrettably, throughout all of this chaos, this Subcommittee has been remarkably inactive during the 115th Congress, holding just three hearings prior to today. President Trump has consistently worked to undermine and sabotage key aspects of the Affordable Care Act through administrative actions. These include ending cost-sharing reduction subsidies, slashing funding for Navigator groups and outreach, and – most recently – expanding the reach of short-term policies that can evade important patient protections. These and other actions have left the insurance markets in chaos and resulted in major premium increases throughout the country. Yet, despite the urging of Ways and Means Democrats, we have held no hearings on any of these issues. Not one. As we move forward, we must no longer ignore these harmful proposals. Furthermore, we must acknowledge that President Trump’s budget would devastate access to care for millions of Americans. His budget cuts more than $1.4 trillion from Medicaid by switching to per capita caps and block grants while ending the ACA’s Medicaid expansion. It also slashes $532 billion from Medicare through – among other cuts – a radical restructuring of the graduate medical education program and devastating cuts to home health agencies and nursing facilities that serve the most vulnerable beneficiaries. When it comes to value-based payment, the approach of this Administration has not reflected the bipartisan commitment that Congress showed in passing MACRA. Instead, it is more about conservative ideology than common-sense innovation. By massively scaling back value-based payment efforts begun during the Obama Administration and hinting at a shift toward premium support and privatization experiments, the Administration has left many seniors worried about what lies ahead for Medicare. Mr. Chairman, MACRA was a truly bipartisan effort, and we have a shared goal of ensuring that it is ultimately a success. Today’s hearing reflects that bipartisan commitment. However, we must not ignore the broader developments that have undermined this spirit and threaten to greatly overshadow the improvements made by MACRA. ###
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following opening remarks this morning during a U.S. House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee hearing on the U.S. trade policy agenda. During the hearing, Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, offered testimony. --- (Remarks as prepared) The two major trade issues -- NAFTA and steel -- have a major common attribute. The clash over both of them has been decades in the making. After the failure to act by the U.S. Government and be acknowledged as a problem by traditional trade theorists, outsourcing in manufacturing to Mexico increased dramatically -- lured by Mexico’s industrial policy of cheap labor. During much of this same period, China undertook a massive increase in steel production often using state-owned enterprises reaching 10 times that of US production, in contrast to their equal amounts of production nearly 20 years earlier. The impact in the American industrial sector from these two developments was loss of middle class jobs and suppression of wages. In both cases the response was a lack of any coordinated action, instead either handcuffed by allegiance to theories ill equipped for the realities of rapidly advancing globalization, by a willingness to settle for talk in conference after conference, or by putting profits over the personal impact on working families. This created a vacuum. Like any problems left to fester, it has made it more difficult to remedy them effectively and responsibly. They must be. As to steel and aluminum, I suggest that we all look at a recommendation in the recent remarks of AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka, where he said: “These tariffs will be most effective if used strategically, targeting China and other countries that are the source of the problem. In fact, instead of retaliating against the U.S., as some have threatened, our allies should work together with us to address this global glut that threatens our economic and national security.” As to NAFTA, there cannot be a successful renegotiation—which I believe most Democrats want—unless the central problem is fixed. Mexico must tear down its structures of an industrial policy built on suppressing its workers that impacts American jobs and wages. Instead, there is evidence that in its Congress Mexico is now moving backwards. Mexican workers today often make less in real dollar terms than they did 25 years ago, and less on the average now than those in China. I recently met two workers in Mexico from the auto parts industry who said their take home pay was 75 cents an hour in one case, and $1.25 in the other. The President has spoken about this suppression. Now he must deliver. ###
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Sandy Levin (D-MI) and Bill Johnson (R-OH) led a bipartisan group of over 100 Members of Congress in sending a letter to House appropriators calling for robust funding of the Drug Free Communities (DFC) program. The program has a proven track record reducing alcohol and drug use among youths. In the letter, the Members also expressed their concern with a proposal to move the DFC out of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. “The DFC program has a proven track record of success and is needed now more than ever in the face of the ongoing opioid crisis. This program provides invaluable protection to our youth and must remain a top priority for our nation,” said Rep. Levin. “Over 20 years ago, I worked with then Rep. Rob Portman of Ohio to create the DFC program and I am proud to continue leading bipartisan support for the program with Rep. Johnson today.” “The Drug-Free Communities (DFC) program provides key assistance to curb substance abuse among our youth, and it empowers local communities to implement programs to address the ongoing opioid crisis,” said Bill Johnson. “Prevention is key to addressing substance abuse, and local DFC programs target needed resources to help keep children off drugs and build supportive and resilient communities for everyone. It’s important that our local community partners, schools, and law enforcement have the support they need to reduce drug abuse. I am grateful for Rep. Levin’s leadership and support for this vital program.” Currently, 677 communities across the nation have Drug-Free Communities Coalitions that provide support to 2.4 million middle school students and 3.3 million high school students. The signatories are requesting that DFC is funded at $99 million during Fiscal Year 2019. You can view the letter here. ###
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement on the passing of his colleague and friend, Congresswoman Louise Slaughter: “I had the privilege of hearing and seeing Rep. Louise Slaughter in action for over thirty years. On the floor and in the Rules Committee, she was a strong and bright advocate for her beliefs. She never hesitated to speak out for women and workers who needed a vigorous voice on their behalf. We spent many happy times with Louise and her late husband Bob. I join in sending warmest condolences to her three daughters.” ###
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Dave Joyce (OH-14) and Sander M. Levin (MI-09) led 63 bipartisan Members of Congress in a letter to House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Chairman Ken Calvert and Ranking Member Betty McCollum requesting the Committee appropriate $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) for Fiscal Year 2019. Each year there is strong support for GLRI funding and this is the largest number of signers compared to similar letters from previous years. “Year after year the Great Lakes are threatened and get the short end of the stick when it comes to funding. Our Great Lakes are such an important resource for our nation and region. It is in our best interest to protect and maintain their health,” said Rep. Dave Joyce. “I am proud to have led yet another letter requesting necessary funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.” “The fact that the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative garners such strong, bipartisan support is a testament to the importance it has to our region and the nation,” said Rep. Levin. “Our public health and regional economic vibrancy is built on the Great Lakes’ ecological wellbeing which can only be maintained with our sustained and robust commitment.” “The Great Lakes Commission appreciates the ongoing support from the bipartisan Great Lakes congressional delegation for sustaining the important work we are doing under the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. This is vital for restoring the lakes and leveraging them as an environmental and economic asset for our region,” said Matt Doss, policy director for the GLC. To read and download the letter, click here. ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) led a bipartisan group of over 100 Members of Congress in sending a letter to House appropriators urging continued funding to maintain the vital Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP). “CSFP serves communities across the country, providing crucial nutrition assistance to low-income seniors,” said Rep. Levin. “President Trump’s recent proposal to eliminate all funding for the program in his Fiscal Year 2019 budget would take food out of the mouths of some of the most vulnerable Americans. I am proud to lead this bipartisan group in rejecting these harmful cuts.” CSFP provides over 700,000 food packages per month to low-income seniors, including those that do not qualify for other assistance and many who are homebound. The packages ensure that program participants get key nutrients often lacking from their diets. The bipartisan letter is being submitted to the Chair and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies. The full text of the letter and signatories follows: --- March 15, 2018 Dear Chairman Aderholt and Ranking Member Bishop, We write to express our strong support for preserving the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) in the Fiscal Year 2019 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. As you may know, President Trump has proposed to eliminate all funding for the CSFP in his Fiscal Year 2019 budget request. We strongly urge you to reject this proposed elimination and provide sufficient funding to maintain the current caseload, and to provide an opportunity for the one remaining state to start their program subject to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) approval. Based on currently available program costs, we estimate that the needed appropriation will need to be no less than $250 million. As you may know, CSFP is a critical nutrition program that delivers USDA commodities primarily to seniors. In this time of continued economic hardship, reliance on nutrition assistance is greater than ever. CSFP is an important component of our nutrition efforts because it reaches many seniors who qualify for no other program while providing delivery for those that are homebound. In FY 2018 CSFP will provide up to 728,552 food packages each month in 49 states, the District of Columbia, 3 Indian Tribal Organizations, and Puerto Rico. This year program participants are elderly individuals with an income at or below $15,782. CSFP food packages are designed to supplement needed sources of nutrients typically lacking in participants’ diets, including protein, iron, zinc, and vitamins B-6 and B-12. CSFP providers also have been very cost efficient: the typical food package has a retail value up to $50 but costs the Federal government approximately $20 per participant package. As you begin the appropriations process for Fiscal Year 2019, we urge you to maintain sufficient funding to this important lifeline that supports many seniors in our communities. We appreciate your consideration of this important request and look forward to continuing to work with you to ensure that no American goes hungry. Sincerely, Sander M. Levin Glenn 'GT' Thompson, James P. McGovern, Vicente Gonzalez, Peter Welch, David N. Cicilline, Dave Loebsack, Frederica Wilson, Yvette D. Clarke, Alcee L. Hastings, Adam Schiff, Joaquin Castro, André Carson, A. Donald McEachin, John Yarmuth, Judy Chu, David Scott, Salud Carbajal, Juan Vargas, Albio Sires, Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ryan Costello, Keith Ellison, Kathleen M. Rice, Robert A. Brady, Barbara Lee, Mike Thompson, Brendan F. Boyle, Peter A. DeFazio, Adriano Espaillat, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Donald M. Payne, Jr., Diana DeGette, Danny K. Davis, Seth Moulton, Gene Green, Gwen Moore, Elizabeth H. Esty, Bobby L. Rush, Dina Titus, Mark Takano, Brian Fitzpatrick, Ed Perlmutter, Tony Cárdenas, Joe Courtney, Frank Pallone, Jr., Jan Schakowsky, Anthony Brown, Mark DeSaulnier, Ted Deutch, Jacky Rosen, Elijah E. Cummings, Alan Lowenthal, Linda T. Sánchez, Daniel T. Kildee, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Cedric Richmond, Al Green, Colleen Hanabusa, Kyrsten Sinema, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Tom Marino, Patrick Meehan, Mike Doyle, Scott H. Peters, Marcia L. Fudge, Jamie Raskin, Emanuel Cleaver, II, Rick Larsen, Dwight Evans, Brenda L. Lawrence, Jerry McNerney, Val B. Demings, Nanette Barragán, Filemon Vela, Carol Shea-Porter, Jackie Speier, Louise M. Slaughter, Alma Adams, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Gregory W. Meeks, Tom O’Halleran, Donald Norcross, Steve Cohen, Denny Heck, Ben Ray Lujan, Kathy Castor, John Lewis, Darren Soto, Debbie Dingell, Zoe Lofgren, Ann McLane Kuster, Tulsi Gabbard, Mike Kelly, Sheila Jackson Lee, Jimmy Panetta, Suzan K. DelBene, Josh Gottheimer, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan, Ro Khanna, Raul Ruiz, Al Lawson, Jr., Brad Sherman ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) along with dozens of Congressional colleagues staged a walkout from the U.S. Capitol in solidarity with students across the country organizing and participating in similar walkouts, demanding legislative action to prevent gun violence. Before walking out, Rep. Levin delivered remarks on the House Floor calling on House Republican Leaders and the President to allow votes on legislation that would ban assault weapons and improve the background checks system, among other gun violence prevention solutions. Earlier this morning, the Congressman sent a letter to the student leaders and walkout participants from his district, commending them for their efforts and letting them know that he will continue to push for federal legislation to prevent gun violence. Rep. Levin’s remarks from the House Floor follows: (Remarks as prepared) Mr. Speaker, students from across the nation, including in the 9th Congressional District in Michigan, are demanding that their voices be heard on the issue of gun violence. They are upset with the carnage they have witnessed. They are fearful for their safety. And they are tired of excuses and inaction. But one month after the tragedy in Parkland, Florida, not to mention so many prior school shootings, Republican leaders in Congress have failed to bring up any legislation that might meaningful control the weapons being used to kill and wound so many Americans. No bill on assault weapons. No bill on improving background checks. No bill to ban bump stocks. Nothing. This is a terrible moment of silence, when we desperately need a moment of action. While there is no single answer to gun violence, any credible response must address the weapons of war that are turning our schools, houses of worship, movie theaters and concerts into battle fields. Assault weapons with magazines holding 30 bullets are not needed by hunters, nor are they required for self-defense. They are killing machines, and increasing numbers of our fellow Americans have become their victims. Congress must stand up to the NRA and say enough. Even President Trump called out Republican Members of Congress for being too afraid of the NRA to act, saying the NRA has “great power over you people, they have less power over me.” But ever since, President Trump has been back-tracking, showing he too is more scared of the N.R.A.’s political muscle than he is of the American public’s demand for change. This outcome is depressingly familiar. 50 years ago, one week after Bobby Kennedy was assassinated, I spoke on the issue of gun violence at Wayne State University in Michigan. I felt compelled to speak about the myths that the NRA was spreading regarding any effort toward sensible gun control. In my 1968 speech, I said “One of the favorite sayings of the NRA and the rest of the gun lobby is that ‘guns don’t kill people, people kill people.' The figures show the inaccuracy of the statement. The truth is that ‘people with guns kill people.’” This remains as true today as it was 50 years ago. And yet we still remain paralyzed by the NRA. And what is the NRA’s solution to gun violence – more guns. More guns in the classroom by arming teachers; more guns on the streets through lax concealed carry laws; and more guns crossing state lines by over-riding local laws. In their deranged math, more guns somehow equals less violence. Grieving parents and terrified students deserve so much better. They are tired of the stonewalling, the diversion, and the deception. They are demanding real action to stop gun violence. Let us act now. ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to President Trump announcing his plan to impose tariffs of 10 percent on aluminum imports and 25 percent on steel imports while allowing for conditional exceptions for Canada and Mexico, as well as potentially other countries: “American workers have lost jobs and their livelihood as China with its subsidized industry has led the way in creating a glut on the market. In the year 2000, the U.S. and China produced roughly the same amount of steel, while today China produces ten times the amount. “In responding to this crisis, the President calls for some exceptions now, with the possibility of further ones. This crisis in steel and aluminum has shown the fallacy of the prevailing notion that disequilibriums in trade will cure themselves, but it also highlights that the U.S. cannot resolve it by going it alone.” ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This morning, Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) delivered the John D. Greenwald Memorial Lecture at the Georgetown Law School Institute of International Economic Law (IIEL). The keynote address opened the IIEL’s 2018 International Trade Update symposium, a 2-day event featuring legal and economic experts from around the world. Rep. Levin’s remarks focused on the current state and future directions of international trade. His remarks, as prepared, follow: --- Today, our nation faces an intense clash over international trade. The long years of American policy extolling free trade at nearly any cost has collided with a hyper-nationalism that approaches trade as a zero-sum game between nations. This clash did not develop overnight. There are roots that began to develop after the post-World War II period which saw a major burst of expanded trade with major benefits to the nations most involved, primarily those with comparable economic structures. An orthodoxy spread. Free trade was the mantra. It was contrasted with the perils of Smoot Hawley, supported by references to the doctrine of comparative advantage going back a century before. Deviations were readily labeled as “protectionism”, the opposite of the positive meaning of the word “protect”. That framework resisted change as conditions altered and issues flared. Japan In the 70s and 80s, Japan developed its industrial might built on a manufacturing export platform. It poured products into America’s open markets, contrasted with Japan’s basically ironclad closed structure. Pressure grew on the Reagan Administration for a response, but the one most concerned, Secretary Mac Baldridge, was often a lonely voice. The trade deficit with Japan grew dramatically, three quarters in the automotive sector. NAFTA It represented a major trade agreement, in many respects for the first time, between two developed economies and a developing nation with very different structures and conditions, including labor and the environment. The most controversial and divisive issue was whether to include enforceable basic international labor standards. The Bush Administration said No, with Republicans often describing labor standards as “social issues”. The Clinton Administration acceded to their exclusion, with an unenforceable side letter. The final vote for NAFTA in the House was 234 to 200. CAFTA The same issue dominated the debate over a trade agreement with developing economies with very different structures in Central American nations and the Dominican Republic. The U.S. agreed that other nations only had to enforce their own laws, no matter how inadequate and regardless of their effect on jobs and workers’ wages. It passed the House by 2 votes, with 87% of Republicans voting Yes and 92% of Democrats voting No. China A key amendment was inserted in China PNTR which I helped draft to allow the U.S. to take unilateral steps against a harmful surge of Chinese products and to require an annual review of Chinese compliance with its new WTO obligations, rather than a quadrennial review. The Bush Administration refused to implement the surge provisions on the four occasions recommended by the International Trade Commission. When China submitted boilerplate annual reports on compliance, the Bush Administration took no action. When China began to dramatically manipulate its currency there were calls for action, and legislation passed in the House to address the currency manipulation. Republicans led the opposition. The Obama Administration chose to depend on a variety of talks, without pushing for a structure for enforceable action no matter how clear cut the manipulation. No such action occurred. Korea Contrary to commitments in the Korea Free Trade Agreement, Korea remains a very much closed economic structure, while gaining increasingly open access to American markets with lowering tariffs. Peru It became the first country to enter into a FTA incorporating the groundbreaking May 10th provisions on enforceable international labor standards. Included also was the spelling out of international environmental standards, with very specific requirements relating to deforestation. This provision remains basically evaded seven years later. Today’s Debate The renegotiation of NAFTA has begun with this legacy on international trade. No language or orthodoxy can hide what has happened in the 25 years since its negotiation. There was a major movement of industry to Mexico. Chickens came home to roost. It was not because of automation or to take advantage of Mexico’s trade agreements with other countries. It was basically because of the cheap cost of labor, a small fraction of that in the same plants in the U.S. Cheap labor was embedded in a structure of thousands and thousands of so-called “protection agreements” between companies, very often multinational ones, and almost always an organization Confederación de Trabajadores de México (CTM), connected with the party ruling the government, Partido Revolucionario Institucional, (PRI). These were often signed before there were any employees, and in any event, invariably with no involvement of workers. If a complaint was filed, it fell into a deep hole of a tripartite board controlled by the same three parties. When TPP was being negotiated, the Obama Administration acceded to the demands of the Mexican government that this issue be addressed outside of the formal TPP negotiations. That was a mistake. The Obama Administration attempted to respond with discussions between the two governments at high levels. A constitutional amendment expanding labor rights was passed, but it required effective implementation by the Mexican Congress. A recent submission under NAFTA spells out how the implementation is moving more and more in the wrong direction. When I was in Mexico last week, I met with two workers in auto parts who said their take home pay was 75 cents an hour in one case, and $1.25 in the other. This can’t be allowed to continue. A basic requirement of renegotiating a new NAFTA must be that Mexico tears down its wall of an industrial policy of heavy-handed suppression of wages and denial of labor rights. This will help workers in Mexico and protect the jobs and wages of American workers, who have seen their jobs outsourced to Mexico. The renegotiation of NAFTA is now accompanied by a recent announcement on tariffs on steel and aluminum. Unfortunately, the present argument on steel has been handicapped by a legacy which has helped lead to a false choice between a blind faith in international trade and the siren call of President Trump to turn inwardly. In the Uruguay Round, a key question was continuation of anti-dumping and countervailing duties. There was resistance to the continuation of strong AD/CVD provisions that could be utilized. A few of us in Congress insisted in Geneva that they be continued. As steel imports continued to grow, the industry and workers took action to utilize these provisions. But they could not by themselves stop the growth of mammoth over-capacity. Most of the overcapacity today originates in just one country -- China. The Chinese steel industry is largely state-owned and state-supported, and operates on decisions made by local Chinese officials with mandates to satisfy economic growth targets. As a result, the production numbers are staggering. In the year 2000, China’s steel capacity was just over 100 million tons, roughly the same as the United States. Today, it is 1.2 billion tons – more than 10 times as high as U.S. capacity – and more than the total capacity of the United States, the European Union, Japan, and Russia combined. We are still waiting for many details relating to President Trump’s response. His ultranationalist approach may not lead to an enduring solution for our steel and aluminum industries. Legitimate questions have been raised about world-wide tariffs compared to an approach that targets those nations skirting rules on dumping. There remains an overriding need for an enforceable global solution. Just as we should not be guided by a blind faith in global trade, we also must not be fooled into the sense that America can go it alone. At every policy juncture I have described there was a better approach at our disposal that would have addressed the perils as well as the promise of globalization. We simply must acknowledge the defects of blindly applying an outdated dogma to the challenges we have confronted since the late 80s. This complacency opened the way for a new perilous dogma. Our challenge is to call upon all of those that can rally around an activist, yet internationalist approach, to create new sensitive trade policies rather than reckless nationalistic ones. ###
03.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to the passing of former State Representative Maxine Berman: “I am saddened to hear of the passing of my dear friend Maxine Berman. During her service in Michigan’s House of Representatives and in the administration of Governor Jennifer Granholm, Maxine was known for her intelligence, thoughtfulness about public policy, her candor, and her powerful advocacy for women’s health and reproductive freedom, affirmative action, and stem cell research, among many other vital issues. After leaving the Granholm Administration, Maxine served as the prestigious Griffin Endowed Chair in American Government at Central Michigan University. She was inducted into the Michigan Women’s Hall of Fame in 2015. “Her many accomplishments do not capture the influence that Maxine, had throughout – and since – her years of public service. Maxine was always willing to lend an ear or a hand to talented people who want to serve, and Michigan benefitted from the leadership of the countless women to whom Maxine served as a mentor, confidante, policy advisor, and coach.” ###
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, introduced the Protecting Medicare from Excessive Price Increases Act. The bill will require prescription drug manufacturers to pay a rebate when the price of their Part B drug increases faster than inflation. “Medicare currently has no protection against excessive price increases for prescription drugs covered through Part B,” said Rep. Levin. "This leads to unnecessary growth in program spending and higher costs for beneficiaries. Informed by recommendations of the nonpartisan Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, this bill is an important step that will help strengthen the Medicare program and reduce out-of-pocket costs for seniors.” Although most prescription drugs are covered by Medicare under Part D, there are many categories of outpatient drugs covered through Part B. These include injectable medicines, cancer treatments, certain vaccinations, and other medications administered directly in a physician's office or in a hospital outpatient department. Total spending on Part B drugs was $25.8 billion in 2015, of which approximately $5 billion was paid out-of-pocket by beneficiaries. Under current law there is essentially no limit on manufacturers’ authority to set and raise prices for medications covered by Part B. Spending on such drugs has grown on average by 9 percent annually since 2009. In response to a request made by Rep. Levin and former Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA) to investigate the matter, the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of the Inspector General indicated that implementing an inflation rebate program for the 64 most expensive Part B drugs could protect the federal government and Medicare beneficiaries from significant drug price increases to the tune of $1.4 or $1.8 billion dollars in 2015 alone. ###
02.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), the Ranking Member on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade and Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI), a senior Member of that Subcommittee, today released the following joint statement in response to Mexican Labor Minister Roberto Campa reportedly downplaying Mexican labor issues in concluding a renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). “Labor rights in Mexico is not an issue that can be sidestepped. It is the central issue that must be addressed in any rewrite of NAFTA. Failure by Mexico to stop suppressing its workers’ wages will not only be an obstacle for a new NAFTA, it will be a death knell for any deal passing Congress. Suppressed wages in Mexico, driven by a lack of independent unions and an inability for workers to collectively bargain, has hurt American workers and led to the outsourcing of jobs to Mexico.” There is a pending complaint from labor organizations in both the U.S. and Mexico alleging that Mexico is falling far short in complying with basic labor rights. The complaint shows that Mexico’s proposed labor law amendments to implement constitutional reforms will violate even existing pacts on labor rights. Over 180 Members of Congress, led by Representatives, Pascrell, Levin and DeLauro sent a letter to the United States Trade Representative in January saying that ‘any new NAFTA must have strong, clear and binding provisions that address Mexico’s labor conditions.’ ###
02.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Sandy Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to Trump Administration plans related to the carried interest loophole in the GOP’s 2017 tax law: “President Trump and Republicans in Congress failed to end the carried interest loophole in the GOP tax bill. They claimed to reduce the problem by increasing the amount of time assets must be held to claim the lower tax rate, but estimates from the Joint Committee on Taxation show that claim to be hollow given the Republican policy saved only pennies on the dollar compared to a real fix. Now some fund managers are trying to dodge even that loose limitation. “Even as Treasury Secretary Mnuchin claims he has the authority to respond to this latest form of gaming, the truth is that the carried interest loophole will continue until we treat this money as ordinary income. There is absolutely no reason that wealthy fund managers should pay a lower tax rate on their income derived from work than other Americans. This is a huge inequity that Republicans simply refuse to address.” For years, Congressman Levin has sought a legislative solution to the carried interest loophole, most recently reintroducing legislation this Congress to tax carried interest compensation at the same ordinary income tax rates paid by other Americans. ###
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, a group of Members of Congress from Michigan, led by Congressman Sandy Levin (D-MI), filed an amicus brief with the Sixth Court of Appeals in support of the plaintiffs in Hamama v. Homan. Representative Levin was joined by Representatives Kildee, Moolenaar, Lawrence, and Dingell. The friend of the court brief outlines their support for the July 2017 stay of removal of Iraqis in Michigan, which is currently being challenged by the federal government. The brief outlines several examples of detainee stories showing their longstanding ties to the U.S. and Michigan, including the lead petitioner, Sam Hamama, whose wife was Congressman Levin’s guest at the State of the Union address last month. Sam is among more than 100 Iraqi Christians from Michigan who were arrested and detained last year by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. “Like Sam, many of the individuals under threat of removal came to America as children. They have started families, with children as U.S. citizens, and positively contribute to the communities in which they live,” said Congressman Levin. “Deporting them to Iraq would threaten their lives and tear their families apart as well as hurt the churches, businesses, and communities they would be forced to leave behind.” Congressman Levin has closely followed the plight of the Iraqi-Americans during their detention. He has written several letters, including an October 3, 2017 letter to Thomas Homan, who is Deputy Director of ICE, urging a meaningful review of the detainees’ post-order custody detention. The Congressman also has personally visited some of the detained Iraqi-Americans at a facility in Youngstown, Ohio. A copy of the amicus brief that was filed can be found here. ### Downloads » 20180212amicusbrief.pdf
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Sandy Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s Budget Proposal for FY 2019: “The self-proclaimed ‘king of debt’ has roughly doubled our nation’s budget deficit – mostly through reckless tax giveaways to the wealthy. He now puts forward a plan that seeks cuts that would hurt the old, the sick, and the poor, but asks nothing from those at the top. And despite promises to protect Medicare, President Trump’s budget would cut it by over $500 billion. The values of the Trump budget are as out of whack as the budget deficits he is driving up.” ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the news today of former Rep. Joe Knollenberg’s passing, Rep. Sandy Levin issued the following statement: "Joe Knollenberg served in Congress when there was still more of a willingness by Members to try to work together. Joe welcomed those opportunities, even where there were major differences. He will be missed personally by those of us who served with him in an institution he prized." ###
02.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In response to an immigration court decision to grant bond to Mr. Sam Hamama, a Chaldean Christian being held in detention at the St. Clair County jail by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement since last June, Congressman Levin issued the following statement: "The Hamama family is overjoyed, as am I, that the court has granted Sam Hamama his release on bail, recognizing how unfair his continuing detention has been to him and his family. I strongly urge the government to reconsider the detention of all Iraqi-Americans who have lived here for many years and where there is no evidence that they 'pose a threat to national security, public safety and border security' as ICE has stated. Deporting these individuals will break up families and place their lives in grave danger." Sam’s wife, Nahrain, was Congressman Levin’s guest at the President’s State of the Union address earlier this week. ###
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Levin will be attending the State of the Union address tomorrow, along with his guest, Ms. Nahrain Hamama. Ms. Hamama’s husband, Sam, is among more than 100 Iraqi Christians from Michigan who were arrested and detained last year by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Sam Hamama is the lead plaintiff in a class action lawsuit filed by the ACLU, Hamama v. Adducci, challenging the federal government’s efforts to deport them to Iraq, where they would be targeted for torture, persecution or death. On July 24, 2017, a federal court granted a request for a preliminary injunction, staying the removal of all Iraqi nationals in the United States who had final orders of removal and who have been, or will be, detained by ICE. “I am honored to have Ms. Hamama and two of her children join me for the State of the Union Address,” said Congressman Levin. “The Hamamas have lived in the United States for decades, have children who were born and raised in the United States, and have positively impacted the community in which they live many times over. Their story is shared by many others. Ms. Hamama challenges us – in Congress and the Administration – to act with compassion and in the spirit of those noblest of American values enshrined on the Statue of Liberty.” Sam Hamama is an Iraqi national from the Chaldean Christian community. He lawfully entered the United States in 1974 at the age of 11. He is married to a U.S. citizen and has four U.S. citizen children. Mr. Hamama has been subject to an order of removal since 1994. He was released to the community and been subject to an order of supervision, with which he was complying by reporting regularly to ICE. On June 11, 2017, ICE came to his home without warning and arrested him in front of his wife and children, detaining him since in the St. Clair County Jail preparatory to imminent removal to Iraq. Since the initial arrests in June 2017 in the metro-Detroit area, Congressman Levin has repeatedly asked ICE to provide information about the detained Iraqi-Americans, to provide them with the opportunity for a fair bond hearing, and for details about the agreement between the governments regarding the deportation of individuals to Iraq. In September 2017, the Congressman traveled to Youngstown, Ohio to meet with Iraqi-Americans being held by ICE in the prison there. The American Civil Liberties Union, which filed the complaint against ICE, has more information about Sam and Nahrain Hamama and their family here. ###
01.23.2018	Urge Trade Rep to Fight for Strong Labor Standards During NAFTA Renegotiations WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Sander Levin (MI-09), and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09), Ranking Member on the House Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee, led a letter from 183 Members of Congress to the United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer expressing concern with the ongoing renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Specifically, the Members of Congress told Lighthizer to end the outsourcing of good-paying American jobs by negotiating for strong labor standards that end wage suppression and support increased labor rights for Mexican workers. “The suppression of wages and lack of labor rights continue to result in the outsourcing of U.S. manufacturing jobs and low wage growth,” wrote the Members of Congress. “Low wages, a lack of independent unions and an inability for workers to collectively bargain in Mexico have hurt American workers and led to the outsourcing of jobs to Mexico. Increasing labor rights in Mexico will help workers there climb out of poverty, and also protect American jobs and wages from a race to the bottom.” “Any new NAFTA must have strong, clear and binding provisions that address Mexico’s labor conditions,” continued the Members of Congress. “Given the ingrained resistance to labor rights in Mexico, we must demand real and identifiable progress on labor reforms take place before Congress votes on a renegotiated NAFTA.” The full letter is available here. ###
01.22.2018	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Sander Levin (MI-09), Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following statement after voting ‘no’ on a bill that fails to include a long-term budget or the priorities of the American people: “It is unacceptable for Congress to continue funding the government just weeks at a time. Another short-term continuing resolution—the fourth since last October—hurts our military readiness and injects uncertainty into our economy. “Congress should pass a long-term budget that provides certainty to our military and addresses the priorities of the American people. With so many unresolved and pressing issues, including the opioid epidemic, pension crisis, disaster relief, crumbling infrastructure and protecting DREAMers, Republicans and Democrats must sit down together and reach a compromise. We stand ready to work in a bipartisan fashion to address these issues. “While Senator McConnell has now pledged Senate action, we need a commitment from Speaker Ryan in the House to work with Democrats on a long-term budget agreement as well as legislation to fix our broken immigration system and protect DREAMers. We oppose another short-term funding bill for these reasons.” ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to reports that the Trump Administration is planning to propose slashing funding for the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), Representative Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement: “Once again the Trump Administration is recklessly attempting to gut the primary office responsible for combatting a variety of drug-related problems, including the opioid epidemic. The Drug Free Communities Program, which is now administered by the ONDCP, has funded local coalitions of law enforcement, faith-based organizations, schools, healthcare professionals, parents, and students in 600 communities to respond to emerging substance abuse problems for over 10 million youth across our nation. Moving this program out of the Office of National Drug Control Policy would reduce its effectiveness by placing it within an agency without the funding and experience to oversee it. Such a move is especially troubling given prior efforts by the Trump Administration to completely eliminate all funding for the program. We should be elevating drug-prevention programs, not undermining them.” Rep. Levin and now Senator Portman were the original authors of the Drug-Free Communities program in 1997. ###
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on President Trump’s recent comments on immigration from certain countries: “President Trump is sinking into lower and lower depths. We must not let him take our beloved nation with him. We must together repudiate his unquestionably intolerant remarks. Together we cannot tolerate his intolerance. We cannot let anyone excuse the inexcusable. We must speak out against the unspeakable. Silence is not an option” ###
01.05.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 5, 2018 Contact: Nick Gwyn, (202) 225-4961 Levin Statement on Jobs Report WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement on the release of the final monthly job numbers for 2017. “As a candidate, President Trump did everything he could to trash President Obama’s economic record. But now he touts slightly worse jobs numbers under his Administration as a tremendous success. The truth is President Obama and Democrats in Congress helped steer our economy away from the worst recession since the Great Depression and toward 75 consecutive months of job growth. We should be building on that progress by building the middle class, not the bank accounts of the very wealthy as the recent tax bill did.” Trump in 2016: Trump in 2017: “the country’s a disaster” “starting to do really well” “don’t believe those phony “jobs are roaring back” numbers” ###
12.19.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 19, 2017 Contact: Nick Gwyn, (202) 225-4961 Levin Floor Statement on GOP Tax Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today delivered the following remarks on the House floor during consideration of the conference agreement on HR 1. (Remarks as delivered) “In all of my 35 years in Congress, this is one of the most deceitful bills I have ever seen. It is deceitful when Republicans say the bill is focused on the middle class, while it’s really aimed at making the very wealthy even wealthier and forcing millions of middle class families to pay higher taxes. It is deceitful when they say it makes the tax code simpler, even as the legislation creates complicated new loopholes, while allowing existing ones, such as carried interest, to continue. It is deceitful when the bill will increase the outsourcing of American jobs by providing a lower tax rate on foreign investment compared to investing here. It is deceitful about the debt. Republicans say don’t worry about the expiring tax provisions, but extending them would raise the bill’s already devastating effect on the deficit to $2.3 trillion. Republicans are rushing this bill, but even in their haste, they are too late. The majority of the American people already say this bill is a deceitful sham.” ###
12.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 13, 2017 Contact: Nick Gwyn, (202) 225-4961 Levin Statement at House-Senate Tax Conference WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), a House conferee on the pending tax bill, HR 1, today delivered the following comments during a House-Senate conference on the legislation. Watch here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4699032/sander-levin-tax-conference (Remarks as prepared) “Mr. Chairman, the headlines say the Republicans have a deal on a tax bill, even as we are here having a conference committee on the two bills passed by the two houses. This is indeed a mockery. The horse is out of the barn, but it’s limping – limping badly. Of all the fake claims we have heard over the last few months, the greatest is that the Republican tax bills are focused on helping the middle class. The truth is that millions of middle-income Americans would be forced to pay higher taxes under these bills. In 2019, nearly 13 million Americans with incomes below $200,000 a year would pay HIGHER taxes under both the House and Senate bills. By 2027, over 32 million would pay higher taxes under the House bill, and nearly 38 million under the Senate bill. These higher taxes comes from Republican proposals to limit the state and local tax deduction and from other provisions. The Republican claim that their bills are aimed at helping the middle class truly deserves Four Pinocchios. It’s so bad that I hope those who check the facts will add a fifth Pinocchio. The second outrage is the myth that tax cuts for the top pay for themselves and that the $2.3 Trillion in new debt that would be amassed under the GOP tax changes will be erased by economic growth. In reality, the middle class will get stuck with the bill for this debt, either through a future deficit tax, or through cuts to programs they depend on, such as Medicare. Meanwhile, those earning over $1 million a year will get an average tax cut of over $73,000 in 2019 under Republican proposals. It may be even worse given reported efforts by Republicans to lower the top tax rate. This is truly class warfare – Republican warfare against the middle class and all who aspire to it. You are working in desperation, not in deliberation, and that will create new tax loopholes that will plague us for years. And slapdash proposals supposedly designed to reduce the offshoring of American companies and jobs may actually make the problem worse. I was going to say we need to hit the pause button before it’s too late, but apparently it is too late since the majority has made a mockery out of this conference.” ###
12.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 12, 2017 Contact: Nick Gwyn, (202) 225-4961 Levin Statement on Tax Conference WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), a House conferee on the pending tax bill, HR 1, today issued the following statement regarding the House-Senate conference on the legislation: “While the tax conference committee will not have its first official meeting until tomorrow, Republicans are meeting behind closed doors to finalize their bill -- discussing whether large corporations and the very wealthy will receive nearly all, or almost all, of the tax benefits. The middle class is dramatically being left behind, and in some cases, run over by the Republican tax bill.” Democrats will hold a forum on Wednesday to review the impact of GOP proposals on middle-class families and the U.S. economy. There are many areas of significant concern, including: The enormous tilt of tax breaks to the very wealthy in both the House and Senate bills – the biggest tax windfall for the very rich in modern history; The millions of middle-class families who will face tax increases either immediately given the elimination or reduction of tax credits for education, health care, and state and local taxes (the effect of which is masked by averaging tax changes across groups rather than individuals), or over time because of bracket creep under the new, reduced inflation measure for the tax brackets and/or the sunsetting of certain provisions. The massive new tax loopholes that will be created, especially under provisions related to pass-through business income, and current loopholes that are not closed, such as the carried interest provision for wealthy investment managers, which President Trump promised to end. The concern that provisions in these bills will increase, rather than reduce, the offshoring of US jobs and companies by increasing the incentive to move to tax havens. The rise in health insurance premiums that the Congressional Budget Office projects will occur under the repeal of the individual mandate, and which AARP estimates will raise premiums in 2019 by an average of $1,500 for Americans aged 50-64. The massive amount of new debt the GOP tax changes will generate even under the Joint Committee on Taxation’s most optimistic projections. And finally, the pressure this debt will apply to cut Medicare and other essential programs. ###
12.06.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 6, 2017 Contact: Nick Gwyn, (202) 225-4961 Levin Statement on President Trump’s Declaration on Jerusalem WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding President Trump’s formal recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel: “My strong support for the 1995 law was based on the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel with a waiver available to promote a two-state solution as the basis for permanent peace with security for Israel. Moving the U.S. embassy to the holy city of Jerusalem was assumed to promote a comprehensive peace agreement, not undermine the prospects for peace. Today’s announcement by President Trump may make such a durable peace harder to achieve by inflaming tensions, so it is vital that the U.S. right now take every feasible step to help move all parties toward negotiating a two-state solution.” ###
12.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 5, 2017 Contact: Nick Gwyn, (202) 225-4961 Levin Floor Statement on Violence Against Rohingya WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding a resolution condemning ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya in Burma ( H.Con.Res. 90): (Remarks as Delivered) “I rise today in support of this resolution. At the same time, I want to raise concerns about the overall thrust of the resolution. This resolution makes it clear that the military in Burma is the main perpetrator of the crimes committed against the Rohingya people. In November, Secretary Tillerson called the violence against the Rohingya “ethnic cleansing,” holding the military responsible. Some have urged that Aung San Suu Kyi does not control the military, and there is a danger that the military would use the present crisis as a way to dismantle the civilian government. It is also been said that the civilian government is working within a deep traditional bias against the Rohingyas, and some see them as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. Others point out that pressure on the civilian government could lead to Burma moving closer to the Chinese. Still others point out that talks about the Rohingyas returning to Burma must be afforded time to work out, and the process has only begun. But none of these factors must undermine the realities of the persecution of the Rohingyas. As an UN officials has stated, it is “a textbook example of ethnic cleansing.” The Pope was under great pressure to not mention the Rohingyas by name. He expressed his deep concerns while visiting the country. And later in Bangladesh, the Pope being specific, said that “None of us can fail to be aware of the gravity of the situation,” and called for “decisive measures to address this grave crisis.” A few years ago, I was part of the CODEL organized by Leader Pelosi to Burma. One of the highlights of the trip was meeting with Aung San Suu Kyi, who had been freed after almost two decades of house arrest. We discussed her unique role in moving Myanmar toward a nation of freedom, human rights and peace. The resolution earlier introduced by Senators McCain and Durbin expressed the overriding need for the world to step up to the plight of the Rohingyas. I introduced the same resolution in the House. These resolutions reflect what the many esteemed historical figures have said. · Theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer, executed by the Nazis, said “Silence in the face of evil, is itself evil.” · Desmond Tutu said “If you are neutral in situations of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor.” · Elie Wiesel said “We must take sides. Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented.” · And Martin Luther King said that the “…[an individual] who accepts evil without protesting against it is really cooperating with it.” ###
12.04.2017	Rep. Levin Highlights ACA Enrollment Deadline ROSEVILLE, MI – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today met with individuals and organizations that help Michiganders enroll in health insurance under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). This year’s ACA open enrollment period lasts only six weeks compared to 12 weeks last year and the deadline for signing up is December 15. The meeting was held in Sterling Heights in the offices of ACCESS, one of the organizations helping Michiganders navigate their enrollment options. Rep. Levin said, “We have to redouble our efforts to help people sign up for health insurance, especially as the Trump Administration is making enrollment more difficult by slashing funding for navigators, cutting the enrollment period in half, and threating steps that would increase premiums. Fortunately, here in Michigan, many dedicated organizations are actively working to help people enroll despite these hurdles. I urge every Michigander without health insurance to sign up now.” In a statement, ACCESS declared that “This open enrollment period, our agency was faced with unanticipated changes, such as a 33% program budget cut along with the shortened open enrollment period.” But ACCESS also noted their successful enrollment efforts despite these challenges, including assisting 1,224 clients, 1,120 of which were assisted with enrolling in a health plan – 705 through the ACA Marketplace and 415 through the Healthy Michigan Plan. The Healthy Asian Americans Project stated “Since the ACA became law, the individual mandate has helped to reduce the uninsured rates for Asian Americans by half. Based on the data from the Congressional Budget Office estimated repealing the mandate will lead to 13 million people losing their health insurance and premiums will increase by 10 percent. The recent tax bill passed in Senate can be very dangerous to our Asian communities.” Organizations attending today’s meeting included: ACCESS Community Health and Research Center; Healthy Asian Americans Project; Chaldean Community Foundation; FernCare Free Clinic, Inc.; MyCare; and Jewish Family Service of Metropolitan Detroit. ###
12.02.2017	Rep. Levin Announces He Will Not Seek Re-Election WASHINGTON, D.C. / ROSEVILLE, MI– Rep. Sandy Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement on his decision not to seek re-election in 2018. “I have been incredibly honored to serve the people of Michigan in Congress and to work on so many issues important to our communities, our state, and our nation. I have tried to live up to the trust given to me by my constituents by following the values of my parents and family and by acting on what I believe after digging deeply into the facts and consulting broadly. I now want to share these same values in ways other than being an elected official. Working to renew our confidence in promoting positive change, especially among our next generation of leaders, will be a particular interest. I am therefore looking forward to joining the University of Michigan’s Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy after my tenure in Congress concludes. But for the next year, much work remains in Congress, especially as it relates to important tax, trade and health policies.” A broader announcement from Rep. Levin was published today in the Detroit Free Press. Representative Levin has championed many critical issues during his 35 years of Congressional service, including: Fighting for comprehensive health care for all as Chair of the Ways and Means Committee during consideration and passage of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Saving Social Security by leading efforts to defeat attempts to privatize the program. Working for fairer trade policies by authoring with Rep. Rangel the May 10th agreement which required for the first time the inclusion of fully enforceable labor and environmental standards in trade agreements, and by insisting that any renegotiated NAFTA address outsourcing of jobs to Mexico due its very low wages and lack of labor rights. Preserving America’s automobile industry by working along with his brother, Senator Carl Levin, and the entire Michigan Congressional Delegation in 2007 and 2008 to ensure emergency assistance to the domestic automobile industry. Fighting for a fairer tax code, authoring the original legislation to treat “carried interest” compensation received by investment fund managers as ordinary income and by pressing to close the “inversion” loophole that allows companies to avoid paying U.S. taxes. Curbing drug abuse by co-authoring (with now Senator Rob Portman) the Drug Free Communities Support Program, which has provided grants to thousands of communities. Protecting the Great Lakes by leading, along with Reps. Louise Slaughter (NY), David Joyce (OH) and former Rep. John Dingell (MI), a bipartisan effort in the House to support the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). A more complete list of legislative initiatives by Rep. Levin can be found here. ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today gave the following remarks on the House Floor on H.R. 1, the Ryan-McConnell Republican tax plan: (Remarks as delivered) “The Republican tax bill is built on massive deception. “The deception is that, as the Speaker put it, "The focus is on middle class tax relief." “That is simply not true. As the non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation said, roughly one out of every four Americans with incomes between $50,000 and $100,000 would pay higher taxes in 2023. And far overshadowing the one thousand dollars or so for other families, in 2019 those earning over $1 million would get an average tax cut of $73,000. “Even as modified in last minute desperation, the wealthiest would receive 90% of the new tax break for so-called pass-through income. “Another deception is that tax breaks pay for themselves. On this, some people may have been in the past fooled once, fewer twice, but none thrice. “A further deception is that exploding the deficit and national debt to $1.7 trillion will disappear as it promotes growth. Not only is this a 180 degree Republican turn, but it threatens Medicare and other critical programs, and will worsen the vast inequalities in income and wealth in America. “It is said that necessity is the mother of invention. In this case Republican political necessity is the mother of desperation and deception.” ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on his vote against the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “I support many of the provisions in this bill for strengthening our armed forces and national security. However, in the absence of Congress coming to terms on broad funding levels for both defense and discretionary spending, I worry that the sheer size of this bill could have a major impact on vital domestic programs, which remain subject to spending caps. I am particularly wary of the potential impact on domestic programs given proposals from President Trump and Congressional Republicans to slash funding for everything from medical research to job training, not to mention the additional pressure for cutting programs that may arise under the GOP debt-driven tax bill. “I do not believe we can truly ensure the strength and safety of our country while tearing down vital programs for American families.” ###
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after the conclusion of the Ways and Means Committee consideration of H.R. 1, the Republican tax plan. The bill was reported out of committee on a party line vote: “The Republican tax bill picks winners and losers – the big winners are the very wealthy and some corporations, and the losers are the middle class and those who aspire to it, and the rest of America who will be forced to pay for the bill’s massive debt for years to come. While the GOP bill gives the very wealthy enormous tax breaks, it actually raises taxes on tens of millions of middle-class families by eliminating the personal exemption and deductions for medical expenses, for full state and local taxes, and for educational needs. Speaker Ryan has said the bill is focused on the middle class, but that is simply not true. It’s really the opposite: it’s a bill built for millionaires. And the process used to consider it has been driven by desperation, rather than deliberation. “The more the American people learn about the Republican tax bill, the more they will reject it, just as every Democrat did today on the Committee on Ways and Means.” ###
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today introduced an amendment to the Republican tax bill (H.R. 1) that would end the carried interest loophole. “This loophole is grossly unfair to regular Americans who provide services and pay taxes at regular individual rates, while wealthy fund managers servicing the investments of monies not their own can pay a lower rate. The President has promised time and again to repeal this loophole. If Republicans can’t step up to the plate on this, what loopholes are they willing to step up to the plate on?” said Rep. Levin. “On Monday, Chairman Brady offered an amendment at the last minute that was a fig leaf that instead of closing the loophole would validate it." Rep. Levin’s amendment was defeated in Committee by a vote of 16-24. ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today highlighted information from the Joint Committee on Taxation that shows large numbers of middle-income taxpayers being required to pay higher taxes under the Republican tax bill, especially in future years: “The data is clear – the Republican bill will raise taxes on millions of middle-class Americans. According to new information from Congress’ official scorekeeper one out of every five taxpayers with incomes between $75,000 and $100,000 will be hit with a tax increase of more than $500 in 2023 under the Republican tax bill. And at least some Americans in every other income group will also see significant tax increases, including one out of seven of those with income between $50,000 and $75,000.” The table referenced by Rep. Levin is available here. Rep. Levin made similar remarks during the debate of the Blumenauer Amendment, which can be viewed here and by clicking below. ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs, Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), Andy Harris (R-MD), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), today introduced a resolution commemorating the 85th Anniversary of the Holodomor Famine-Genocide. The resolution honors the estimated seven to 10 million Ukrainian people who perished at the will of the totalitarian Stalinist government of the former Soviet Union, which perpetrated a premeditated famine in the winter of 1932-1933 in Ukraine in a concerted effort to break the nation's resistance to communist occupation. “We must solemnly remember the millions of Ukrainians who lost their lives in the Holodomor Famine-Genocide and shine a spotlight on the truth. This monument represents our hopes, our shared values, and the humanity that binds us,” the Members said. The full text of the resolution can be found here. The Holodomor Famine-Genocide Memorial opened in Washington, D.C. in 2015, with the support of the bipartisan Ukraine Caucus. ###
11.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after questioning the head of the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) on the Ryan-McConnell Republican Tax Plan during the Committee on Ways and Means consideration of the bill: “Congress’ own non-partisan scorekeeper told us today that 38 million Americans who make between $20,000 and $40,000 in yearly income will see a net tax increase in 2023 under the GOP bill. He also conceded that families in other income groups, including those who earn between $50,000 and $100,000, may also see tax increases depending on their current deductions. “At the same time the Republican bill is raising taxes on middle-income Americans, it provides a huge tax break to the very wealthy. JCT projects that in 2027, those earning $1 million or more a year will receive an aggregate tax cut of $36.6 billion – meaning that each of these very higher earners will receive, on average, a $58,000 tax cut. “This shows that Speaker Ryan’s claim that the GOP bill is focused on middle class tax relief deserves four Pinocchios. The Republican tax bill is focused on helping millionaires, not the middle class.” ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member, today released the following statement in response to the passage of H.R. 3922, which reauthorizes the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) using harmful pay-fors: “This flawed bill comes more than one month after the deadline and relies on harmful offsets that would rip coverage from hundreds of thousands of Affordable Care Act enrollees, shift costs onto Medicare beneficiaries, and raid billions from the Prevention and Public Health Fund. At a time when we should be strengthening, not abandoning, our investments in the health of the American people, Republicans have instead chosen to pass this bill that jeopardizes funding for immunizations, lead poisoning prevention, opioid treatment, and other important public health priorities to pay for what should have been a bipartisan proposal. “I urge the majority to immediately abandon their partisan approach and commit to working in a bipartisan way to reauthorize CHIP to ensure that millions of children don’t lose health coverage and extend funding for Community Health Centers and other crucial programs that the Republican Congress has allowed to expire.” ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement in response to the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) analysis of the Ryan-McConnell Republican tax plan: “The non-partisan numbers we are seeing suggest the Republican tax bill squeezes the middle class and blows up the debt to give big tax breaks to the wealthy and to corporations. “Based on estimates recently released by the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT), the individual tax provisions in the GOP bill actually raise taxes by about $385 billion over the next ten years after setting aside the repeal of the estate tax, the lowering of the top tax rate for pass-through business income, and the repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax – none of which provide any significant tax relief for middle-income families. Many of the deductions and exemptions that middle-income families depend on to lower their taxes are reduced or eliminated under the Republican bill, including personal exemptions, and deductions for interest on student loans, medical expenses, and state and local taxes. This could mean higher taxes for millions of middle-income Americans, even as the wealthy and big businesses get big tax cuts. “Republicans need to slow down their rush to pass their bill before anyone knows what’s in it, and fully explain who is helped and who is hurt. The American people have a right to know.” ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement in response to the introduction of the Ryan-McConnell Republican tax plan, released earlier today: “While we need to carefully review the over 400 pages in the GOP tax bill, one thing is already clear – it provides a huge giveaway to the wealthy and corporations financed by debt that middle-class families will ultimately have to pay for. Republicans claim this will stimulate economic growth, but history has shown their trickle-down economics don’t work. “Additionally, this bill reduces tax credits that help many middle class families, like the state and local tax deduction, the student loan interest deduction, the itemized deduction for medical expenses. At the same time it gives the very wealthiest families a huge tax break by ending the estate tax, which now applies to only the richest 0.2 percent of all estates.” ###
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today announced the launch of a blog, “Tax Talk With Sandy,” to stay connected with constituents as Republicans rush their partisan tax plan through the House. The blog, which will be hosted on Levin’s website, aims to provide daily updates sharing Rep. Levin’s take of the latest tax news. The first post is excerpted below. Blog Post: What to expect in the details of the GOP Plan “Congressional Republicans just recently passed a partisan budget resolution, paving the way for a massive tax cut package that would primarily benefit large corporations and the very wealthy. The budget allows Republicans to pass tax cuts that add $1.5 trillion to the deficit – sticking the middle class with a future deficit tax. … “I support simplifying our tax code, increasing fairness, reducing special interest loopholes, and doing so in a fiscally responsible manner. I have long called for meaningful, bipartisan tax reform that focuses on helping the middle class and those striving for it. That’s what hard-working families in Michigan deserve.” … Read the full blog post here. ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s announcement that he would declare the opioid epidemic a public health emergency: “With the President’s declaration of the opioid epidemic as a public health emergency, we now wait to see if this declaration represents a real plan of action, or just words on a piece of paper. To date, the President and Republicans have moved in the wrong direction, proposing $1.2 billion in cuts to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, eliminating the Prevention and Public Health Fund, and cutting $1.4 trillion from Medicaid. And a preliminary proposal from his Administration even called for cutting the Office on National Drug Control Policy by 95 percent.” “The emergency here in Michigan has seen drug overdose deaths quadruple since 1999, and far too many other states have similar numbers. I call on the President and Congress to back up his declaration with meaningful investments in the public health of the American people – and stop their misguided efforts to roll back the Medicaid expansion – which provides lifesaving treatment to so many. “This country desperately needs action and resources – not just words and empty or changed promises.” ###
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today reintroduced legislation to clarify equal treatment for all married couples under the U.S. tax code. The Equal Dignity for Married Taxpayers Act would remove gender-specific references to marriage in the U.S. tax code, reflecting the U.S. Supreme Court’s 2015 decision that same-sex couples have a constitutional right to marry. The bill would make sure the U.S. tax code is updated to ensure equality for all married Americans. “It’s now been more than two years since the Supreme Court handed down the ruling ensuring marriage equality throughout the country. This bill would carry this equality to all married couples under our country’s tax code, providing them with the fairness, dignity, and basic rights we all deserve,” said Rep. Levin. The bill is cosponsored by House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY), and Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Judy Chu (D-CA), Danny Davis (D-IL), Susan DelBene (D-WA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Ron Kind (D-WI), John Larson (D-CT), John Lewis (D-GA), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and Mike Thompson (D-CA). Identical legislation has been introduced in the United State Senate by U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR). Levin introduced identical legislation in the 114th Congress. A copy of the bill text is available here.
10.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member, today released the following statement in response to news that a bipartisan agreement has been reached in the Senate by HELP Committee Chair Alexander and Ranking Member Murray: “The bipartisan agreement announced today is an encouraging step to strengthen the individual health insurance market, particularly after President Trump’s recent actions to destabilize health coverage. We Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee have repeatedly asked the Chairman of the Committee to commence bipartisan activity in the House, but to date, have heard no meaningful response. “It is now vital that we work on a bipartisan basis to protect health coverage for families in Michigan and around the country.” In September, Rep. Levin and the full Ways and Means Committee Democrats sent a letter calling on Chairman Brady to hold bipartisan hearings to stabilize the individual health insurance market. The full text of the Committee Democrats’ letter can be found here. Rep. Levin was Chair of the Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010.
10.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement in response to the conclusion of the fourth round of NAFTA renegotiations: “Renegotiation of NAFTA must include addressing boldly its most flagrant flaw - the impact of the shift of manufacturing and its jobs to Mexico through its rigid structure not only of very low wages, but wages suppressed by a pervasive lack of labor rights. Doing so is in the interest of workers and consumers in all three countries.” ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s announcement on the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “President Trump is carrying out hyperbolic campaign rhetoric at the expense of America’s national security. His refusal to certify the Iran Nuclear Agreement absent evidence of material breach by Iran is dangerous and reckless. With key members of the Trump Administration having reaffirmed Iran’s compliance with the 2015 Agreement, reached between Iran, the United States, China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and Germany, this another example of the President disregarding even the advice of key members of his own Administration. “During my years in Congress, I actively participated in methodically increasing multilateral sanctions against Iran. Those efforts first led to a broad framework agreement and ultimately the 2015 Iran Nuclear Agreement, which I strongly supported after having thoroughly considered all the provisions and alternatives. At the time of the Agreement, Iran was estimated to be only two months away from the ability to produce enough material for one nuclear weapon. Key restrictions put in place in the Nuclear Agreement lengthened that period to a year. It contains provisions to reduce stockpile of enriched uranium by 97 percent and refrain from enrichment above a 3.67 percent level for 15 years. It cuts the number of installed centrifuges by two thirds, requires Iran to render its heavy water plutonium reactor inoperable, and allows the International Atomic Energy Agency to monitor the uranium supply chain for at least two decades. I supported the Iran Nuclear Agreement because it was the best course of action to ensure peace and security for the United States, and for our allies in the Middle East. “This Administration risks Iran returning as an imminent nuclear threat and undermines U.S. leadership in the Middle East. In taking steps to unravel the Iran Nuclear Agreement, President Trump erroneously argues that a different agreement may be reached, such as putting constraints on Iran’s ballistic missile activities. This could not occur without offering additional incentives to Iran and without strong support from our allies, who have all repeatedly stated their unwillingness to reopen the terms of 2015 Nuclear Agreement.” ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member, today released the following statement in response to the decision by President Trump to end critical cost-sharing payments: “President Trump is continuing his hateful efforts to deny or disrupt health coverage for American families. His most recent decision to end needed federal assistance to help reduce out-of-pocket medical expenses will directly increase costs for millions of middle-class and moderate-income families. “Republicans in Congress have repeatedly rejected efforts by Democrats to prevent the President from taking this reckless step. They bear full responsibility for the consequences of their actions.” Rep. Levin was Chair of the Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010.
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member, today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s latest action to undermine the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “Through this directive, President Trump continues to try to do administratively what Republicans failed to do legislatively. His primary goal is to undermine and destabilize health coverage under the Affordable Care Act, as demonstrated by recent cuts to navigator grants and enrollment efforts, refusal to commit to making cost-sharing reduction payments, shortening of the enrollment period in which consumers can sign up for coverage, and a previous Executive Order directing federal agencies not to implement the law. “This Executive Order rehashes a failed idea that would push more individuals into unregulated Association Health Plans. In so doing, it would deny many Americans important consumer protections that apply to individual and small group market plans, including essential health benefits. Similar proposals have drawn grave concerns from consumer groups, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, and even insurance companies, who warn that this would lead to destabilization of the individual and small group market and cherry-picking of the healthiest customers by Association Health Plans.” Rep. Levin was Chair of the Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010.
10.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In advance of the upcoming round of NAFTA negotiations, Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on Mexico’s policy of suppressing wages, which has resulted in the loss of U.S. manufacturing jobs: “With the fourth round of negotiations on revamping NAFTA beginning tomorrow in Washington, we must focus on the agreement's most basic flaw – its failure to protect U.S. jobs and wages from Mexico's industrial policy of suppressing its workers' wages. Labor rights were the main point of contention when NAFTA was debated 25 years ago, and it remains so today. While there are many important issues that should be addressed in the renegotiation of NAFTA, none of them will significantly change the trajectory of lost manufacturing jobs to Mexico unless this is fully addressed. “The issues and history surrounding NAFTA can sometimes be complex, but its impact on jobs in the U.S., especially in the auto sector, is not. We must correct this dynamic through a trade policy of mutual benefit that seeks rising wages in Mexico, Canada and the U.S. Anything less means just more of the same.” The chart below shows how very low wages in Mexico have hurt jobs and wages in the U.S. A pdf version of the chart is available here. ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A report today released by the U.S. Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) validates information uncovered by Rep. Levin and Ways and Means Democrats in 2013 that there was no political motivation in the IRS’s processing of tax-exempt applications. Republicans completely politicized an investigation into this issue. They claimed a May 2013 TIGTA report, which it’s now shown was wholly incomplete, to supported their allegations that the IRS Tax-Exempt and Government Entities Division, then led by Lois Lerner, targeted Tea Party and other conservative groups for heightened scrutiny based solely on their political views. “In 2013, I asked Treasury Inspector General Russell George at a hearing ‘Did you find any evidence of political motivation in the selection of the tax exemption applications?’ he replied ‘We did not sir,’” said Rep. Levin. “This TIGTA report amplifies that point by clearly demonstrating that liberal groups were also subject to past scrutiny. This was a case, as I said in the beginning, of gross mismanagement at the IRS, not political targeting. But that’s not the political narrative the Republicans wanted, so they selectively ignored important facts to skew their ‘investigation’.” In 2013, Ways and Means Committee Democrats released information that the term “progressives” was included in the IRS “Be On the Look Out” (BOLO) lists used to screen tax-exempt applications. Republicans used the faulty May 2013 report to demonstrate the so-called BOLO included criteria singling out conservative organizations; this report confirms that, going back to 2004, a large number of liberal groups were also singled out – 61 containing the word “progressive” in their name, 6 containing the word “Emerge,” 5 “Occupy” and 14 “Acorn successors.” This is similar to conservative groups identified in TIGTA’s May 2013 report—72 containing “Tea Party” in their name, 11 containing “9/12,” and 13 containing “Patriots.” As Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Levin led the investigation into the original audit by the Treasury Inspector General: · On June 24, Levin shared that the term “progressives” was included on the BOLO list. · On July 12, 2013, Levin shared documents that underscored the flaws in the audit. · On July 17, 2013, Levin shared that liberal groups were denied tax-exempt status · On July 30, 2013, Levin again noted missing information in the original audit. The Department of Justice last month denied a request by Republicans on the Ways and Means Committee to re-open a criminal investigation against Lois Lerner. ###
10.04.2017	(Remarks as delivered) This proposal relates to a board that is not expected to come into operation, at the earliest, until 2022. There’s no pay-for in this bill – and the estimate is that it would essentially require us to come up with $17.5 billion. So I want to talk, if I might on behalf of us all on Democratic side, about your reference to bipartisanship. We need bipartisanship right now on something that is right in front of us, not years away. And so far there has been no willingness on the part of the Republicans to do that. Mr. Chairman, we sent you a letter nearly a month ago asking that we sit down and talk about necessary actions relating to individual health insurance market stabilization. And I think if we work together, we can find ways to do that. So far, we haven’t received a response to that request, even as Senate Republican and Democrats have been moving actively in this effort. So Mr. Chairman, I really urge you on behalf of all of us – not only Democrats on this Committee or Democrats in Congress but the people of the United States – Mr. Chairman for you to agree to sit down with us, or let the subcommittee sit down and talk about these issues. About cost sharing. As we know 7 million people’s assistance is at stake with its continuation. Also, provisions for outreach and enrollment. We received in Michigan just a week or two ago, the notice that there was going to be a cut in navigator funding for the main outreach entity in Michigan by 90 percent. By 90 percent. We need to sit down and talk about how we can avoid that terrible outcome. We also need to talk about programs that relate to risk-mitigation, to bolster the insurance market. You all say you believe in importance of private insurance structure. We should sit down, Mr. Chairman, either in committee or in the subcommittee right away and talk about these issues. So we await your answer. Instead, we’re meeting here today to talk about an entity that is not going to come into operation until 2022. And once again, we have no idea of the pay-fors. I want to end by referring to the pay-fors for the CHIP legislation that is currently being marked up in the Energy and Commerce Committee. The pay-fors that have been presented would raise premiums and cause many to lose coverage. I hope Mr. Chairman, that we will actively participate with the Energy and Commerce Committee to make sure that any pay-fors for CHIP have bipartisan support. So I just finish saying to you, Mr. Chairman, you referred to bipartisanship on numerous occasions in your opening remarks. Will you today tell us you’re willing to have this committee or the Health subcommittee sit down on a bipartisan basis to discuss possible ways to shore up the individual insurance market? And if I might, I’ll yield to you for an answer. ###
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today sent a letter to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Acting Director Thomas D. Homan expressing strong concerns over the review process for Iraqi American detainees, which should determine whether they need to be held in continued detention as they await a determination of their status. ICE has attempted to deport these individuals, but has been blocked by the courts. “Given these statutory and internal safeguards put in place, I am deeply troubled that few, if any of the Chaldean Iraqi detainees in ICE custody since June, appear to have received meaningful review of their continued post-order custody detention. This is so in spite of the fact that many have lived in the Detroit-metro area for decades, have U.S. born children, family members, and gainful employment. Some have been checking in with ICE for decades. As such, the vast majority of this population does not appear to be either a danger to their community or a flight risk,” Rep. Levin wrote. Rep. Levin recently visited five detainees at the detention center in Youngstown, and chronicled their stories in a column. He has also written ICE a number of times requesting additional information on the Iraqi Americans, many of whom are Chaldean; ICE has declined to provide additional details. The full text of the letter is below, and a pdf version can be found here. Dear Acting Director Homan: I write to express strong concerns regarding the post-order custody review process in deciding whether continued detention of Iraqi nationals since June, most of whom have lived in the U.S. for at least a decade or more, is justified. 8 U.S.C. § 1231 provides for a 90-day removal period, after which post-order custody reviews must be conducted to determine whether continued detention is justified. This review process requires ICE to consider release of individuals who pose no danger or flight risk, 8 C.F.R. § 241.4(e)-(f). I ask that you provide detailed information regarding this review process as to each of the detainees, including how many instances it has led to the release of an individual pursuant to such a review. Sections § 241.1(e) through (f) delineate criteria which govern post-order custody reviews. Further, ICE’s internal guidance for conducting post order reviews confirms that release is appropriate “if it is determined that the alien would not pose a danger to the community or a flight risk, without regard to the likelihood of the alien’s removal in the reasonably foreseeable future.” The criteria and factors set forth in § 241.1(e) through (f) are as follows: whether the detainee is a significant flight risk; whether the detainee poses a danger to themselves or others; whether the detainee has ties to the United States such as the number of close relatives residing here lawfully; information showing that the detainee is likely to “adjust to life in a community; whether the detainee is engaged in future acts of violence; whether the detainee is likely to engage in future criminal activity; and whether the detainee is likely to violate the conditions of his or her release from immigration custody. Given these statutory and internal safeguards put in place, I am deeply troubled that few, if any of the Chaldean Iraqi detainees in ICE custody since June, appear to have received meaningful review of their continued post-order custody detention. This is so in spite of the fact that many have lived in the Detroit-metro area for decades, have U.S. born children, family members, and gainful employment. Some have been checking in with ICE for decades. As such, the vast majority of this population does not appear to be either a danger to their community or a flight risk. It is critical that post-order custody reviews with respect to the detained Chaldean Iraqis are conducted in a meaningful and timely manner, considering all the relevant criteria and factors set forth in law. I therefore ask that you provide information regarding the process at your earliest availability. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following response to the Republican tax reform framework released today: “While critical details have been left out, the general trajectory of the Republican tax plan is clear – too much help for the wealthy and an enormous deficit tax for everyone else. “The GOP scheme will attempt to hide this impact through misleading rhetoric and so-called dynamic scoring, but basic math will eventually tell the full story. For example, cutting the top income tax rate would only benefit about one in every 100 households, with millionaires getting a big break. Providing a lower top tax rate for “pass through” business income will also focus the vast majority of its benefits on those with incomes over $1 million. And eliminating the tax on multimillion-dollar estates only applies to richest 0.2% of all estates. “This is not a proposal focused on helping the middle class, especially since those same ordinary Americans will be forced to pay for the growing budget deficits it will create through higher taxes in the future or cuts in vital health, education and other programs. “We need tax reform that helps grow our economy by helping the middle class, and those struggling to join it. A good start toward this goal would be a bipartisan process where Democrats have a real seat at the table.” ###
09.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member, today released the following statement in response to the preliminary analysis from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on the Graham-Cassidy proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “Today’s CBO analysis shines some light on the sheer recklessness of Republicans’ desperate, last-ditch effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act. CBO has confirmed that this bill would devastate funding for federal health programs and ultimately cause chaos in the health care system. Furthermore, this bill confirms what was predicted – that states like Michigan who did the right thing and expanded Medicaid stand to see dramatic reductions in health care funding. “However, it’s critical to remember that this estimate, because of the rushed nature of this process, is missing the most important metric – how many people specifically would be adversely affected by the loss of health coverage or higher premiums. Once knowing that, we will be able to understand the full cost of this proposal, and the harm for so many millions of Americans.” Rep. Levin was Chair of the Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010. ###
09.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today gave the following remarks at the Council on Foreign Relations. A video of the remarks and following discussion can be viewed here. (Remarks as Prepared) “It is a pleasure to be back before the Council on Foreign Relations. “I just returned from the NAFTA negotiations in Ottawa. Before that I spent a week in Mexico where I talked with a wide variety of interests. I was able to meet chief negotiators for Mexico, the U.S., and Canada. A wide of variety of issues was discussed, including procurement, dispute settlement mechanisms, and rules of origin. “On this last issue, which was a significant topic in my conversations with negotiators from both Mexico and Canada, concepts included whether coverage under the rules of origin needs to be updated, including limiting the extent to which content is increasing from China and elsewhere outside of the three NAFTA countries, and whether there should be content rules among the three. It was clear there are significant differences. “The major focus of my discussion in both nations was on the issue that was most central and divisive in U.S. debate on NAFTA 25 years ago -- the lack of enforceable labor standards, as well as environmental. “NAFTA was the first U.S. negotiated b i-lateral- or trilateral- free trade agreement with a large developing nation with a very different economic structure, especially in terms of its labor market. “It reflected the rapid spread of globalization where there was a general failure of traditional trade policy to respond. And that failure became increasingly evident as NAFTA unfolded. “Mexico’s industrial policy of suppressed low wages, combined with increased security of investment, became a magnet for its industrial growth. A key factor has been the maintenance of very low labor costs, ingrained in a structure that suppresses any voice to workers in the workplace. “Pervasive are so called “protection agreements” covering workers without a voice as to a contract, or even of their existence, often signed before there are any employees. The designated employee representative has almost always been the Confederation of Mexican Workers (CTM), allied with the political party PRI, almost always in control of the government. “It is no wonder that while Mexican manufacturing productivity increased 80%, real compensation --wage and benefits -- slid 20% between 1994-2011. In May, BMW signed a contract with CTM that set a starting hourly wage of $1.10 that phases in at $2.53 for assembly line workers, long before the plant was fully open. “In the one instance in the Mexican automotive industry where there is a union selected by the workers and where there is collective bargaining on behalf of the workers, wages are 30% to 40% higher than elsewhere in the industry. “The Mexican industrial policy of suppressing wages completely distorts any notion of comparative advantage -- that if each country concentrates on what it does best, every country and its people will benefit. Mexico’s so called “comparative advantage” not only condemns numerous Mexican workers to working in or near poverty, but it lowers wages and rips away jobs from workers in the United States, especially in the auto industry. “Mexico is a democratic nation with an authoritarian type labor structure. “Mexico has recently undertaken some constitutional democratic labor reforms. They include replacement of federal and state tripartite boards (usually with a representative of PRI, CTM, and the employer). It is a system that has suppressed employee rights. “But the reform process has just started. There are thousands and thousands of protection agreements, both in Macquiladora areas on the border and throughout Mexico. When asked about this at my meeting with the Mexican Labor Department -- how to reform dramatically a system based on this proliferation of protection agreements -- the answer was “they had to be respected during their duration.” When asked what happens if the parties simply renewed these thousands of contracts, there was no answer. This is wholly unsatisfactory. “Without dramatic change occurring before voting on a revised NAFTA, I believe there will be virtually no Democratic support in Congress. “Mexico now produces 3.5 million cars every year -- with expectations that it will produce 5 million by 2020. The movement to Mexico of auto suppliers has been pronounced, with many of the largest having shifted huge numbers of blue collar jobs to Mexico. “Carrier became recently a symbol of job loss to Mexico. Whether or not it was just the tip of the iceberg, it is clear that traditional trade policy has been sitting on a powder keg. “Unexpectedly the renegotiation of NAFTA has become an opportunity to embrace a trade policy less associated by concept of “comparative advantage” and more by what can be called “mutual benefit.” “Ensuring labor rights in Mexico will help workers there climb out of poverty, while protecting American jobs and wages from a race to the bottom. “This will create more consumers for the very products these workers are producing, not to mention providing them with greater economic opportunity. This effort to harmonize upwards -- to the mutual benefit of the US, Canada and Mexico -- should not only be our focus for renegotiating NAFTA, but should more generally guide our trade policy as we seek to navigate globalization. “Globalization increasingly requires that effort, especially in view of those whose answers to globalization are either hyper-nationalism or reliance on notions of sovereignty.” ###
09.22.2017	ROSEVILLE, MI – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member, today sent the following letter to Governor Rick Snyder urging him to speak out about the potentially devastating effects of the health care proposal set to be considered in the U.S. Senate next week, the “Graham-Cassidy” bill. Earlier this spring, Gov. Snyder sent a letter highlighting his many concerns with the House-passed American Health Care Act. “Although the bill is being rushed through Congress without even a preliminary analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, it is evident that the people of Michigan would be severely punished by the woefully inadequate block grant that the legislation proposes to replace the ACA’s expanded Medicaid funding, cost-sharing reduction subsidies, and premium assistance for the Marketplace. The result would be a reduction in federal health funding for Michigan of $8 billion through 2026, according to an analysis by the nonpartisan health care firm Avalere. Even more troubling, the bill sets the stage for a catastrophic funding cliff in 2027 that will cost our state $140 billion over the next two decades. Additionally, the legislation imposes cuts to the basic Medicaid program through an onerous per capita cap that would fail to keep up with health costs,” Rep. Levin wrote. Levin continued, “Protecting the health care of the people of our state should not be a partisan issue. Republican governors from Ohio, Massachusetts, Vermont, and Nevada have all spoken out against this dangerous legislation, which threatens the wellbeing and in many cases the lives of their citizens. I urge you to stand up for the people of Michigan and speak out about this bill.” Rep. Levin was Chair of the Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010. The full text of the letter is below, and a pdf version is available here. Dear Governor Snyder: I am writing to ask you to speak out about the devastating effect that legislation now being considered in the U.S. Senate would have on the people of Michigan. In March, you wrote to me expressing your major concerns with a House proposal to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. You highlighted the bill’s dramatic cuts to Medicaid that would “adversely impact” thousands of Michiganders, telling me that “these are our state’s most vulnerable citizens, friends and neighbors.” The current Graham-Cassidy bill in the Senate also includes severe cuts to Medicaid that in some ways are even worse than those in the bill considered by the House earlier this year. Not only would these draconian reductions cripple our State’s ability to sustain the tremendous progress we have seen under the Affordable Care Act, which includes reducing Michigan’s uninsured rate by more than half, but they also would undermine our ability to provide care to seniors in nursing homes and carry out other basic functions of the Medicaid program. Although the bill is being rushed through Congress without even a preliminary analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, it is evident that the people of Michigan would be severely punished by the woefully inadequate block grant that the legislation proposes to replace the ACA’s expanded Medicaid funding, cost-sharing reduction subsidies, and premium assistance for the Marketplace. The result would be a reduction in federal health funding for Michigan of $8 billion through 2026, according to an analysis by the nonpartisan health care firm Avalere. Even more troubling, the bill sets the stage for a catastrophic funding cliff in 2027 that will cost our state $140 billion over the next two decades. Additionally, the legislation imposes cuts to the basic Medicaid program through an onerous per capita cap that would fail to keep up with health costs. As you know, nearly one million Michiganders rely on coverage through expanded Medicaid and on the Exchange, and such disastrous cuts would have a direct and harmful impact on the affordability of coverage. This could result in as many as 862,000 fewer Michiganders being enrolled in health insurance, according to one nonpartisan estimate. Furthermore, the Graham-Cassidy proposal would eliminate the current guarantee against discrimination for those individuals with pre-existing conditions. The groundswell of opposition to this devastating bill is overwhelming. A senior official at the Michigan Hospital Association recently described Graham-Cassidy as “unacceptable” noting that “it would take billions of dollars away from Michigan’s Medicaid program” and that its provisions “would reduce the protections of the Affordable Care Act.” At the national level, AARP, American Medical Association, American Heart Association, American Hospital Association, American Cancer Society, Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, American College of Physicians, America’s Health Insurance Plans, and many other groups oppose this bill. Protecting the health care of the people of our state should not be a partisan issue. Republican governors from Ohio, Massachusetts, Vermont, and Nevada have all spoken out against this dangerous legislation, which threatens the wellbeing and in many cases the lives of their citizens. I urge you to stand up for the people of Michigan and speak out about this bill. Sincerely, Sander M. Levin Member of Congress ###
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member, along with Michigan Reps. John Conyers (MI-13), Dan Kildee (MI-04), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today sent a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma strongly urging reconsideration of the harmful cuts to the Michigan navigator organizations. Last week, Michigan’s two largest navigators were informed they would receive devastating cuts for the 2017 enrollment period; Enroll Michigan’s budget will be cut by 90 percent and ACCESS would see a 36 percent drop. “Navigators perform crucial work in our communities, directly helping individuals with a range of issues regarding their health coverage. In addition to their core work of guiding consumers through the enrollment process, these groups hold public events that educate individuals about their coverage options, help patients locate providers and select a primary care doctor, assist in Marketplace appeals, and troubleshoot taxpayer problems with Form 1095A,” the Members wrote. On August 31, CMS announced there would be changes to the formula for grants for navigator organization. Last week, Enroll Michigan and ACCESS, received word of their harmful cuts. The full text of the letter is below, or a pdf version can available here: Dear Administrator Verma: As Members of Congress from Michigan, we write to express our opposition to cuts in health insurance Navigator services in our state and across the nation. We strongly urge you to reconsider these cuts, which threaten access to health coverage and other vital assistance for our constituents. In an August 31st bulletin, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced cuts to Affordable Care Act (ACA) initiatives that benefit consumers in Michigan and across the country. According to this bulletin, CMS is instituting a 90 percent reduction in spending on ACA advertising and education efforts, as well as a draconian new funding formula that slashes more than 40 percent from grants to Navigator organizations that help individuals enroll in coverage through the Exchanges. After many days of uncertainty, Navigators have now been informed of the full extent to which these cuts will impact their work. Funding cuts in Michigan will be devastating. The largest Navigator in the state, Enroll Michigan, has learned that their funding will be reduced from $1.2 million to $129,899 – a nearly 90 percent cut that will decimate the work of 28 sub-grantees operating throughout the state. Funding for another major Navigator, Arab Community Center for Economic and Social Services (ACCESS), will be cut by thirty-six percent from $555,000 to $352,478. These unexpected funding reductions jeopardize the future of Navigator organizations, and we are troubled by reports that groups have received no empirical justification for the cuts. Navigators perform crucial work in our communities, directly helping individuals with a range of issues regarding their health coverage. In addition to their core work of guiding consumers through the enrollment process, these groups hold public events that educate individuals about their coverage options, help patients locate providers and select a primary care doctor, assist in Marketplace appeals, and troubleshoot taxpayer problems with Form 1095A. The Congressional Budget Office recently reported that a cut in funding for navigators and other ACA outreach and advertising will increase the number of Americans without health insurance. By helping increase health coverage, Navigators touch the lives of consumers across America. A Kaiser Family Foundation survey found that in the ACA’s first Open Enrollment Period, Navigators and similar groups assisted 10.6 million people with their coverage. In our home state, Enroll Michigan helped approximately 49,000 consumers with coverage issues last year alone, directly assisting 1,692 consumers in signing up on the Exchange and helping more than 7,200 enroll in the Healthy Michigan Medicaid expansion. Without strong federal support for Navigators, consumers nationwide would find themselves without assistance and many would end up without health coverage at all. On behalf of our constituents and consumers throughout the country, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision and provide reasonable funding that will allow these groups to continue their important work. In the absence of such a reversal, your agency will be undermining our fundamental goal of helping Americans find affordable health care. ###
09.19.2017	ROSEVILLE, MI – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member, today released the following statement in response to the Graham-Cassidy proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “With the active support of President Trump, Senate Republicans are trying once again to destroy the progress which has dramatically reduced the number of uninsured in Michigan from 12.4 percent in 2010 to 5.4 percent in 2016. In 2020, the Republican bill would repeal the Medicaid expansion and the subsidies received by those in the Exchange, and replace it with a block grant with significantly less funds than now provided to our state. In 2027, the proposed block grant would disappear – meaning Michigan would lose $10 billion in that year alone. “These changes would put at grave risk the coverage of the one million Michiganders who now have health insurance thanks to the Affordable Care Act. Furthermore, the Graham-Cassidy proposal would eliminate the current guarantee against discrimination for those individuals with pre-existing conditions. “Senate Republicans, knowing this bill will garner public outcry, are hurrying it along without an estimate from Congressional Budget Office, which had estimated that 32 million individuals would lose insurance under the previous GOP legislation. This bill is nothing more than a cruel sham.” The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has estimated the Graham-Cassidy proposal would result in a $10 billion cut to funding for Michigan in 2027. Rep. Levin was Chair of the Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010. ###
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement in response to the announcement that Health Alliance Plan (HAP) would exit Michigan’s individual insurance Marketplace for 2018: “As legislative efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) have stalled, the Trump Administration is undermining health coverage by greatly increasing uncertainty and instability in the individual insurance market. HAP, a longtime participant, today has responded with its decision to leave the Michigan Marketplace. It is now up to Congress to end this uncertainty and strengthen the individual health insurance market. Our fight to thwart efforts to destroy the ACA and to ensure affordable, quality, health care must continue.” On September 8, Rep. Levin joined colleagues to send a letter requesting the Ways and Means Committee, of which he is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Health, to hold bipartisan hearings on stabilizing the marketplace. Earlier this week, Rep. Levin again called on Ways and Means Chairman Brady to hold bipartisan hearings during a markup of other healthcare legislation. Earlier today, Rep. Levin condemned the Trump Administration’s drastic cut in health navigator funding for Michigan, which is yet another effort that will undermine the individual health insurance market. Rep. Levin was Chair of the Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act (ACA) was passed in 2010. He is currently the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health. ###
09.15.2017	ROSEVILLE, MI – The two largest Michigan organizations which help individuals enroll in health insurance today received notice from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) that their budgets would be slashed. Enroll Michigan, which provides funding to 28 subgrantees received a 90 percent cut, from roughly $1.2 million in 2016-17 to $129,899 for 2017-18. ACCESS received 36 percent cut, from $555,000 to about $352,000. Funding cuts of this size will dramatically reduce the in-person assistance that tens of thousands of people in Michigan have been able to rely on since the first open enrollment period in 2013. In 2016, nearly 1 million Michiganders had health insurance either through Michigan’s Medicaid expansion, Healthy Michigan, or the individual marketplace. Navigator organizations, which were established through the Affordable Care Act (ACA), help individuals understand their full ranges of health insurance options, including whether they qualify for cost-saving subsidies or are eligible for Healthy Michigan. Additionally, such organizations help enrollees access and best utilize their health insurance – which is key for the overall health of individuals. CMS announced on August 31, 2017 that there would be significant changes to the formula for awards. Last week, Rep. Levin sent a letter to CMS Administrator Seema Verma asking for a justification for the new methodology, as well as the projections for the impact of the cuts in navigator funding. CMS has not yet responded to Rep. Levin’s letter. Earlier this year, the Trump Administration also shortened the open enrollment period, when individuals can choose a different health insurance provider. Open enrollment for 2018 will run from November 1 – December 15, which is the shortest period since the individual marketplace first launched in 2013. Rep. Levin said: “These cuts will be absolutely devastating for Michiganders who are looking for assistance in enrolling in health insurance. This is just the latest example of the Trump Administration attempting to sabotage the ACA – this time at the particular expense of the health of Michiganders.” Dizzy Warren from Enroll Michigan said: “Since the implementation of the Navigator program, CMS has made it clear that Navigator organizations could not concentrate on just enrollment. The purpose of the Navigator program was to provide millions of consumers with outreach and education, in addition to enrollment services – which is what our network has been engaged in for the last four years. Towards that end, members of the Enroll Michigan network have conducted over 10,000 outreach events throughout the State of Michigan that reached over 3 million consumers. Additionally, we have provided one-on-one enrollment assistance to more than 150,000 Michigan consumers. “The cut in funding for the 2017-18 will absolutely have a detrimental effect on our ability to continue to provide the full range of navigator services that our consumers need. In many instances it will increase the inevitable churning that takes place due to consumers’ confusion, and mistakes in selecting the best healthcare coverage options available to them.” Farah Erzouki from ACCESS said: “Navigators have played a crucial role in helping our community, vulnerable communities and Americans across the country gain access to health care, and ultimately maintain healthier lives. Without this essential service, a large number of this underserved population would be left on their own to navigate the complexities of our health care system and would have no support to advocate for their health. ACCESS knows firsthand the value that this service has brought to our community, and will continue to serve those in need of assistance regardless of what the future brings.” The full text of Rep. Levin’s September 8 letter to CMS is available here. A full list of Enroll Michigan’s grantees can be found here. ###
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today introduced a resolution condemning the violence and repression being committed against the Rohingya ethnic minority in Myanmar, also known as Burma. “I am introducing the same resolution as the one introduced in the Senate by Senators Durbin and McCain to express the urgency in addressing the calamity in Myanmar for the Rohingya people. “I had the privilege of meeting Aung San Suu Kyi in Myanmar as part of the delegation led by Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi last year. We discussed her unique role in moving Myanmar toward a nation of freedom, human rights and peace. Since then, there has been a tragic increase in the persecution of the Rohingya people, and a failure of the leaders in Myanmar to take action against it. “The Resolution calls on the government to take immediate and necessary steps to halt all hostilities by Burmese authorities – which must include military forces. “Additionally, the measure encourages Aung San Suu Kyi to live up to her impressive words while receiving the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize. In that regard, I think we should echo the plea of another warrior for peace whom I’ve been privileged to know, Bishop Desmond Tutu. He said to Aung San Suu Kyi: ‘My dear sister: If the political price of your ascension to the highest office in Myanmar is your silence, the price is surely too steep.’” An identical resolution has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Durbin and McCain. The full text of Rep. Levin’s House resolution can be found here. ###
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Following Ways and Means Committee Democrats’ request last week to Chairman Brady to hold bipartisan hearings on stabilizing the individual health insurance market, Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) again pressed the Chairman to take action and hold hearings on this topic in the Ways and Means Committee. “Americans want Congress to put partisanship behind us and move forward with commonsense initiatives on health care that benefit all American families,” said Rep. Neal. “A bipartisan hearing would be a good first step to help stabilize individual insurance markets, lower health insurance premiums, shore up exchanges, and protect Medicaid.” “We must not ignore this Committee’s responsibility to take action to strengthen the individual insurance markets that have been weakened by the President’s actions and threats,” said Rep. Levin. “Republicans and Democrats in the Senate have begun to undertake such an effort. We should too.” The full text of the Committee Democrats’ letter can be found here. The text of Rep. Levin’s remarks at yesterday’s markup can be found here. ###
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member, today sent the following letter to CMS Administrator Seema Verma regarding the 2018 budgets for Affordable Care Act (ACA) Navigator organizations. A Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) bulletin released August 31 indicated that funding for advertising and educational activities will be subject to a 90 percent cut, with additional cuts for Navigator organizations. “Based on conversations my staff has had with Navigators in Michigan, this is creating confusion and hindering their ability to plan for the next Open Enrollment Period, which begins on November 1st,” wrote Rep. Levin. “Further, news reports indicate that CMS’s failure to provide funding to Navigator organizations is having an immediate negative impact, with some Navigators finding themselves forced to lay off experienced staff, cancel planned community outreach events, and postpone appointments with consumers who qualify for a special enrollment period or who need assistance enrolling in a Medicaid plan. A PDF version of the letter is available online, and the text is below. September 8, 2017 Seema Verma Administrator Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Hubert H. Humphrey Building 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Administrator Verma: I am deeply troubled by an August 31st, 2017 bulletin released by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announcing cuts to important programs that support enrollment in Marketplace coverage under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The bulletin states that funding for advertising and educational activities will be subject to a 90 percent cut, while Navigator organizations will be subject to a new funding methodology that could reduce grant funding by approximately 40 percent. This announcement comes only weeks before this year’s Open Enrollment Period, creating tremendous uncertainty at a critical moment. Cuts to Navigators will be particularly harmful to the people of my home state of Michigan. Since passage of the ACA, thousands of Michiganders have benefited from in-person assistance, phone counseling, and other important services provided by Navigator organizations. These programs have expanded access to coverage to vulnerable populations, individuals with disabilities, and young adults, many of whom would otherwise be uninsured without the assistance of Navigators. CMS’s unexpected announcement was inconsistent with previous statements by federal officials. Navigators report that they have yet to receive clarification regarding the extent to which expected funding will be available for the coming year. Based on conversations my staff has had with Navigators in Michigan, this is creating confusion and hindering their ability to plan for the next Open Enrollment Period, which begins on November 1st. Further, news reports indicate that CMS’s failure to provide funding to Navigator organizations is having an immediate negative impact, with some Navigators finding themselves forced to lay off experienced staff, cancel planned community outreach events, and postpone appointments with consumers who qualify for a special enrollment period or who need assistance enrolling in a Medicaid plan. Due to the importance of this matter to my constituents and to health care consumers across the country, I request your response to the following questions: Will you provide an empirical justification for the new methodology for determining funding, including a clear link to how it is projected to impact enrollment in Marketplace coverage? Can you provide projections of the impact of the cut in navigator funding combined with the near elimination of funding for advertising and educational activities? When does CMS intend to notify Navigator organizations of the specific changes to their grants for the coming year, including a clear explanation of the extent to which their funding will decrease? Navigator grants for 2016-17 ran through September 1st, but have not yet been announced for the current year. Will grants be backdated to September 2nd to ensure Navigators receive funding during the period in between the end of the 2016-17 grant year and the commencement of the 2017-18 grant year? Will Navigators be permitted to utilize unspent funds from the 2016-17 grant year in support of this year’s enrollment activities? Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter. ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member, today released the following report from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Inspector General (OIG) on Medicare Part B prescription drug prices. The report examined how much the Medicare Part B program could have saved if pharmaceutical manufacturers that raise drug prices faster than inflation had been required to pay a rebate for those price increases. The OIG found that Medicare could have saved up to $1.8 billion in 2015 alone, if this good-governance practice were put into law. “We constantly see reports and hear concerns from seniors about the continued rising costs of prescription drugs,” said Rep. Levin. “Congress should act to implement commonsense reforms to discourage drug manufacturers from imposing huge cost increases, and this report provides a first step toward that goal. It’s past time for Congress to act to lower the cost of prescription drugs.” The report examined a subset of the most common prescription drugs, those which account for 81 percent of expenditures. In 2015, Medicare and beneficiaries spent a total of $28.5 billion for Part B drugs. Levin and former Rep. Jim McDermott wrote HHS in 2016 asking them to examine the potential savings from inflation-indexed rebates. Federal law requires Medicaid prescription drug manufacturers to pay a rebate if average manufacturer prices (AMP) increase faster than inflation. There is no such law protecting Medicare Part B prescription drugs from similar increases. The pdf version of the report can be found here. The text of Rep. Levin and McDermott’s original letter to HHS requesting the report is available here. ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program within six months: “President Trump’s decision is reprehensible. “Instead of taking the lead and pledging to work with Congress to make sure that 800,000 young people can live out their dreams in the only nation they have really known, the President puts forth the whip of deportation. “Congress must now work together and act because this not what America stands for, not only for 800,000 dreamers, but for all of us in America as each of us lives out our own dreams, as did those who came before us.” ###
08.30.2017	ROSEVILLE, MI – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s speech on tax reform: “The President was long on rhetoric, and most often strikingly short on detail. He was painfully vague in his discussion about middle-class tax-relief. Contrary to his rhetoric, his plan would open the door to massive tax cuts for the very wealthy. Talk about closing loopholes without mentioning any of them is totally disingenuous. His calls for bipartisanship came at the same time there has not been a scintilla of bipartisanship so far in the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. That must change right now.” ###
08.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, August 24, 2017, Representatives John Conyers, Jr., Sander Levin, Dan Kildee, Debbie Dingell, and Brenda Lawrence, filed an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies appropriations bill to prevent Federal funds from being used to implement key sections of President Trump’s travel ban. This includes the provisions known as the Muslim ban and the provisions that effectively shut down the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program. In addition to the amendment, the Members released the following joint statement: “In the wake of Charlottesville, Americans across the country must unite in opposition to discrimination and bigotry in all its forms. Today, we ask House leadership to allow a vote on our amendment, so that Republicans and Democrats can stand together and finally put an end to President Trump’s Executive Order, that bans Muslims and refugees from the United States. This order fails the test of moral leadership, and it does not represent who we are as a Nation. After the events in Charlottesville, this is clearer than ever.” Put simply, this Executive Order is bad policy and it makes our country less safe, and a growing chorus of foreign policy experts has condemned Trump’s Muslim and refugee ban as disastrous for U.S. foreign policy and national security. Full text of the submitted amendment is available here.
08.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement after reports that Steve Bannon would no longer serve as Chief Strategist at the White House: “Steve Bannon’s exit from the White House is long overdue. However, given President Trump’s agenda and especially after his comments this past week about the violence in Charlottesville, he has much more work to do to convince the American people that he eschews racism, homophobia, xenophobia, and anti-Semitism, and is working to unite – not divide – our country.” Yesterday, Rep. Levin led a group of 17 other Jewish Members of Congress calling on the President to fight racism and anti-Semitism. Levin criticized Bannon’s appointment when it was announced in November 2016. ###
08.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), along with Reps. Nita Lowey, Eliot Engel, Jerrold Nadler, Debbie Wasserman Shultz, John Yarmuth, Ted Deutch, Adam Schiff, Lois Frankel, Alan Lowenthal, Jacky Rosen, David Cicilline, Bradley Schneider, Susan Davis, Brad Sherman, Jamie Raskin, Jan Schakowsky, and Josh Gottheimer today sent a letter to President Trump regarding his recent comments on the protests and violence perpetuated by white supremacists in Charlottesville, Virginia. “As the leader of our nation, it is incumbent upon you to stand up to hate, not provide legitimacy to those who violently perpetrate it,” the Members wrote. They continued: “In the strongest possible terms, we urge you to consistently and unequivocally fight against racists and anti-Semites. Anything less is beneath the dignity of your office and the ideals of our great nation.” The full text of the letter is below, and a pdf of the letter is attached here. Dear President Trump: We are deeply troubled by your statement blaming "both sides" for the deadly violence in Charlottesville, Virginia. Your statements show a deep misunderstanding of history and a fundamental lack of moral compass. As the leader of our nation, it is incumbent upon you to stand up to hate, not provide legitimacy to those who violently perpetrate it. You have now twice equated neo-Nazis shouting anti-Semitic and racist slurs as they waved swastika flags to the counter-protesters who gathered to resist them. You have described some of the white supremacist marchers as “very fine people,” only a few days after a woman was murdered and many others severely injured, by one of those same white supremacists. Two state troopers also died that day in the line of duty. The man who has been charged in the death of Heather Heyer went to that rally knowing that he would find scores of people -- white supremacists, just like him --spewing hate-filled, racist, and anti-Semitic lies. Many other groups and individuals with similar anti-Semitic and racist messages were also in attendance, including former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke. Their actions caused immeasurable pain and suffering to Heather Heyer’s family, and to all who believe in equality for all Americans. Some of us are related to Holocaust survivors. All of us know them, and are privileged to represent them. They know how hateful, incendiary rhetoric leads to violence. Heather Heyer's death is another powerful and painful reminder. In the strongest possible terms, we urge you to consistently and unequivocally fight against racists and anti-Semites. Anything less is beneath the dignity of your office and the ideals of our great nation. We urge you to stand with us on the right side of history. ###
08.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement in response to release of the review of Unemployment Insurance (UI) fraud cases conducted by the Michigan Unemployment Insurance Agency (UIA). “After intense pressure, we are seeing some progress in addressing a huge scandal that left tens of thousands of Michiganders wrongly accused of fraud by a deeply flawed system. While this should never have happened, it is a positive step that the state is repaying nearly $21 million to those individuals who were harmed by this false fraud accusation,” said Rep. Levin. “However, significant questions still remain about the enormous growth in the state’s fund for collecting fraud penalties during the period of this review, previous information on the scope of this review, and how the State determined fraud in those cases that were not overturned during this review. I have been seeking for some time answers to these questions, and will continue to do so.” Since his April 2016 letter to the Governor, Rep. Levin has continued to call for a full review of fraud determinations made when the automated computer system, the Michigan Integrated Data Automated System (MiDAS), was in use. In this most recent set of data released, the State reviewed 62,784 cases representing 49,910 individuals. According to UIA data, fraud determinations were overturned about 70% of the time. Previously, the state had noted that the universe of cases was 53,633. The state fund collecting Penalties and Interest has grown from $3 million in 2011 to over $160 million, and the state has shifted these funds to help balance the budget. ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today announced that Nick Gwyn will be his new Chief of Staff taking over for Hilarie Chambers, who has taken a new position with a non-profit organization in Michigan. Rep. Levin said: “I have worked with Nick Gwyn for nearly 20 years on issues affecting Americans struggling to make a better life for themselves and their children, including the most comprehensive package of federal unemployment benefits ever enacted, which he helped shape in response to the ‘Great Recession.’ He has a keen understanding of the many issues coming before the Committee on Ways and Means, and I am therefore grateful that I will be able to rely on his good counsel and dedication. “Hilarie Chambers has been a truly remarkable and exceptional Chief of Staff. She has utilized her uncanny ability and imagination to connect the dots on critical, complex public issues. Hilarie has been a vital participant in all of my work in my various positions on the Ways and Means Committee, from health and trade reform, thwarting privatization of social security, and beyond. She returns to Michigan after being a vital link in so many activities of particular significance to our district. Hilarie takes on new challenges at home in Michigan with the fullest and enthusiastic gratitude of all privileged to work with her over these 25 years.” Nick Gwyn has been Levin’s Senior Advisor since the beginning of the year after leaving the position of Democratic Chief of Staff for the Committee on Ways and Means. He also served for 17 years as the Democratic Staff Director for the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources, and prior to that, as Senior Legislative Assistant for Rep. Barbara Kennelly. Hilarie Chambers has worked for Rep. Levin for over 25 years, much of the time as his Chief of Staff. She is now assuming the position of Executive Director for Reading Works, which focuses on promoting adult literacy in southeastern Michigan. ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on the departure of Chief International Trade Counsel Jason Kearns from the Committee on Ways Means. Jason has been nominated to serve as a Member of the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC): “For over a decade, Jason has provided insightful analysis in helping us navigate trade issues. He has been a key part of efforts to take on the challenge of adapting trade laws to new conditions in a rapidly globalizing economy. His knowledge and work ethic have been indispensable to the Committee as the U.S. has considered specific trade deals from CAFTA to TPP and now, the renegotiation of NAFTA. The ITC will only benefit from his experience and talents once he is confirmed.” ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today announced the St. Clair Shores Fire Department has been awarded an Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) for $631,819 from the Department of Homeland Security. The funding will be used to acquire a new ladder truck. “Our firefighters can best keep communities safe when they have the most up to date equipment – including ladder trucks — which are critical to effectively and safely fighting fires,” said Rep. Levin. “On behalf of the St. Clair Shores Fire Department, I would like to express profound gratitude upon receipt of this award. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) has enabled our community to acquire equipment and vehicles that we would not otherwise be able to purchase. We thank leaders like Sens. Stabenow, Peters, and Congressman Levin for their support of this very important funding program,” said Interim Fire Chief Ryan Koepp. “We are very happy that the hard working people of St. Clair Shores are being rewarded for the ongoing support of their fire department. We understand that this award comes with a great amount of responsibility, and we are continually committed to good stewardship of the people’s money.” The AFG Program is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. These grants are awarded directly to fire and public safety departments to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public and first-responder personnel. Since 2001, AFG has provided about $6.7 billion to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today introduced a resolution urging China to release Liu Xia, the widow of activist and Nobel Prize Winner Liu Xiaobo. Liu Xia has been held in extralegal house arrest since October 2010. “Chinese authorities have kept Liu Xia under house arrest for years. I urge them to allow Liu Xia freedom of movement, including freedom to leave China according to her wishes, and to establish a place of residence of her choosing,” said Rep. Levin. The resolution expresses concern for the wellbeing of Liu Xia, who has suffered from illnesses, including severe depression and a heart condition since at least 2013. It is not known if Liu Xia has received adequate treatment for her conditions while under house arrest. The text of the resolution can be found here. ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) issued the following statement in response to the joint release from Congressional Republicans and the Administration on tax reform: “As the American people have witnessed during the debate on health care, where the lack of any credible Republican alternative is painfully obvious, today’s GOP announcement on taxes once again shows they have no real plan. A few vague paragraphs isn’t even a “broad strokes” proposal – it’s more like finger painting. “But even as Republicans lack basic details on a huge range of important tax issues, the general direction they want to go is clear from previous statements and policies. President Trump and Congressional Republicans believe that tax reform means giving the very wealthy huge, new tax breaks. You see that basic effect when you look at the revenue changes in the Republican health bill passed by the House, or the tax proposals put forward by the House Republican leadership last year, or President Trump’s proposal to eliminate the estate tax for very wealthy households. “Democrats believe that tax reform should be designed to strengthen and build the middle class, not build the bank accounts of the wealthiest Americans.” ###
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today reintroduced legislation to tighten restrictions on corporate tax inversions, limiting the ability of American companies to evade U.S. taxes by combining with a smaller foreign business and moving their tax address overseas. “Inversions do long-term harm to our economy by eroding our tax base and hurting our ability to invest in America. This loophole illustrates perfectly why so many Americans believe that big corporations play by a different set of rules than everyone else. Middle class Americans should not be left to fill the hole in our tax base left by companies that invert,” said Rep. Levin. A version of the legislation introduced in 2015 was estimated to save the U.S. nearly $34 billion, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. Co-sponsors of the bill include Reps. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Adam Schiff (D-CA), and Louise Slaughter (D-NY). Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. The Stop Corporate Inversions Act: The legislation closes a loophole used by companies to unfairly lower U.S. taxes. The legislation treats a combined foreign corporation as a domestic corporation if the historic shareholders of the U.S. corporation own more than 50 percent of the new combined entity. Regardless of the percentage ownership in the new combined corporation, if the affiliated group that includes the combined foreign corporation is managed and controlled in the United States and engages in significant domestic business activities in the United States, the U.S. corporation cannot invert under the legislation, and the combined entity would be treated as a domestic corporation. As under current law, the legislation would maintain the substantial business exception under Section 7874 if the combined foreign corporation has substantial business activities in the foreign country where the combined entity is incorporated. Background: Congress enacted Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code in 2004 as a way to discourage U.S. companies from acquiring smaller foreign companies and moving their tax home to a foreign jurisdiction to dodge U.S. taxes. Since the provision was enacted in 2004, there have been more than 50 corporate inversions, according to Bloomberg. In more recent years, the Obama Administration took additional steps to limit corporate inversions. However, in April, President Trump issued an executive order requiring the review of several Department of Treasury Regulations issued by the Obama Administration, including those related to limiting inversions. ###
07.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s speech on health care: “Trying to pressure Republicans to carry out a campaign promise that they have been making for seven years, the President perpetuated falsehoods about the Affordable Care Act. He selected stories of some Americans who have had a difficult time with health insurance, while totally ignoring that nonpartisan analyses have found that 22, 23, or 32 million Americans could lose health insurance under various Republican plans. “Contrary to what the President said, the ACA is not collapsing, even as his Administration tries to sabotage it. There are ways to strengthen the ACA for all Americans; Republicans should move past the rhetoric of repeal and instead enter into bipartisan conversations of how together, we can strengthen this law for all Americans.” Rep. Levin was the Chair of the House Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010. ###
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on health, today issued the following statement in response to the report issued by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office the latest version of the Senate Trumpcare bill: “The latest estimate from the Congressional Budget Office shines a big red light on how the Republican plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act would do the opposite of everything they claim to support. The GOP repeal plan would double health care premiums, not lower them. It would slash health coverage, not increase it. And it would push health plans out of the market, leaving three out of four Americans with no option at all, rather than increasing choice. Their plan would be the real death spiral for our health care system. “Once Republicans get past their obsession with repealing and sabotaging the ACA, we might finally get to some constructive conversations about strengthening the law.” Rep. Levin was the Chair of the House Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010. ###
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today issued the following statement in response to the State Court of Appeals’ ruling to uphold the statute of limitations for those wrongly accused of fraud in the unemployment insurance system between October 2013 and August 4, 2015. “This very disappointing decision by a three-judge panel denies justice to thousands of Michiganders who were wrongly accused of fraud and often subjected to enormous fines, garnished wages and seized tax returns. “I understand that the plaintiffs intend to appeal this decision to the Michigan Supreme Court. While I hope the Supreme Court will come to a different conclusion, I strongly believe that Governor Snyder and Attorney General Schuette owe the thousands of people whose lives were upended by the State’s false accusations of fraud an explanation as to why they chose to contest their ability to seek damages for the very real harm done to them. Better yet, the Governor and the Attorney General could still do the right thing and pursue a fair settlement for those so harmed by the State’s policies. By the State’s own admission, the computer system in charge of finding fraud had an enormous error rate, and the Governor and Attorney General must make whole those who were hurt.” Rep. Levin called on the State to investigate the Michigan Integrated Data Automated System (MiDAS) system in a letter to the Governor on April 25th, 2016. The review was required by the U.S. Department of Labor and initiated after a February 2016 Michigan Auditor General report found that computer-determined fraud was affirmed in only 8 percent of cases that were appealed. ###
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement on the failed efforts of Senate Republicans to repeal and replace, or repeal, the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “This welcome news that the Senate Republicans have failed in their efforts to repeal the ACA reflects the overwhelming response from our constituents. Like so many others, I have heard what health care means to families, people with disabilities, seniors, as well as to doctors and hospitals. It is a testament to the hard work that we put into the development of health care for over 20 million uninsured individuals.” Rep. Levin was the Chair of the House Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010. ###
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on the Summary of Objectives for the NAFTA Renegotiation as published by the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR): “Mexico has used their workers having no rights and suppressing labor costs as a key part of their industrial policy. That has been the harmful effect of NAFTA for both workers in Mexico and surely in the U.S., costing many, many, American jobs. There is nothing in the Summary that assures in these vital aspects that a new NAFTA will be different than the old, and statements from USTR have undermined the certainty of real change.” ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on his vote against the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “This bill on defense spending, because of its size, will have a major impact on vital domestic programs, which remain subject to spending caps. This is particularly true since there is no overall budget for domestic programs other than President Trump’s plan, which would slash funding for medical research, Medicaid, job training, food assistance, and many other programs that help our communities and families. We will not be able to ensure the strength and safety of our country, as we must, while tearing down vital programs for American families.” ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on reports of the death of Nobel Peace Prize winner and Chinese democracy activist Liu Xiaobo “As a former Co-Chair of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China which repeatedly advocated for Liu’s release, I mourn the passing of an incomparably courageous advocate who dedicated his life to advancing basic human rights. “The Chinese writer, Nobel Peace Prize recipient, and democracy advocate Liu Xiaobo was an inspirations to millions of people around the globe. History will remember Liu as a giant who sought to advance the debate on democratic governance, human rights, and rule of law in China, and for the way Chinese authorities mistreated him and other human rights advocates. “For the last decade of his life, Liu was imprisoned by Chinese authorities, often in secret locations, on trumped-up charges of inciting subversion of state power for his thoughtful advocacy for reform, and for his support of the pro-democracy document Charter 08. Over the years, Chinese authorities also relentlessly harassed his wife, Liu Xia, often keeping her in isolation, under house arrest for weeks at a time. In June 2017, Chinese authorities revealed Liu’s terminal cancer condition after it was beyond treatment, and kept him under guard during Liu’s final weeks. “On the final day of his trumped-up trial and sentencing, Liu said: ‘I look forward to when my country is a land with freedom of expression; where every citizen's speech will be treated equally well; where different values, ideas, beliefs, and political views ... can compete with one another and coexist peacefully; ... where all political views will be spread out under the sun for the people to choose from; where every citizen can express political views without fear; and where under no circumstances can one suffer political persecution for expressing different political views.’ “We must work to help his fervent wishes come true.” ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement on the 2017 Medicare Trustees Report: “The Medicare Trustees Report highlights the success of the Affordable Care Act in placing the Medicare program on sounder financial footing. It is also a stark reminder of the harmful consequences of Republican proposals to roll back this progress by raiding the Trust Fund to finance tax cuts for the wealthy, as voted on by my House colleagues. Moreover, the Trustees Report underscores the urgent need for Congress to act to rein in prescription drug costs, which contributed to an increase in Part D spending. Continued inaction by Congress and the Trump Administration to address this crisis threatens both the future of Medicare and the overall health security of the American people.”
07.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), today released the following statement on the U.S. District Court’s opinion regarding the enforcement of orders of removal against Iraqi immigrants, many of whom are Chaldean: “I applaud the decision of the District Court to assert jurisdiction and provide an injunction against the deportation of Chaldeans and other Iraqi nationals because of the extraordinary danger that exists for them if they are sent to Iraq. The decision rightfully notes that absent such an effort a basic right of our Constitution – a right to a day in court – would be violated. “This order will allow the court to learn all of the facts related to these individuals who were arrested for deportation after living in the U.S. for many years, and in some cases, decades.” ###
07.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), today wrote to the Immigration Control and Enforcement (ICE) Detroit Field Office in response to recent reports that detained Iraqi Americans, many of whom are Chaldean, are not provided regular contact with their attorneys and families. The letter also reiterated Levin’s previous request for key information about the detainees. “As you know, many of those detained from the Metro Detroit area have significant ties to the community, including spouses and children who are U.S. citizens. I am informed that a large number of these individuals are now being held in Arizona making family visitation and attorney meetings nearly impossible with others remaining in Youngstown, Ohio which is still over 200 miles from their homes and families. There were also reports that their phone service was cut off for a number of days,” Levin wrote. “I strongly urge your office to ensure that those detained have the ability to regularly contact their attorneys and family members, including by considering holding them in a facility closer to their homes and families.” Levin first requested information regarding those arrested on a June 12 call with the Detroit office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), and followed up that call with multiple emails and a formal letter on June 16. On June 14, he and several other Michigan Members of Congress sent a letter requesting the agreement between Iraq and the U.S. for deportees. On June 28, he submitted a FOIA request to ICE key information on the Iraqi Americans from the metro-Detroit area arrested and slated for deportation, and unclassified communication relating to any agreements on the repatriation of Iraqis residing in the U.S A pdf version of the letter is available here, and the full text is below: Dear Director Adducci: I am writing regarding recent reports raising concerns about the ability of Chaldeans and other Iraqi nationals being detained for deportation to have regular contact with their families and attorneys, as well as to reiterate my request for specific information regarding the detainees. As you know, many of those detained from the Metro Detroit area have significant ties to the community, including spouses and children who are U.S. citizens. I am informed that a large number of these individuals are now being held in Arizona making family visitation and attorney meetings nearly impossible with others remaining in Youngstown, Ohio which is still over 200 miles from their homes and families. There were also reports that their phone service was cut off for a number of days. I strongly urge your office to ensure that those detained have the ability to regularly contact their attorneys and family members, including by considering holding them in a facility closer to their homes and families. I would appreciate your sending me the latest information on where the detainees are being held and details as to their ability to be visited by family and attorneys and be in touch by phone. Both ICE and more recently the Department of Justice’s civil division have made selective public statements with asserted details related to these individuals, while failing to make public broader information about their status. Therefore, I am reiterating a repeated request that your office provide information on the Iraqi nationals now being detained from the Metro-Detroit community: Name Case number Date of Order of Deportation Age Gender Age when arrived in US Occupation Whether married Number and age of children Legal status of spouse and children (i.e. US citizen, green card holder) Crime that forms the basis for deportation When sentenced and actual sentence received If probation, any violations of probation Any additional sentence for the violation Status of check-ins with ICE Extent of family in Iraq When last visited Iraq If you don’t have each item for each individual, or do not wish to provide identifying information, please just indicate that and immediately send what information you have available. As you are aware, there is deep concern over the actions taken by your office to suddenly detain 114 Iraqi nationals in preparation to deport them to a potentially life-threatening situation in Iraq. I therefore request a response to this letter as soon as you are able to provide one. Sincerely, Sander Levin ###
07.06.2017	ROYAL OAK, MI – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin and U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow were today joined at Beaumont Health in Royal Oak by constituents who shared personal stories of how the protections provided for in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) helped them have affordable, quality health insurance in their time of need. Republicans have passed legislation in the U.S. House and are negotiating a bill in the U.S. Senate that would “repeal and replace,” the Affordable Care Act. "This is a great country, and it became greater when we passed ACA. For us now to rip it up and essentially tell people they’re on their own, it would be a step back in the greatness of our country,” said Rep. Levin. “Everybody has a right to see a physician, to have preventive care, to not essentially be second class. Everybody in this country is a first class person in terms of needing health care.” Thanks to the ACA, the uninsured rate in Michigan has dropped from 12.4% in 2010 to 6.1% in 2015. More than 660,000 Michiganders have insurance thanks to the Medicaid expansion, Healthy Michigan, and about another 321,000 purchased insurance through the exchange. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that 22 million Americans would lose coverage under the Senate Republican ACA repeal plan. At the event, several individuals shared how the ACA has helped them and their families. They were joined by others who did not speak, but had similar stories. A brief summary of those who spoke is below: Lindsay Helfman, Hazel Park: The ACA has impacted nearly everyone in my family. When I was 13, my mom decided to go back to school to get a degree as a Physician’s Assistant, to earn more money for our college educations and to buy a house (we had been living with my Grandma). When she went back to school we lost our insurance. If we had to see a dentist or a doctor my mom paid out of pocket. This meant that we really only sought care if it was absolutely essential. I’m currently a graduate student. I bought a policy in 2013 because my husband and I wanted to have a child. After my daughter was born, my family qualified for Medicaid under the expansion. I literally cannot express the peace of mind that I have because my daughter can access routine and emergency medical care because of the ACA and Medicaid expansion. Stefanie Mezigian, Livonia: For my entire adult life, I have worked in the customer service industry. I've never worked for an employer who has offered healthcare coverage, so until the ACA was passed, I never had healthcare coverage. Through the ACA I was able to purchase a silver plan through Total Health Care. In December of 2015, the apartment building in which I lived had a fire. I was trapped inside of the burning apartment building. I jumped, and was taken by ambulance to Beaumont Hospital with an open fracture of the left ankle, a shattered heel bone, and a broken back. I had three surgeries and months of therapies, all covered by my ACA plan. In October of 2016 I had a 3rd and final surgery on my foot. At this point, I had been out of work for almost a year, and I was covered by a Healthy Michigan plan for the remainder of 2016. I am currently covered under the Medicaid expansion. Without this critical healthcare coverage, I would have been saddled with over $700,000 in medical bills. I would be bankrupt. I might not have my left foot, and I may not have been able to relearn how to walk. Rachel Charette, Grosse Pointe Farms: Our beautiful baby girl was born in Detroit, Michigan on July 8, 2015. On July 9th, one of the most frightening days of our lives, she had to be transported via ambulance from our hospital to the Children's Hospital NICU to prepare for emergency heart surgery. Three lengthy hospital stays and as many open heart surgeries later, our beautiful baby is a healthy and thriving toddler with a St. Jude mechanical mitral valve. She will need to take coumadin (blood thinner) her whole life, take sildenafil for blood pressure, and avoid contact sports. Her hospital stays and medications totaled well over a million dollars - closer to two. Without Obamacare, our family would be bankrupt, worrying about how to pay for her life saving medications. I cannot express how stressful and gut-wrenching a time this was for my family. I am thankful every day for Obamacare Kevin Wittenbrodt, Warren: I'm a Marine Corps Veteran and I'm covered by the VA Health System but my wife isn't. She has Kidney Disease and I've found it hard to get coverage for her with the preexisting condition. The VA won't cover her, and Social Security ruled she wasn't disabled, but I found an affordable plan under the ACA. This allows for continued treatment and she's still with me. Ed Weberman, Farmington Hills: In May 2015, our youngest son Alex, then 22 years old, was diagnosed with an aggressive form of Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. To try to save his life, it was necessary to start aggressive treatment immediately. Alex had just recently graduated from Eastern Michigan University and had not yet secured a job with health benefits. Fortunately, because of the Affordable Care Act, we were able to maintain Alex on the health plan my wife. If it wasn’t for the ACA, Alex could not have stayed on her policy and he could not have afforded to secure his own health coverage. After a series of treatments, Alex received his “no evidence of cancer” news in October 2015. Since that time, he has needed regular testing to confirm that the cancer has not come back and he has been hospitalized twice for intestinal bowel blockages related to the impact of the chemotherapy treatments. To date, his medical costs are approaching $400,000 over the last year and a half…and he is only 24 years old. Up to now, except for approximately $175 of co-pays and the approximately $600 per month that my wife must contribute toward her healthcare insurance, all of these charges have been covered by our health insurance. Deborah Garrett, Roseville. My story regarding ACA is not uncommon. I am a person in long-term recovery from an addiction, which if ACA is repealed may be a pre-existing condition. I also have a genetic growth disorder, Turner's syndrome. When I applied for insurance through the health insurance exchange, I was in school (I have since graduated with my Bachelors in Science) and was working two part time jobs, neither of which offered benefits. My father had been diagnosed with colon cancer and all of my siblings were advised to get screened. I was able to do that because I had access to health insurance. ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement on the extended Congressional Budget Office report on the Medicaid provisions in Senate Trumpcare bill, which provides projections from 10-20 years, or from 2027-2036: “This extended CBO estimate shows how deeply destructive the Senate bill is over the long run to America’s health. The bill’s very harsh cuts to Medicaid in the first ten years get even worse over the following decade – threatening health care for children, individuals with disabilities, and seniors needing nursing home care. Under the Senate bill, like the bill passed by the House, these draconian cuts in health care assistance for the American people are used to pay for tax cuts for wealthy individuals and corporations. “This adds to the ever-growing mountain of evidence that the Senate bill is far too broken to be fixed. It is time for Republicans in Congress to stop trying to repeal health coverage for the American people and to start working with Democrats to strengthen and improve the Affordable Care Act.” Rep. Levin was the Chair of the House Ways and Means Committee when the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010. ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today introduced the Medicare Dental, Vision, and Hearing Benefit Act of 2017 [H.R. 3111]. The bill would repeal the statutory exclusion on coverage of important items and services and expand the Medicare benefit package to include dental, vision, and hearing care. “Seniors are often unpleasantly surprised to find that their Medicare benefits do not include the overwhelming majority of dental, vision, and hearing care. The time has come to expand Medicare’s coverage to include these services that are so important to the overall health of seniors. This will improve the quality of their lives, while also reducing more serious and costly ailments,” said Rep. Levin. The current gap in Medicare coverage has harmful consequences for older Americans. Poor dental care is closely associated with systemic health problems, such as cardiovascular disease or diabetes. Vision loss is the third leading chronic condition among older adults and is closely associated with clinical depression, injuries due to falls, and loss of cognitive function. Hearing loss is a socially isolating condition that impacts about two-thirds of older Americans, yet only about 30 percent of individuals who could benefit from a hearing aid actually utilize one. The Medicare Dental, Vision, and Hearing Benefit Act [H.R. 3111] would close gaps in coverage that for decades have limited access to care for millions of Americans. It phases in an expansion of the Medicare benefit package to provide all beneficiaries with access to crucial items and services that will help improve their overall health and wellbeing. At its introduction, the bill is cosponsored by Ways and Means Ranking Member Neal, as well as Reps. Lewis, Blumenauer, Pascrell, Danny Davis, Higgins, Sewell, and Chu. The full text of the bill is available here. A factsheet on the bill can be found here. ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today submitted a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The FOIA request seeks key information on the Iraqi Americans from the metro-Detroit area arrested and slated for deportation, and unclassified communication relating to any agreements on the repatriation of Iraqis residing in the U.S. “ICE has arrested 114 mostly Christian Iraqi immigrants without any notice, claiming they represent a security risk without sharing any evidence,” Levin said. These individuals have lived many years in the US, if not many decades, and many have spouses and children who are American citizens. We need a full accounting of whom these individuals are, and what steps might be taken to provide for their safety if deported to a place representing for them immediate danger.” Levin first requested information regarding those arrested on a June 12 call with the Detroit office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), and followed up that call with multiple emails and a formal letter on June 16. On June 14, he and several other Michigan Members of Congress sent a letter requesting the agreement between Iraq and the U.S. for deportees. A PDF of the FOIA request is available here and is below: Dear Mr. Holzer: Pursuant to the federal Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552, I hereby request that your office produce, within 20 business days, the following records: 1. All records of unclassified communications and materials relating to the detention, arrest, and removal of Iraqi nationals in the metro Detroit area, starting on or about February 1st, 2017, through June 28, 2017, to include the following information for each person detained, arrested, or subjected to removal: 1. Name 2. Case number 3. Date of final order of deportation 4. Age 5. Gender 6. Age when arrived in the U.S. 7. Occupation 8. Marital Status 9. Number and age of children 10. Legal status of spouse and children 11. Crime(s) that form(s)the basis for removal, date and sentence 12. If probation or parole, any violation 13. Status of check-ins with Immigration and Customs Enforcement 14. Extent of family in Iraq 15. When last visited Iraq 2. All records of unclassified communications and materials relating to any agreements on the repatriation of Iraqi nationals residing in the United States to the Republic of Iraq, including emails, official statements, documents, announcements, and memoranda. I request a fee waiver pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(A)(iii), because disclosure of requested information is in the public interest. I submit this request as a Member of Congress representing the 9th Congressional District of Michigan, where many of my constituents are family members of the Iraqi nationals detained, arrested, or subjected to removal by the Department of Homeland Security. The requested information is in my constituents’ interest and will contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations and activities of the government. If you make a determination that any information requested is exempt from disclosure entirely or partially, I ask that you provide the reason for such exclusion, and provide all information requested in a form that does not violate privacy or any other basis for exemption. Please contact me by phone or email if you require any additional information. I can be best reached at 202 225 4961. Sincerely, Sander Levin Member of Congress ###
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today gave the following remarks during the U.S. Trade Representative’s hearing on NAFTA renegotiation: (remarks as prepared) “Some come before you today with the view that NAFTA needs a tune up. While I agree we need to address some issues that were not part of the trade debate two decades ago, I come before you as someone who believes that NAFTA needs a major overhaul. And re-negotiation must start with the core issue it failed to get right over twenty years ago: labor standards. “When NAFTA negotiations started we were on the front side of a new era of globalization. Up until that time, most of our trade was with developed countries with economic systems more or less like our own. NAFTA represented something different – the first major trade agreement with a developing country where the conditions and standards were far different than those here. “Unfortunately, the concerns of those of us who opposed NAFTA – that without fully enforceable and fully enforced labor and environmental standards – we would just experience a rush to the bottom in search of the lowest wages – have come true. “There is no denying that the job loss caused by NAFTA is in large measure because of the huge wage differential between the two countries. “Consider the automotive sector which accounts for a majority of the trade deficit with Mexico. Mexican workers are paid 19 percent as much of their unionized U.S. counterparts, and at about $2.40 an hour, auto parts workers earn even less. “Auto sector employment in Mexico rose by 45 percent between 2007 and 2015, adding more than 200,000 hourly jobs, while the U.S. industry dropped 90,000 hourly jobs during the same period. Indeed, the number of auto jobs in the two countries is now converging: 620,000 in Mexico and 715,000 in the U.S. “And with Mexico’s auto output projected to double to more than 5 million vehicles annually by 2020, more U.S. jobs are at risk. To date, most of the production shift has involved small cars, but more profitable trucks and SUVs could also be increasingly affected. “Automation is not the driving force, and we are not trading low level assembly jobs for better paying high technology jobs. The opposite is true. “U.S. wages are being driven down by the depressed wages in Mexico. Why? Because the entire Mexican labor system is designed to prevent workers from obtaining their rights and bargaining for better wages and working conditions. It’s a system built around a government policy of suppressing workers’ rights to encourage investment. “An Agreement that was sold on the premise that it would improve conditions in Mexico and build a customer base to buy our products has failed. Between 1994 and 2011, wages and benefits for Mexican workers actually slid 20 percent while at the same time Mexican manufacturing productivity increased 80 percent. “If we do not address this major distortion in the marketplace, NAFTA will not be any different. “And it will fail to get the votes to pass in Congress. The majority of Democrats in the House opposed NAFTA for this very reason over 20 years ago, so we will be together in our insistence that the Mexican labor regime must be totally scrapped and re-built from the bottom up. “As one of the authors of the May 10th agreement on labor standards, I know that it was a ground breaking achievement because it was breaking the strangle hold of badly outdated 19th century economic theory on free trade. As you know, May 10th requires countries to adopt, maintain and enforce a number of basic international labor standards, including the right to collectively bargain, and environmental standards. “May 10th is the standard, but work must be put in now to achieve that standard. Mexico is so far out of compliance with May 10th that during the re-negotiation they must dismantle their current system. “In Mexico, the government, the union which is an arm of the majority political party, and often the employer are in collusion to create and maintain a sham system of so-called “protection contracts.” “A May 5, 2017 Bloomberg article highlighted a recent example of an entrenched system of protection contracts that can “trace their roots to the 1930s.” I am attaching the article to my testimony, but let me read a key section: At a ceremony at Mexico’s Los Pinos presidential residence in July 2014, BMW Chief Executive Officer Harald Krüger pledged to spend $1 billion to build a factory in the northern state of San Luis Potosí that will employ 1,500 workers. To mark the occasion, he presented President Enrique Peña Nieto with a model of a silver BMW race car. The German automaker had unwrapped its own gift two days earlier, a labor contract signed by a representative from the state chapter of the Confederación de Trabajadores de México (CTM), the country’s largest union confederation, and notarized by a Labor Ministry official. The document, which Bloomberg reviewed, sets a starting wage of about $1.10 per hour and a top wage of $2.53 for assembly-line workers. The starting rate is only a bit more than half the $2.04 an hour that is the average at Mexican auto plants, says Alex Covarrubias, a lecturer at the University of Sonora in Hermosillo. The paperwork was filed two years before BMW broke ground on the new plant, which will turn out $45,000 3 Series sedans. When workers begin to stream into the factory sometime next year, there’s a good chance most won’t know they belong to a union. So-called protection contracts— agreements negotiated between a company and a union that doesn’t legitimately represent workers—are illegal in the U.S. and Germany. But Lance Compa, a senior lecturer at Cornell’s School of Industrial and Labor Relations, says they’re standard operating procedure in Mexico, where deals are cut factory by factory rather than collectively across a company or industry. Experts say this is a primary reason that wages in the auto sector have stagnated in recent years, despite a fresh wave of investments by foreign carmakers, most recently by German and Japanese manufacturers. Mexico’s union bosses and politicians are more interested in keeping corporations happy than in raising the living standards of workers, Covarrubias argues. Protection contracts are a way to keep wages artificially low,” he says. “NAFTA re-negotiation must insist that every protection contract is eliminated and that workers are able to bargain collectively for a new contract. “In addition, Mexico’s system of labor boards, which are responsible for registering unions, approving strikes, and resolving labor disputes, is inefficient, politicized and corrupt. "The Conciliation and Arbitration Boards (CABs) stand as a major barrier to reform. They are biased and render non-independent decisions governing the rights of workers and unions. “And, while steps have been taken to change the Mexican constitution, those steps are far from complete and it is not clear the type of body that will replace the CABs. “To change this entrenched system that distorts competition between our two nations, May 10 must be a reality on the ground in Mexico. That means much more than ensuring the language is in a renegotiated NAFTA. We have seen the shortcomings of that approach in Colombia where labor conditions remain horrendous and there is no plan to insist they comply now that the FTA is in force. “Change to Mexico’s labor regime is not an issue for the time period after Congress votes and before the agreement comes into force. It is an issue for now. Any other approach will not even enable you to call NAFTA re-negotiated, and it will be vigorously opposed in Congress and in America’s heartland. “Finally, there are certainly other important issues in any re-negotiation. Issues like investment, currency, Rules of Origin, environmental standards, Buy America, intellectual property, including medicines, are important and I will be saying more about them during this 90 day period. “But if the Administration doesn’t move past its current rhetoric that any changes to labor laws in Mexico might be difficult and run into issues of another country’s “sovereignty,” your efforts at re-negotiation will stall. “The re-negotiation of NAFTA took on a new urgency with the news last week that Ford Motor Company would build the Focus in China and import it to the United States rather than doing so as previously planned in Mexico. “The implications of this move for both the path of globalization and the United States are worrisome and it makes the effective re-negotiation of NAFTA all the more important. If you fail to address an issue at the core of the debate over shaping globalization so that it is not built on the backs of workers, we will not be in any position to address the threat posed by China. “We must not miss this opportunity to use a new NAFTA as a model for addressing labor rights as part of global trade. If we finally get it right with NAFTA, we can move on through the global trading system and seek to address labor conditions perpetrated by government policies as an unfair subsidy that is actionable under U.S. laws. “Thank you for your time today.” ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement in response to the report by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on the Senate Trumpcare bill: “The CBO report should be a death blow to the Republican Senate bill unless its proponents are insensitive to its incredibly harsh impact. Repealing the ACA at any price because of political promises places in jeopardy Americans’ health, and in many cases, their lives. “The report found that 15 million individuals in the next year and 22 million by 2026 would lose health coverage. The bill decimates Medicaid, which covers so many children and seniors, hits older workers with higher premiums, and undermines the certainty of protections for those with preexisting conditions. "How in good conscience can Senate Republicans go forth with this?” ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), today sent a letter to Michigan Governor Rick Snyder, urging him to highlight any concerns he might have about the Senate bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act released last week. Earlier this spring, Gov. Snyder sent a letter highlighting his many concerns with the House-passed American Health Care Act. “The Senate’s approach phases out Medicaid expansion more slowly than the House bill, but it poses the same fundamental threat to the health and economy of our state in the long-term. The Senate draft establishes even worse per capita funding caps than the House bill – with an inadequate inflation adjustment that decreases substantially after 2025. This will ultimately lead to long-term underfunding of Medicaid, placing tremendous financial pressures on states and jeopardizing access to care for millions of Americans,” Rep. Levin wrote. “While the full impact of these draconian cuts will be felt after your governorship, they will frightfully undermine the benefits of the steps taken to create Healthy Michigan under your tenure.” Thirty-two states including the District of Columbia and Michigan have expanded Medicaid. A pdf of the letter is available here, and the full text is below: Dear Governor Snyder: In March, you wrote to me to express your grave concerns with the American Health Care Act, the House’s proposal to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. In your letter, you expressed alarm at the bill’s dramatic cuts to Medicaid that would “adversely impact” thousands of Michiganders, telling me that “these are our state’s most vulnerable citizens, friends and neighbors.” Your letter provided a clear analysis of the devastating effect this bill would have on the people of Michigan. As the Senate rushes to consider companion legislation that is as harmful as – and in some ways even worse – than the bill passed by the House last month, I urge you to stand again with the people of Michigan and highlight any concerns you have about this damaging legislation. As you know, the Affordable Care Act has resulted in dramatic improvements in health coverage for the American people and the people of Michigan. Since enactment of this landmark law, the number of uninsured individuals has declined to record low levels, dropping to 6.4 percent in Michigan. More than 310,000 consumers in our state enrolled in individual coverage through the Marketplace last year, and more than 657,000 receive coverage through the Healthy Michigan Medicaid expansion. In addition to providing lifesaving access to affordable health care, this has had a major economic impact throughout the state. Thanks primarily to the state’s successful expansion of Medicaid, Michigan hospitals have seen a nearly 50 percent reduction in uncompensated care. In addition, researchers at the University of Michigan have determined that Medicaid expansion has created 30,000 jobs and generated $2.3 billion in economic benefit for the state. In total, provisions of the Affordable Care Act are projected to bring $38.2 billion in federal funding to Michigan between 2019 and 2028, which will further strengthen the economy and help support job growth in our state. Unfortunately, both the House and Senate bills to repeal the Affordable Care Act would roll back this progress and jeopardize the health and economic wellbeing of the people of Michigan. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the House bill would result in 23 million fewer Americans having health coverage, including 14 million Medicaid beneficiaries who would be harmed by program cuts of over $830 billion. The economic consequences for our state would be severe. A recent study by the Commonwealth Fund determined that the House bill would lead to a 134 percent increase in uncompensated care in Michigan, resulting in a more than 20 percent reduction in Medicaid revenues for our hospitals. In total, Commonwealth estimates that Michigan will be one of the ten states hardest hit under the House bill, which will cost our state 51,000 jobs and reduce business output by $8 billion. The draft legislation recently released by the Senate does nothing to reduce the harmful impact of the House bill. Among the many draconian provisions in the draft are its massive cuts to Medicaid that will eliminate the expansion and shift costs onto states, patients, and hospitals. The Senate’s approach phases out Medicaid expansion more slowly than the House bill, but it poses the same fundamental threat to the health and economy of our state in the long-term. The Senate draft establishes even worse per capita funding caps than the House bill – with an inadequate inflation adjustment that decreases substantially after 2025. This will ultimately lead to long-term underfunding of Medicaid, placing tremendous financial pressures on states and jeopardizing access to care for millions of Americans. While the full impact of these draconian cuts will be felt after your governorship, they will frightfully undermine the benefits of the steps taken to create Healthy Michigan under your tenure. Leading groups representing patients, providers, hospitals, and people of faith have taken a firm stand against this legislation. In just a matter of days we have already heard condemnation of the Senate’s bill from groups such as AARP, American Hospital Association, Federation of American Hospitals, Association of American Medical Colleges, American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, American Lung Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, American Psychiatric Association, American Academy of Family Physicians, America’s Essential Hospitals, and Catholic Health Association. In the coming days we can expect outrage to grow as the public becomes more aware of the harm this legislation will cause. The Senate plans to move quickly, bypassing the committee process and leaving the public little opportunity for meaningful debate and analysis. As you continue to hear from your constituents about the disastrous consequences of this proposal, I urge you to stand with the people of Michigan and publicly highlight the impact this legislation would have on our state. Sincerely, Sander M. Levin Member of Congress ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), today issued the following statement in response to the judge’s decision to issue a fourteen-day stay of any deportation of the Chaldean-Americans immigrants recently arrested in Detroit: “The decision provides a necessary pause and review before sending over 100 people to immense danger or loss of life, as acknowledged by the judge.” ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement on the text of the discussion draft of the Senate Trumpcare bill: “Senate Republicans have written a bill behind closed doors to hide the painful effect it will have on millions of Americans. No hearings, no committee markups, almost no time to review the bill. “This stands in stark contrast to how Democrats enacted the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2009 and 2010. The Senate Finance Committee spent eight days marking up the legislation, considered 135 amendments, and posted the bill nearly a week before it was considered. Before consideration of the ACA in the House Ways and Means Committee, Democrats posted a draft bill four weeks in advance of acting on the bill and held a public hearing on the legislation, after holding a half dozen hearings on specific health reform issues in that same year – including one with the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Other House and Senate Committees also spent considerable time working on the legislation. “Republicans in both the House and the Senate have completely failed to live up to these standards of transparency. They know the more the public learns about their bill to repeal health coverage for millions of Americans, the more the American people will reject it.” ###
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today announced the St. Clair Shores Fire Department has been awarded an Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) for $346,364 from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The funding will be used to replace old radio equipment that will be no longer serviceable in the next few years. “When our firefighters can properly communicate with one another, they can better save lives. I welcome this federal support, which will help keep residents and first responders of St. Clair Shores safer,” said Rep. Levin. “I’m pleased we’ve been awarded this regional grant that will provide 100 portable radios, 35 vehicle mounted radios, and new working headsets for all fire engines in St. Clair Shores, Eastpointe, and Roseville,” said Battalion Chief Chris Krotche. The AFG Program is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. These grants are awarded directly to fire and public safety departments to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public and first-responder personnel. Since 2001, AFG has provided about $6.7 billion to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. ###
06.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today sent a letter reiterating previous requests to the Immigration Control and Enforcement (ICE) Detroit Field Office for information regarding the 114 Iraqi nationals ICE is preparing to deport, many of whom are Chaldean. Levin first requested the information from ICE in a phone conversation on June 12, 2017, and also in follow up email communications. For each individual, Levin asked ICE to provide details including current age, marital sates, number and age of children, legal status of spouse and children, crime that forms the basis of deportation, and when the individual was sentenced. ICE has stated publicly that the individuals slated for deportation represent a “very real public safety threat.” “What I find deeply troubling is that at the same time your office has failed to respond to a Congressional inquiry it has engaged in media outreach to defend its action. In doing so, your office is providing specific information on the individuals in deportation and sweeping conclusions about those deported to the news media,” Levin wrote. “Therefore, with this letter, I am reiterating my request that you provide fully and promptly the information that you possess.” Earlier this week, Levin and other Michigan Members of Congress wrote Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly requesting that he provide an actual copy of the repatriation agreement with Iraq, and information on safety measures for the individuals, who face possible persecution and danger if deported to Iraq. Levin will attend a rally later today to protest the deportation of the Iraqi American immigrants, to be held at the Patrick W. McNamara Federal Building in Detroit at 3 p.m. A PDF of the letter is available here, and the full text is below: Dear Director Adducci: As you are aware there is tremendous concern in the Metro-Detroit community over the actions taken by your office last weekend to suddenly detain 114 Iraqi nationals, most of whom have lived in the U.S for many years if not decades, in preparation to deport them to a potentially life-threatening situation in Iraq. As a Federal representative of many of the families impacted, I called the morning of Monday, June 12 and spoke to Mark Hamilton of your office. I asked for information regarding the weekend raids. I followed that phone conversation with an email requesting the following information on the individuals in detention. Name Case number Date of Order of Deportation Age Gender Age when arrived in US Occupation Whether married Number and age of children Legal status of spouse and children (i.e. US citizen, green card holder) Crime that forms the basis for deportation When sentenced and actual sentence received If probation, any violations of probation Any additional sentence for the violation Status of check-ins with ICE Extent of family in Iraq When last visited Iraq Mr. Hamilton responded to that email with the following response: “The Detroit office will respond to your specific question as soon as we are able to gather the information available to us.” I still have not received a response from your office, or any of the requested information, which I believe is critical to my work representing these individuals, their families and the communities in which they live. What I find deeply troubling is that at the same time your office has failed to respond to a Congressional inquiry it has engaged in media outreach to defend its action. In doing so, your office is providing specific information on the individuals under deportation and sweeping conclusions about them to the news media. Therefore, with this letter, I am reiterating my request that you provide fully and promptly the information that you possess. Understanding that you may not have each item for each individual, or may not provide identifying information, please just indicate that and send what information you have available. I understand that you may be carrying out orders from Washington, but this is not a reason for breaking long-standing protocols to work with Congressional offices on matters impacting their representative work. Sincerely, Sander Levin Member of Congress ###
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today, along with Reps. John Conyers (MI-13), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and John Moolenaar (MI-04), wrote to Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly regarding the large number of Chaldean Americans who have been placed in detention and are awaiting removal. The letter requested a copy of the U.S. government’s repatriation agreement with Iraq, and for information about safety measures planned for the individuals. Most members of the Michigan Chaldean community are Catholic Christians originally from Iraq. The metro-Detroit area has one of the largest Chaldean American communities in the United States. As a religious minority, Chaldeans face persecution and possibly torture if returned to Iraq. A PDF of the letter is available here, and the full text is below: Dear Secretary Kelly: On behalf of our constituents, we are writing most urgently and with grave concern about a large number of Iraqi-American immigrants who are being placed in detention and are awaiting removal. Individuals, most of whom are Chaldean but include Muslims as well, will be placed in great danger if deported to Iraq. Because of the horrors perpetrated against the Catholic Chaldean population in Iraq, these individuals could be stranded in a country in which they are subject to extreme jeopardy. The vast majority of these individuals came to the U.S. legally long ago but are subject to deportation now because they violated their visa restrictions by committing crimes of various degrees, or for other reasons. Those that committed crimes have, to the best of our knowledge, served any sentence and completed any parole. These individuals have put down roots. Many have married, helped raise families, worked hard, opened small businesses, and paid their taxes. Most have no relatives in Iraq because they, or the families that brought them to America as children, left the country decades ago. The traditional Chaldean areas in Iraq have been uprooted, destroying much of what would have been left of “home” for the Chaldeans. The State Department Report on Human Rights Practices in Iraq describes the dangerous plight of Chaldeans, and Iraqis of other ethnic and religious groups, who face the real risk of kidnapping and torture by ISIS and other terrorist groups. High-level officials from both parties agree that genocide is being committed against Christians in Iraq and Syria. Secretary Kerry said so in March 2016, reaffirmed by Vice President Pence just last month. Returning these individuals to the humanitarian catastrophe in Iraq violates the due process that these individuals must be provided. They are in the United States and, as a result, are entitled to due process, despite not being U.S. citizens. See Zadvydas v. Davis, 533 U.S. 678 (2001). Until recently, Iraq refused to accept these individuals who have few, if any, ties to Iraq, no Iraqi identification, or Iraqi travel documents. In addition, most do not speak the language. The fact that Iraq has now agreed to accept them does not address that deporting these individuals can send them into grave danger and perhaps death. We accordingly request that you immediately send us a copy of the U.S. Government’s agreement with Iraq so we in Congress can review its terms, and request that you inform us as to what specific measures are provided to ensure these individuals’ safety and all other relevant information. Until we in Congress can review all aspects of the agreement reached with Iraq, and the referenced safety measures, we urge you to hold off removal of these individuals to Iraq. We look forward to a prompt answer to all of the requested information. Thank you in advance for your urgent attention to this matter. ###
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement after reports that Anthem will pull out of the ACA exchange in Ohio, citing uncertainty surrounding key issues, including federal cost-sharing reduction payments: “This is the latest example of President Trump and Republicans in Congress destabilizing health care coverage for the American people. Their constant attacks and intentional efforts to create uncertainty are pushing some plans to withdraw from the marketplace and others to raise premiums. Republicans’ efforts to undermine the ACA at all costs is causing Americans to suffer without insurance.” ###
05.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today issued the following statement on the meeting between President Trump and the Prime Minister of Vietnam at the White House. “It is deeply disturbing that the visit of the Prime Minister of Vietnam to the White House today failed to address that nation’s continual violation of basic human rights, persecution of political opponents and suppression of labor rights. To be silent on such issues, not only condemns the people of Vietnam to continued oppression, but it also hurts workers here in the U.S. when they have to compete with workers who are denied these basic rights and receive very low wages. In Vietnam, workers do not have the right to form or join an independent union of their choosing, which at least partially explains why the wages of workers in Vietnam are so low, with a minimum wage that is only one-tenth of the U.S. minimum wage. "Vietnam had indicated agreement to adopt basic labor rights, including the formation of independent unions, during discussions about the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) Agreement, but recent actions reinforced the serious doubts about whether Vietnam’s authoritarian regime would actually fulfill commitments on human and labor rights. For example, earlier this month, Vietnamese police arrested Hoang Duc Binh, a Viet Labor Movement leader, for ‘abusing Democratic freedoms’ when trying to help the victims of an environmental disaster caused by a steel plant last year. We must not turn a blind eye toward such violations of human and labor rights.” ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today released the following statement in response to the updated report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on the Republican legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the American Health Care Act: “The updated CBO score continues to show huge numbers of Americans losing their health insurance under the Republican bill – 23 million by 2026. It also highlights that if you have a pre-existing condition, or if you are older, or if you have limited means, your premiums will be higher, and in some cases you may not be able to purchase insurance at all. “New report, same basic result – declining coverage and rising costs. That’s a terrible combination that deprives millions of Americans the ability to care for their health and therefore, their lives.” The full CBO report can be found here, below are key excerpts: “CBO and JCT expect that, as a consequence, the waivers in those states would have another effect: Community-rated premiums would rise over time, and people who are less healthy (including those with preexisting or newly acquired medical conditions) would ultimately be unable to purchase comprehensive nongroup health insurance at premiums comparable to those under current law, if they could purchase it at all…” pg.5 “…some people enrolled in nongroup insurance would experience substantial increases in what they would spend on health care. People living in states modifying the EHBs who used services or benefits no longer included in the EHBs would experience substantial increases in out-of-pocket spending on health care or would choose to forgo the services.” pg. 7 “For older people with lower income, net premiums would be much larger than under current law, on average…” pg. 20 ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s budget proposal: “President Trump’s budget would cause irreparable harm for Michiganders. The budget proposes deep cuts to so many programs that are absolutely critical to families and communities, from Medicaid to SNAP to the Community Development Block Grant. This budget undermines our shared values, and I will fight vigorously against it.” Below is an overview of cuts that would harm families in Oakland and Macomb counties, a PDF version can be found here: SNAP – The Trump Budget proposes cutting this food assistance program by $191 billion over 10 years. In Macomb County, 101,000 individuals receive SNAP, and in Oakland County, 91,000 receive food assistance from the program. Social Security Disability – The Trump Budget would cut benefits under the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) and Supplement Security Income (SSI) programs by a total of $72 billion over 10 years. In the 9th Congressional District (which includes portions of Oakland and Macomb Counties), 24,000 disabled individuals receive SSDI benefits and nearly 20,000 aged and disabled individuals receive SSI benefits. These benefits are so critical that people can wait as long as a year and half to get them in the Detroit area. Medicaid – The Trump Budget would cut the Medicaid program by $610 billion over 10 years. Medicaid provides health coverage to 2.3 million people in Michigan, including 141,000 in Macomb County and 139,000 in Oakland County. TANF – The Trump Budget would cut the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program by over $15 billion over 10 years, cutting Michigan’s allotment from the program by over $760 million over the next decade. SSBG – The Trump Budget would eliminate the Social Services Block Grant (SSBG), which provides $49 million for Michigan to spend on child protective services, elderly assistance and a variety of other social services. For example, Common Ground receives SSBG funds for their Runaway and Homeless Youth program in Royal Oak. GLRI – The Trump Budget would eliminate the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which funds 764 projects in Michigan to clean up areas of concern, fight invasive species, and restore and protects habitats. There are multiple GLRI projects in Oakland and Macomb counties, including the St. Clair Shores program to install green infrastructure, awarded in 2014. LIHEAP – The Trump Budget would eliminate the Low-Income Heating and Energy Assistance Program, which provided over $140 million for Michigan in FY 2017 for helping families with heating bills and weatherization, including $561,000 administered by Macomb Community Action. CDBG – The Trump Budget proposes eliminating the Community Development Block Grant. In 2016, Oakland County received $3.6 million in CDBG funding, and used some of these funds to refurbish the homes of low-income residents to bring them up to code and eliminate lead. In Macomb County, a number of communities receive CDBG funds including the City of Roseville and Clinton Township, who use these funds to help low and middle-income residents in their communities with needs including home rehabilitation, winter heating assistance, weatherization, and senior home services. Roseville and Clinton Township also provide money from the CDBG funds they receive to service organizations including the Turning Point shelter for women who are victims of domestic violence; Care House, which provides services for children who are victims of physical and sexual violence; and the Macomb County Rotating Emergency Shelter Team (MCREST), which provides shelter for homeless and displaced people. CSBG – The Trump Budget would eliminate the Community Services Block Grant. OLHSA, a Community Action Agency in Oakland and Macomb Community Action both use CSBG funds to leverage other sources of funding to help needy people. For example, OLHSA used every $1 of CSBG funds to leverage $4.20 in other state, local, and private sources. Job Training – The Trump budget would cut WIOA Adult, Youth, Dislocated Workers and Employment Services by more than a third. In 2016, these programs served more than 900 individuals in Macomb and St. Clair counties. ###
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statements after the Trump Administration requested additional time to make a decision on whether to continue making cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments as permitted under the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “While today’s decision by the Administration will continue the legal payments of subsidies that help millions of Americans with health care costs, this appears to be part of an intentional strategy by the Administration to cause even greater uncertainty in the health insurance markets so that it can push its false political talking point that Obamacare is collapsing,” said Ranking Member Neal. “Health insurance companies have even said that the Trump Administration is directly responsible for the uncertainty, causing them to pull out of exchanges. Today’s decision is nothing more than irresponsible, continued sabotage of our nation’s health care system by this Administration, hurting millions of Americans in the process.” “The basic purpose of the Republican lawsuit was to create uncertainty and undermine the ACA,” said Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Levin. “The decision today represents the knowledge of the Republicans that the public is increasingly holding them responsible for the uncertainty in the insurance marketplace. The Republicans should follow the step taken today to continue the necessary cost sharing payments for 90 days by withdrawing their lawsuit and encouraging the integrity of the marketplace rather than the opposite.” ###
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health today released the following statement questioning House Republicans rushing a vote on their legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The bill was voted on so quickly, Members did not have adequate time to review changes to the bill, and the legislation did not have a new estimate from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The House passed the legislation on May 4, but has reportedly not sent the bill to the Senate for action because Republican leadership worries that CBO may find that the bill will not comply with reconciliation rules: “Republicans slapped together some changes to make a very bad bill even worse and then forced a vote, without adequate time to review and without hearing from CBO. But over two weeks later, they still have not sent the bill to the Senate because they are waiting on CBO estimates on cost and coverage. “This mess of a process has created a complete mess of a bill. Rather than legislate in a deliberate manner, House Republicans rushed the bill through because they know the public opposes what they are doing. But they can’t hide from their vote to take health insurance away from millions of Americans, while raising costs for millions more.” ###
05.18.2017	(Remarks as prepared) Thank you, Dr. Miller for joining us today and for the important role MedPAC plays in informing Medicare policy. Unfortunately, today’s proceedings are a painful reminder that this Subcommittee failed to have a single hearing or take any action at all on the most consequential health legislation that Congress will consider this session, and perhaps for many years. The Republican health care bill would rip coverage away from 24 million Americans while handing out nearly $1 trillion in tax cuts, primarily for the wealthy and corporations. It guts Medicaid by cutting more than $800 billion from the program and shifting costs to patients. It allows states to eliminate or weaken crucial market reforms, including essential health benefits, community rating requirements, and protections for older workers. Every Republican Member of the Subcommittee voted for this misguided legislation that was opposed by doctors, hospitals, patient advocates, AARP and nearly every other major stakeholder in our health care system. This hearing is about Medicare. With all that is deeply harmful in the Republicans’ American Health Care Act, there has been less attention paid to the damage it does to Medicare. The bill eliminates the 0.9 percent pay roll tax on high-earners, depriving the Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund of $75 billion to benefit people making more than $200,000. It grants a windfall to wealthy investors by eliminating the tax on unearned income, including capital gains and dividends. And it provides a $28.5 billion tax break to pharmaceutical companies, which will create a shortfall in the Part B Trust Fund. Beneficiaries will be directly responsible for a portion of this shortfall – causing an $8.7 billion premium increase. These provisions would benefit the rich and shorten the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund. What’s more, they fundamentally break a promise we heard over and over again in 2016 – that the President would not cut Medicare or Medicaid. While Republicans have pushed this proposal, with all of its harmful provisions, they have neglected to address the important issues that Medicare faces. Perhaps the most important of which is the prescription drug spending crisis. I hope we can spend some time discussing this issue in greater detail today. Skyrocketing drug costs have devastating consequences for the middle class and for federal health programs. The Medicare Trustees have told us that program spending in Part D increased by 15 percent in 2015 alone. In Part B, GAO has found that Medicare often pays more for physician-administered drugs than other federal payers, including Medicaid and the VA. MedPAC has made a number of recommendations to address Medicare prescription drug spending. Notably, the Commission has pointed out perverse incentives that impact industry behavior and contribute to higher costs. I hope this hearing will provide us with an opportunity to discuss these and other important issues with the careful attention they deserve. Thank you again for joining us, Dr. Miller. I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s letter of notification to Congress to initiate negotiations with Canada and Mexico on the “modernization” of NAFTA: “Instead of strengthening the NAFTA re-negotiation letter, the Administration has rendered it meaningless. The Administration should remember that the Constitution gives the authority over trade to the Congress, and Members must vote to approve the agreement, so starting with language consult closely and follow the objectives in TPA doesn’t begin to make Congress and the public a full partner in the Administration’s first foray into trade negotiations. “Unfortunately, in meetings to date, the Administration has evaded questions about a core problem with NAFTA: a wholly deficient labor regime in Mexico that has kept wages low and workers without the rights to change the system. Instead of being clear that Mexico will be required to change their laws and bring their practices into compliance with internationally recognized labor standards, they have stated that these are �?sensitive’ issues. “There will be no change in NAFTA, and there will be no stemming the loss of the U.S. jobs, unless this issue of labor costs is fully addressed. It must be front and center in any re-negotiation. “It is vital that the Ways and Means Committee take their oversight responsibility serious and hold a series of hearings during this 90 day period before the negotiations begin so that Members have complete clarity on the negotiations and are actively involved in them.” ###
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI) and Brian K. Fitzpatrick (R-OH), and 70 House Members today released a letter sent yesterday to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney urging him to maintain funding for the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) in the Trump Administration’s FY2018 Budget. According to press reports, President Donald Trump’s FY18 budget will propose drastic cuts to ONDCP, including completely eliminating the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) and Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Programs. The Members wrote: “For almost two decades, ONDCP has had a critical role in ensuring the nation’s drug policy is effective, accountable, and evidence-based. The Office and the programs it supports are uniquely positioned to address the causes and effects of the current opioid crisis with proven strategies and broad reach. For these important programs to remain effective, we believe they must continue to be funded fully and coordinated effectively. We are gravely concerned that any interruption would exacerbate the crises in our communities and we remain committed in working together to reverse the damaging effects that opioids and other drugs have had on American families.” With the deadly opioid epidemic tearing apart families and communities nationwide, the need for a coordinated, effective and accountable approach to substance abuse and drug trafficking is greater than ever. The National Institute of Drug Abuse reports that the number of overdose deaths from prescription opioids increased by a factor of 2.8 between 2002 and 2015. The number of heroin deaths increased by a factor of 6.2 in the same period. Since its creation in 1988, ONDCP has enjoyed bipartisan support for its mission of protecting public safety and promoting public health. The office’s National Drug Control Strategy has provided an important blueprint to guide and coordinate the efforts of federal, state, and local partners to ensure an evidence-based and accountable strategy to address the devastating impact of drugs on our communities. Congress created the HIDTA program in 1988 to promote coordination between federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug trafficking regions of the United States. Law enforcement organizations working within HIDTAs assess drug trafficking issues and design specific initiatives to decrease the production, transportation, distribution, and chronic use of drugs and money laundering. In recent years, HIDTA seizures have yielded billions of dollars that transnational criminal organizations would have used to reinvest in the illegal drug trade. Instead, this cost-effective program has reinvested proceeds in efforts to further address the causes and effects of substance abuse. The DFC program reduces drug use through building a multi-sector coalition where schools, parents, health care, and youth-serving organizations work together to plan and implement a comprehensive set of evidence-based programs tailored to a community’s unique needs. More than 600 communities nationwide currently have Drug-Free Community coalitions. The program has consistently demonstrated reductions in past 30-day use of alcohol, tobacco, and prescription drugs. Click here and see below to read the letter. May 16, 2017 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director, Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street Northwest Washington, District of Columbia 20503 Dear Director Mulvaney: We are writing to express our concern about reported severe reductions to the Office of the National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) in the fiscal 2018 budget that would put in jeopardy programs that provide needed assistance to state and local law enforcement and community coalitions to fight the growing opioid epidemic. As you know, ONDCP has played a critical role in coordinating the nation’s drug control efforts. Since 1988 this office has enjoyed bipartisan support for its mission of protecting public safety and promoting public health. The office’s National Drug Control Strategy has provided an important blueprint to guide and coordinate the efforts of federal, state, and local partners to ensure an evidence-based and accountable strategy to address the devastating impact of drugs on our communities. The need for a coordinated, effective, and accountable approach to substance abuse and drug trafficking is greater than ever. The National Institute of Drug Abuse reports that the number of overdose deaths from prescription opioids increased by a factor of 2.8 between 2002 and 2015. The number of heroin deaths increased by a factor of 6.2 in the same period. This epidemic is being felt in communities throughout the United States and the effects have been devastating. The High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program, overseen by ONDCP, has been a critical component of the National Drug Control Strategy. This program aids in the coordination of federal, state, and local drug task forces to disrupt or dismantle drug trafficking organizations. It also engages and provides support to state and federal prosecutors to convict individuals associated with drug trafficking organizations. In recent years, HIDTA seizures have yielded billions of dollars that transnational criminal organizations would have used to reinvest in the illegal drug trade. Instead, this cost-effective program has reinvested proceeds in efforts to further address the causes and effects of substance abuse. The office’s Drug Free Communities (DFC) Program has been similarly effective. Its approach to addressing local problems with community-driven solutions has consistently shown reductions in past 30-day use of alcohol, tobacco, and prescription drugs. The program is designed with strict accountability provisions to ensure the highest levels of local support in solving the substance abuse crisis each community faces. By law, there is a cap on the amount of money that can be spent on administrative and overhead expenses, which ensures that the maximum amount of funding goes to DFC coalitions that have the power to reduce youth substance use in their own communities. Coalitions are required to be in existence and fully functioning for a minimum of six months before they are eligible to apply, and they must have baseline data to show that they have full knowledge of local drug issues, as well as matching federal funding with dollar-for-dollar local funds. For almost two decades, ONDCP has had a critical role in ensuring the nation’s drug policy is effective, accountable, and evidence-based. The Office and the programs it supports are uniquely positioned to address the causes and effects of the current opioid crisis with proven strategies and broad reach. For these important programs to remain effective, we believe they must continue to be funded fully and coordinated effectively. We are gravely concerned that any interruption would exacerbate the crises in our communities and we remain committed in working together to reverse the damaging effects that opioids and other drugs have had on American families. We respectfully request clarification on the Administration’s intended actions to ensure the continuity of HIDTA and DFC and look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
05.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) and Representative Sander Levin (D-MI), the original authors of the Drug-Free Communities Act signed into law in 1997, today sent a letter to Office of Management & Budget (OMB) Director Mick Mulvaney expressing their concern over OMB’s proposal to cut all funding to the Drug-Free Communities (DFC) program. Portman and Levin designed this program to be optimally effective and accountable by capping the amount spent on administrative and overhead expenses, requiring all coalitions that receive grants to have experience in drug abuse prevention, as well as matching federal funding with dollar-for-dollar local funds. No other drug prevention program has achieved the same reductions in youth drug use that have been achieved consistently by the DFC program. This program is working well at a time when America desperately needs more drug abuse prevention and education. “The Drug-Free Communities program is a proven, evidence-based, and accountable program that reduces substance abuse among youths,” Senator Portman and Representative Levin wrote in the letter. “The opioid epidemic is a serious problem that affects millions of young people and their families. We urge you to put their interest first, and fully fund the program for FY 2018.” The text of the letter follows and a link can be found here: Dear Director Mulvaney: As the original authors who created the Drug-Free Communities program in 1997, we are deeply troubled by the Administration's proposal to cut all funding for the program in FY 2018. Amidst the most severe opioid epidemic in decades, it is reckless and senseless to eliminate an effective, evidence-based, community-oriented drug prevention program. In March, over 100 bipartisan Members of Congress in the House, representing over 70 million Americans urged appropriators to fully fund the Drug-Free Communities program for FY 2018. The Senate is currently circulating a similar letter that enjoys wide bipartisan support year-after-year. Based on evidence and research, we know that DFC coalitions work effectively to reduce substance abuse in youths in over 600 communities across the nation, and has provided support to 4.4 million middle school and 6.3 million high school students since inception. We support funding for the Office of National Drug Control Policy as a whole, but want to highlight specifically the positive success we’ve seen from the Drug-Free Communities Act. The Drug-Free Community coalitions are deeply rooted in local communities. Each coalition engages twelve sectors who are key local stakeholders, including local law enforcement, faith-based organizations, schools, healthcare professionals, parents, students, and volunteer groups who are committed to their communities. This emphasis allows DFC coalitions to respond at the local level to different emerging drug trends such as heroin, meth, K2, spice, and other synthetic drugs. Independent research confirms that in communities with DFC coalitions, past 30-day use of alcohol, tobacco, and prescription drugs have declined by 32 percent, 38 percent, and 21 percent, respectively. That is why so many bipartisan members of Congress support Drug-Free Communities. The Drug-Free Communities program is designed to be accountable. By law, there is a cap on the amount of money that can be spent on administrative and overhead expenses, which ensures that the maximum amount of funding goes to DFC coalitions who have the power to reduce youth substance use in their own communities. Coalitions are required to be in existence and fully functioning for a minimum of six months before they are eligible to apply. They must also have baseline data to show that they have full knowledge of local drug issues, as well as matching federal funding with dollar-for-dollar local funds. Finally, the coalitions are required to go through a year-long training academy to make sure they have the skills necessary to not only effectively reduce their youth drug use rates, but also to plan, implement, and evaluate their efforts so they can achieve results. We specifically included these strict accountability provisions in the law to ensure the highest levels of local support in solving substance abuse crisis each community faces. The Drug-Free Communities program is a proven, evidence-based, and accountable program that reduces substance abuse among youths. The opioid epidemic is a serious problem that affects millions of young people and their families. We urge you to put their interest first, and fully fund the program for FY 2018. ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement in response to the House vote to pass legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the American Health Care Act [H.R. 1628]: “Today, House Republicans turned their backs on the health needs of millions and millions of Americans. Their rigid ideology has blinded them to what matters most for the families of America – insurance for good health. This will not be the decisive step. Millions of Americans have already risen up, told us their stories – and more will now in still larger numbers. “Over $1 trillion would be taken from Medicare, Medicaid and premium assistance for Americans purchasing health insurance to provide a trillion dollars in tax breaks primarily for insurance companies and other corporations and for some of the very richest Americans. “The Republican bill also guts key protections for Americans with serious health conditions, including protections for those with preexisting conditions, mothers needing maternity care, and older workers. 129 million Americans may have some form of pre-existing condition, including more than 4 million in Michigan. The Affordable Care Act says insurance companies can’t exclude them, can’t limit their benefits, and can’t charge them more. The GOP bill would effectively repeal those provisions. Republicans say not to worry – they will be covered by risk pools. But experts have repeatedly warned that risk pools won’t adequately protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. “This bill is not just a disagreement between Republicans and Democrats on health care – nearly every major organization involved in providing health care opposes the GOP legislation from the American Medical Association to the American Hospital Association to the AARP. All of them warn of the negative impacts that Americans will feel from this misguided bill. “Today was a bad day for Americans who need health care, but the fight shall continue.” ###
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Representative Sander Levin (D-MI) today reintroduced tax reform legislation to close the carried interest loophole. Last week, President Trump released a one-page tax reform outline full of tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans that did not include any reference to closing the carried interest loophole, and media reports have suggested that his plan may in fact lead to an even lower tax rate for fund managers. As a candidate, Trump said “As part of this reform, we will eliminate the carried interest deduction and other special interest loopholes that have been so good for Wall Street investors, and for people like me, but unfair to American workers.” The Carried Interest Fairness Act, which would end the tax loophole, has received broad bipartisan support from government officials, economists, investors and hedge fund managers. “If President Trump is in fact serious about closing the carried interest tax loophole for hedge fund managers on Wall Street, we are introducing legislation to do just that and we welcome his support so he can keep the promise he has made,” said Senator Baldwin. “With his one-page tax proposal that gives massive tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires, I am afraid President Trump is breaking his promise and is engaging in a classic Washington game of bait-and-switch. He needs to stand by his word to close the carried interest tax loophole and support our legislation.” “President Trump has outlined a tax plan full of giveaways to the wealthiest Americans, but he was silent on fulfilling his campaign promise to close the carried interest loophole. In fact, his plan may be worse than silent – it could lead to an even lower tax rate for fund managers,” said Representative Levin. “The President needs to make clear that he will keep his promise on carried interest regardless of the outcome of tax reform.” The carried interest tax loophole benefits certain investment fund managers – including private equity fund managers – by allowing them to take advantage of the preferential 20-percent tax long-term capital gains rate on income received as compensation, rather than the ordinary income tax rates of up to 39.6-percent that all other Americans pay. The Carried Interest Fairness Act would end this loophole by ensuring that income earned by managing other people's money is taxed at the same ordinary income tax rates as that of the vast majority of Americans. The non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) estimated that this legislation, by closing the carried interest loophole, would raise $15.6 billion in revenue. This additional revenue could help reduce the deficit and be invested in strengthening the middle class. More information on the Carried Interest Fairness Act is available here. ###
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement in response the tax cuts proposed by the Trump Administration: “Today’s announcement by the Trump Administration is not a tax reform plan. It is warmed over supply-side economics, which the first President Bush called 'voodoo economics.' This is deja voodoo economics – cutting taxes mostly for the very wealthy and large corporations with a blind and disproven faith that those tax cuts will pay for themselves. “Treasury Secretary Mnuchin’s assertion that the plan will pay for itself with growth is both foolish and reckless. It defies history as well as the advice of the Joint Committee on Taxation and other experts. Following this path would massively increase our deficits – hurting our long-term economic growth, while also forcing cuts to Medicare and other critical programs. “Providing huge tax cuts to the wealthy, led by President Trump, while seeming to provide relative crumbs to everyone else is the wrong way for America. We need to build economic growth from the middle out, not from the top down.” ###
04.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement in response to the landmine explosion in eastern Ukraine Sunday that killed an American observer: “My thoughts are with the family of the American observer of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), who was killed by a landmine explosion in Pryshyb, an area controlled by Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine on Sunday. This incident underscores the need to immediately implement the Minsk Agreement, including ensuring the safety of international observers in areas controlled by Russia-backed separatists. I call on Russian authorities to fully cooperate with the OSCE in conducting a thorough investigation, and in holding the perpetrators accountable. “The people of Ukraine have shown time and again their will for a free and democratic nation. I urge the Trump Administration to express unequivocal support for the people of Ukraine, and stand shoulder to shoulder with them in countering Russian aggression in the region.” ###
04.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on Yom HaShoah Holocaust Remembrance Day: “Yom HaShoah Holocaust Remembrance Day is a time to solemnly honor the memory of the six million Jews and millions of other victims of the Holocaust. Now more than ever, with the rise of anti-Semitic events in the United States and around the world, we must use this Remembrance Day to honor the words “Never Again” by recommitting ourselves to open and democratic societies, opposed to hatred and prejudice of all types.” ###
04.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement honoring the 102nd anniversary of the Armenian Genocide: “I join with the Armenian community in Michigan and around the world in solemn commemoration of the 102nd anniversary of the beginning of the Armenian Genocide. The Ottoman Empire systemically brutalized and killed over one million Armenian men, women, and children of all ages, with countless more displaced from their homeland. Yet the United States still refuses to acknowledge these atrocities for what they truly were: the first genocide of the 20th century. “Today, I join many others to call on President Trump to formally recognize the Armenian Genocide.” ###
04.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order directing a review of Department of Treasury regulations, including regulations on corporate inversions: “Corporate inversions hurt our tax base and damage our economy. Signaling that restrictions on such inversions might be eliminated or watered down is not putting America first – it’s telling companies it is acceptable for them to renounce their citizenship by moving their addresses overseas to avoid paying U.S. taxes, while still reaping the benefits of effectively being based in the U.S. “Current Treasury regulations on deterring corporate inversions are designed to make it harder for large multinational companies to avoid paying U.S. taxes and to reduce the incentives for U.S. companies to shift income and operations abroad. These regulations, which took into account extensive comments from the public, as well as meetings with Republicans and Democrats in Congress, attempt to prevent corporations from leveraging a U.S. company with debt and “stripping” the U.S. tax base through deductible interest payments. “At their core, the inversion regulations are about bringing fairness to our tax system. We must not backtrack on this basic principle. “ Rep. Levin authored the “Stop Corporate Inversions Act,” introduced in the 113th and 114th sessions of Congress, designed to discourage corporate inversions. ###
04.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order investigating whether foreign steel imports compromise national security: “In 2000, China's steel capacity was roughly the same as the U.S. Now it is 10 times as high, and more than the capacity of the United States, the European Union, Japan and Russia combined. The announcement today does not begin to meet that challenge or the President’s own rhetoric. “The steel overcapacity issue deserves a fully comprehensive approach that includes several strategies including: U.S. action, action by other trading partners who will become the target of China's steel exports if our market is closed off, and direct pressure on China. We must also include aluminum in any actions taken.” ###
04.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) yesterday visited several organizations throughout the 9th Congressional District to hear the potential effects of President Trump’s proposed budget. Rep. Levin spoke with key stakeholders and experts about the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), funding for job training programs, and the need for continued federal support to help victims of domestic violence. “Hearing firsthand the negative effects that we would see in Macomb County and other communities from President Trump’s proposed budget has only strengthened my opposition,” said Rep. Levin. “We should be investing in our citizens, not cutting programs that help them better their lives and communities.” Budget Tour stops: Great Lakes Restoration Initiative: Rep. Levin met with officials from Sterling Heights and the Clinton River Watershed to discuss the importance of the GLRI in cleaning up and restoring the Great Lakes. GLRI has supported over 760 projects in Michigan, including a $4.5 million award to the Clinton River Corridor Project, to improve the habitat diversity. The President’s budget proposal eliminated the GLRI. Michigan Works!: Rep. Levin met with representatives from Michigan Works! and individuals who have benefitted from the job training activities. Michigan Works! supports workers of all ages in need of job training and additional skills, and receives federal funding through the Department of Labor. The President proposed a 21 percent cut to the Department of Labor, which Michigan Works! Macomb-St. Clair county anticipates would cut its budget roughly in half. Turning Point/Legal Services Corporation: Domestic violence organizations in Michigan receive federal funding through the Department of Justice and Department of Health and Human Services, which would see a 4 percent and 17 percent decrease, respectively. Turning Point anticipates the proposed cuts would lead to an overall 25 percent cut to their budget. The President has proposed eliminating the Legal Services Corporation, which provides legal services to low-income Americans. ###
04.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s comments that his Administration would not name China a currency manipulator: “Trump’s brand of economic nationalism has led him to make wild promises that he can’t keep. Instead of excusing away China’s currency policies with declarations that he alone has strengthened the dollar, he should be using the April Treasury report to lay out a coherent policy on currency manipulation. The report should make it clear that China’s previous manipulation of its currency cost millions of U.S. jobs. At the same time, the Trump Administration should support legislation to change U.S. trade remedy laws, like some of us in Congress have pushed for many years, so U.S. jobs are protected, and make it clear that all future trade agreements must include enforceable provisions on currency manipulation. “Our nation lives in a globalized economy. The challenge is to shape that global economy so that it is based on sound economic practices and not manipulation of currencies or other unfair trade practices that tilt the playing field against U.S. businesses and cost U.S. jobs. “It appears the President is continuing his practice of identifying problems with fiery rhetoric and doing nothing to craft effective policy solutions. Currency policy is a major missed opportunity by the President since many in Congress have been calling for these solutions for many years. “Finally, trade policy is not done at the State Department any longer for a reason. We need effective international foreign affairs policies and effective international economic policies and we should not be playing them off one another.�? ###
04.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukraine Caucus Co-Chairs, Reps. Andy Harris (R-MD), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and Sander Levin (D-MI), today issued the following statement in response to reported comments by Secretary of State Tillerson on Ukraine: “We are deeply concerned with the reported question asked by Secretary of State Tillerson �?Why should U.S. taxpayers be interested in Ukraine?’ It is abundantly clear that the U.S. has a major security interest in a free and democratic Ukraine, one not subject to Russian aggression. The statement by a State Department spokesman that the Secretary’s statement was a �?rhetorical device’ only adds to the uncertainties about what the basic policies are of the current administration. The Secretary’s statement also seems contradictory to his earlier statements in support of sanctions against Russia. It is imperative that the United States stands shoulder to shoulder with the people of Ukraine, who have demonstrated time and again their shared values for sovereignty, human rights, and the rule of law.” ###
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the follow statement in response to the U.S. airstrikes in Syria: “This response, while appropriate given the horrendous use of chemical weapons by Assad, must be a part of a broader strategy that should be developed in consultation with Congress. A military solution alone cannot solve this problem in Syria, and the full strategy must include humanitarian relief for those suffering. “It must be recognized that this action represents a 180 degree pivot from President Trump’s earlier statements. Such a reversal demonstrates plainly why it is so critical to fully understand the President’s further plans for engagement in Syria.” ###
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Committee on Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), and Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), and Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced the Currency Reform For Fair Trade Act. This bill takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. "While President Trump sounded tough on trade during his campaign, his presidency has been full of broken promises," said Rep. Pascrell. "Today we are calling on President Trump to fulfill his promise to address currency manipulation by supporting our legislation. This bill provides a targeted remedy to American manufacturers and workers that are harmed by countries that play against the rules by depressing the values of their currency. It's past time to provide relief to Americans that play by the rules and it's past time for President Trump to take meaningful action on this issue." "During the campaign the President repeatedly declared that he would name China a 'currency manipulator' on day one," said Rep. Levin. "Day one has come and passed, and he has failed to do anything meaningful to give the American people the new trade policy they demanded during the campaign. Rather than bombastic rhetoric, we have a better approach. This bill takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. It complements our support for enforceable currency provisions in our trade agreements and prepares the U.S. for any future currency manipulation which have been shown to have such a devastating impact on US jobs." "Currency manipulation is costing America jobs and it is time to hold China and other countries accountable for their illegal actions," said Rep. Ryan. "We have the most innovative and productive workers in the world, but we need a level playing field if we want to remain competitive. As President Trump meets with Chinese President Xi today, I call on him to remember the promises he made on the campaign trail and get serious about currency manipulation. This legislation is an important step to ensure American manufacturing can thrive and sends a strong message to foreign governments who manipulate their currencies at the expense of our workers." The three members also sent a letter to President Trump in February urging him to go beyond executive action and support this legislation so that U.S. manufacturers will have the confidence needed to invest in the United States (letter).
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), today released the following statement in response to a speech made by President Trump at a conference for North America’s Building Trades Unions: “On the clear need for massive new funding for infrastructure, the President was once again big talk and no plan. “As someone who represented the Building Trades as a young labor lawyer, I was struck by how the President never mentioned the importance of labor unions. They have been a vital link to decent wages, health insurance and pensions. He also conveniently forgot to mention that Republicans have endeavored for years to eliminate prevailing wage protections in the construction industry. “And on a day of horrendous images of the gassing of innocent victims, the President has failed to speak out clearly and personally. He is not as he stated “the President of the world,” but he is a citizen of the world and we expect him to be America’s leader in the world.” ###
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), today released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s draft letter to Congress regarding their intention to begin re-negotiation of NAFTA that was leaked: “It is appropriate that the Trump NAFTA re-negotiation letter came out in March because compared to his campaign rhetoric it is �?in like a lion and out like a lamb.’ “One of the biggest shortcomings in NAFTA was its lack of enforceable labor standards. And in NAFTA implementation, we have seen that a major driver of job loss and wage stagnation in the U.S. is the large wage differential. The terrible labor conditions – laws and practices – in Mexico have completely distorted the market. Consider that Mexican manufacturing productivity increased 80 percent, while real compensation—wages and benefits—actually slid 20 percent between 1994 and 2011. “The Trump Administration should be insisting that Mexico change its labor laws now and bring its practices in compliance with internationally recognized labor standards. They must make it clear in the final letter to Congress that enforceable labor standards will be at the core of the re-negotiation, that Mexico will be required to come into compliance before Congress votes, and enhanced enforcement mechanisms will be available to us. There is time and the Administration should utilize it to change the conditions on the ground in Mexico. “Under a Trump Administration, where the President encouraged auto jobs to flow to southern states for lower wages during the campaign , the introductory clause, �?consistent with U.S. priorities and objectives’ as to what labor provisions they will seek in re-negotiations causes considerable alarm. “The President set a high bar in his rhetoric about re-negotiating NAFTA, this letter falls short.” ###
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), David Joyce (R-OH), and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) today led a bipartisan group of 63 House lawmakers to request $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) for Fiscal Year 2018, despite the fact that President Trump’s budget blueprint called for the elimination of the program. The Great Lakes provide drinking water for nearly 40 million people and support jobs, commerce, agriculture, transportation, and tourism. “Investing in the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is not just an investment in clean drinking water, jobs, and recreation; it is an investment in the future of the region. Though the Trump Administration may not view the GLRI as a national priority, this group of Members most certainly does,” said Rep. Levin. “We shouldn’t abandon states in the effort to restore the Great Lakes, but instead continue to ensure national coordination through the GLRI. Congress must continue to fully fund this important program so that the entire region can reap the benefits of the Great Lakes.” “This is about where we swim, where we fish, where we work, and most importantly where we draw our drinking water,” said Rep. Joyce. “No matter what region of the Great Lakes you live in this potential funding reduction impacts you. We need to continue to fight to protect our Great Lakes, which contains 20 percent of the world’s surface fresh water.” “The Great Lakes are home to 20 percent of all fresh water on Earth with more than 26 million Americans in our region relying on them for commerce, drinking water, and transportation,” said Rep. Slaughter. “Instead of eliminating the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative as the president has proposed, we should be fully funding this vital program. As co-chair of the bipartisan Great Lakes Task Force, I will continue working with members of both parties to ensure we are meeting our obligation to be good stewards of these lakes.” In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations panel with jurisdiction over environmental programs, the lawmakers are calling for $300 million in 2018 for the GLRI to continue this successful initiative. This is the same amount that the GLRI was authorized in FY16. The GLRI is a seven-year-old effort to protect, restore and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. The inter-agency program provides funding to address vital environmental issues in the Great Lakes, such as cleaning up contaminated sediments, reducing polluted runoff, mitigating habitat degradation and loss, and addressing invasive species such as the Asian carp. The GLRI is working. So far the GLRI has implemented 3,400 restoration projects, has successfully cleaned up six toxic Areas of Concern, and is the most important line of defense in preventing Asian carp from invading Lake Michigan. The program has invested $2.2 billion in Great Lakes restoration over the last seven years. You can learn more about GLRI projects here. A copy of the letter is included below and online here: Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: We write to respectfully request that you provide $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2018 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The Great Lakes are truly a national treasure. The Great Lakes are the largest freshwater system in the world, holding roughly 18 percent of the world's fresh water supply and 90 percent of the United States' fresh water supply. The Lakes are also an economic driver that supports jobs, commerce, agriculture, transportation, and tourism for millions of people across the country. More than a century of environmental damage has taken a significant toll on the Great Lakes, which the GLRI is helping to correct. Since the initiative was launched in 2010, GLRI funds have been used to support over 3,000 restoration projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitat, clean up environmentally-impaired Areas of Concern, fight invasive species, and prevent beach closings. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is showing real and measurable results, but there is still a great deal of work to do. The Great Lakes Basin is vulnerable to various pollutants and invasive species, which threaten the health of the Great Lakes. For example, in 2014 a toxic algal bloom in Lake Erie forced 400,000 residents in the Toledo area to go without home water service for three days. While the GLRI has prioritized monitoring efforts, which help drinking water treatment plant operators and beach managers minimize health impacts associated with these toxic algal blooms, more must be done to better understand and prevent these algal blooms in the future. The federal government commits significant resources each year to address the challenges the Great Lakes face. In particular, GLRI resources have supplemented agency budgets to fund coordinated efforts to protect and restore the Great Lakes ecosystem, and we must ensure that this important work continues. Halting this commitment would reverse years of progress, dramatically reduce the GLRI’s impact, and jeopardize the environmental and economic health of the region. To that end, we urge you to continue this vital investment in the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes by including $300 million for the GLRI in the Fiscal Year 2018 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. ###
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), today released the following statement in response to the Department of Commerce’s announcement that it will investigate China to see that it continues to meet non-market economy status, as defined by U.S. trade laws: “It is clear under long-standing U.S. law and practices that the United States retains the right, and Congress has re-affirmed that right, to continue to treat China as a non-market economy. The investigation launched by the Department of Commerce will be important in updating our factual analysis to re-iterate the obvious facts that China in no way meets the statutory criteria for a change in its market economy status. The simple expiration of one provision in China’s Accession Agreement to the WTO in no way changes this determination and to conclude otherwise would fly in the face of the facts.” ###
03.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), today responded to the new Congressional Budget Office (CBO) analysis of recent changes made by House Republicans, the so-called “Manager’s Amendment,” to legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “The new CBO report confirms how harmful the Republican repeal bill is to the American people – with 24 million losing coverage by 2026. Instead of attempting to correct this gaping hole in health coverage, Republicans are reportedly planning to make it worse by allowing insurance companies to deny claims for essential benefits, including maternity care. “The revised Republican bill eliminates much of the deficit savings in the original legislation to provide an even bigger tax cut – nearly $1 trillion – mostly for corporations and the very wealthy. Two of the biggest tax breaks in the Republican bill would provide over half of their benefits to individuals making over $1 million a year. “This bill breaks every major promise President Trump has made: It doesn’t provide insurance for everybody – it slashes coverage; it doesn’t reduce costs – it makes people pay more; and it doesn’t protect Medicaid and Medicare – it cuts their funding.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), today responded to the deep funding cuts included in President Trump’s first budget proposal: “This is a budget that is deeply destructive for America. It would gravely undermine our nation’s long-time commitment to providing opportunity to all, promoting a healthy America, and protecting our environment. President Trump’s budget would cut funding for health research by $5.8 billion, slash funding for job training and employment services as part of a $2.5 billion cut to the Department of Labor, and eliminate $3 billion in services to local communities under the Community Development Block Grant. It would gut enforcement of environmental protections with a 31% cut to the EPA, terminate vital energy assistance under the LIHEAP program, zero out emergency assistance for refugees, and eliminate programs that provide after-school services to low-income students while cutting overall federal education funding by $9 billion.” “The Trump budget would completely eliminate funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Instead, his budget says it returns responsibility for funding “local environmental efforts” to State and local entities to allow the “EPA to focus on its highest national priorities.” Blinded by his ideology, President Trump is missing the point: the Great Lakes are a national priority. “Even with all of these harsh cuts, the budget proposal leaves out key information, such as policy on revenue measures or funding for mandatory programs like Medicare and Social Security.” ###
03.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), today responded to President Trump’s announcement that the Administration would revisit the mid-term evaluation and the fuel economy standards finalized by the Obama Administration in January: “President Trump today indicated he would revisit the fuel economy standards finalized by the Obama Administration in January. What’s at stake is the clear progress our auto makers have made in increasing fuel efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions under a national standard and regulatory process. We must not return to the unworkable patchwork of state and federal standards that the original agreement was tailored to prevent. We need to continue to pursue a collaborative effort to ensure the best outcome for consumers, the environment and the auto industry. “Finally, we must also recognize the gains of the auto industry under President Obama’s leadership – seven straight years of sales growth and hundreds of thousands of new jobs.” ###
03.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee today responded to analysis conducted by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on the Republican legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Rep. Levin was the Chair of the Ways and Means Committee when the ACA was signed into law: “This report demonstrates that 24 million Americans would lose their health coverage by 2026 and the bill would substantially raise insurance premiums for older workers. "Confirming other analyses, the CBO report shows in a clear, shocking way the Republican plan jeopardizes for the American people insurance vital for their health, and often their lives. “Rushing to vote before the full consequences were understood, Republicans can’t hide any longer from the reality of their plan. It unmasks President Trump’s promise to provide insurance for everybody that will be much less expensive. “All of this pain comes as the Republican bill would provide a $600 billion tax cut to corporations and wealthy individuals.” ###
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today responded to the Republican legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The bill was voted out of the Ways and Means Committee early Thursday morning: “The Republican repeal bill will hit older workers with a double whammy. It will raise their health insurance premiums at the same time it reduces their tax credits to help pay for that insurance. “This week, Republicans voted in the Ways and Means Committee to replace the current tax credit for health coverage with one that will provide less assistance for most moderate and middle income workers who are near the age of 60, according to an analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation. At the same time, Republicans in the Energy and Commerce Committee voted on a bill that would allow insurance companies to jack up insurance premiums for older workers. “This is a toxic combination for older workers needing affordable health care.” ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today offered an amendment at the Ways and Means Committee markup that calls for any Affordable Care Act repeal legislation to have a public score from the Congressional Budget Office available seven days prior to committee consideration. “In 2009, when Democrats brought health reform legislation through this Committee, we posted draft legislative language one month in advance. We held a hearing specifically on that draft, in addition to holding six other health hearings that year. One of those hearings was to hear from the Secretary of HHS,” said Rep. Levin. “Republicans complained bitterly that it was not enough. But now you bring forth legislation that doesn’t meet any of the criteria that Democrats met.” Republicans would not agree to the transparency measure, designed to ensure both Members and the public can fully understand the impact of the repeal legislation. The amendment was ruled out of order. A pdf of the amendment is available here. ###
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement in response to the revised Executive Order on refugees: “President Trump's latest Executive Order continues to shut the door to refugees fleeing persecution, and it continues to enforce a de facto discrimination based on religion. This irresponsible Executive Order will harm national security by deterring Muslim allies from working with the United States and by providing a recruiting tool for terrorists. The United States should continue to serve as a beacon for those in desperate situations, and we can and must both fight terrorism and help those who seek to escape it.” ###
03.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement in response to reports that the Trump Administration has proposed cutting the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) funding from $300 million to $10 million. “Given the success of this critical program around the region, it’s unconscionable that the President would slash funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative,” said Rep. Levin. “We must continue to have a strong federal commitment.” The GLRI has also accelerated the cleanup of Areas of Concern (AOC) around the Great Lakes. Since 2009, three sites – including White Lake in Michigan – have been de-listed. As a comparison, between the identification of AOCs in 1985 and 2005, only one site was cleaned up and del-listed. Over the last eight years, with bipartisan support from Congress, the federal government has invested nearly $2 billion on more than 2,000 GLRI projects. This inter-agency program focuses on five major Great Lakes ecosystem problems: cleaning up the Great Lakes Areas of Concern (AOC), fighting invasive species, targeting nearshore nonpoint pollution, restoring habitat and protecting wildlife, and promoting environmental education and partnerships. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s 2017 Trade Policy Agenda released earlier today: “The 2017 Trade Agenda released by the Trump Administration continues to highlight problems with trade that many of us have highlighted for decades, but it fails to describe the specific steps they would take to address them. Understanding that they are awaiting the arrival of a confirmed United States Trade Representative (USTR), I look forward to the more detailed report they have indicated they will submit. “I have long fought to stand up for U.S. workers and businesses in the global marketplace including in the Uruguay Round where I helped lead the effort to safeguard strong U.S. laws against countries dumping their products in the U.S. and causing major job loss. Unfortunately, the manner in which they describe “sovereignty” to anchor many of their principles comes with a downside that they fail to acknowledge. Too often “sovereignty” is used as a red herring by others to avoid changing their laws which are blocking U.S. exports or disadvantaging U.S. workers. “We insist on reasonable changes to other nation’s intellectual property protections, regulations that unjustifiably discriminate against U.S. products in foreign markets, and labor laws to name just a few, and we would never accept the argument that a country in a trading arrangement with us won’t act because their sovereignty is being impinged. The very nature of the global trading system, and bi-lateral trade agreements are changes in the laws and practices of the countries involved. “We need to fix the global trading system not withdraw from it. “Finally, the stated objective to “enforce labor provisions in existing agreements…” is completely unacceptable since many of our Agreements have no enforceable provisions, and others have very inadequate “enforce your own law” provisions. We must insist that countries we trade with abide by international labor standards and allow their workers to join unions and bargain collectively as this is a major component, as very true for Mexico and NAFTA to make more competitive the playing field between nations.” ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement after President Trump’s joint address to Congress: “The President’s rhetoric of unity and common ground was unfortunately not matched in his policy suggestions where he continued vague and divisive statements littered with falsehoods. The Affordable Care Act is not collapsing and Republicans proposals to date serve only to destroy the health care that millions of Americans currently rely on; his approach to education would dramatically undermine public education; and his proposals on immigration will not engender common ground but further divide us.” ###
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (MI-14), Sander Levin (MI-9), Dan Kildee (MI-5), Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today issued the following joint statement concerning their guests for Trump’s joint address to Congress: “Our special guests for President Trump’s joint address to Congress reflect the strength and diversity of our districts, the state of Michigan and this great nation. “They understand and appreciate the importance of every American having affordable access to good quality health care. This means protecting and strengthening the Affordable Care Act and not cutting Medicare and Medicaid. “Our guests also know first-hand that our diversity is a strength, not a weakness; that refugees help build up our communities, not tear them down; and that a sensible immigration policy enhances our national security and does not endanger it. Halting and then slashing refugee admissions will not serve our national interest, and banning visas and admissions from exclusively majority-Muslim nations goes against our country’s long standing commitment to religious freedom. A Muslim ban also makes us less safe; the Department of Homeland Security’s own analysis concluded that citizenship itself is an ‘unlikely indicator’ of danger to the United States. “We stand together in opposition to President Trump’s unlawful and un-American ban on Muslims and refugees; his plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act; and other disastrous policies that don’t represent our country’s best interests.” Below is a list of guests: Guest of Rep. John Conyers: Nabih Ayad, an attorney and founder of the Arab American Civil Rights League in Michigan. Guest of Rep. Sander Levin: Lindsay Helfman, she and her family have been positively impacted by the Affordable Care Act. Guest of Rep. Dan Kildee: Dr. Mona Hanna–Attisha, the Flint pediatrician a daughter or Iraqi-American scientists who helped to expose the Flint water crisis. As a child, she immigrated to the U.S. with her parents fleeing Saddam Hussein’s oppressive regime. Guest of Rep. Brenda Lawrence: Fatima Salman, Executive Director of the Muslim Student Association and board member of Michigan Muslim Community Council. Guest of Rep. Debbie Dingell: Phoebe Hopps, a community organizer who led the Michigan chapter of the Women’s March on Washington and whose family has been positively impacted by the Affordable Care Act. ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued a prebuttal in advance of President Trump’s joint address to Congress: “Yesterday, President Trump conceded that health care is complicated. Tonight, he should admit to America that despite drafts and discussions, Republicans don’t have a replacement for the coverage provided by the Affordable Care Act. “Lindsay Helfman from Hazel Park, Michigan, who will be attending tonight’s joint session of Congress as my guest, is one of the millions of Americans who have been helped by the ACA. She deserves to hear the truth about what President Trump and Republicans in Congress will do to her family’s health care. “None of the Republican proposals, white papers or leaked drafts will repair, rescue or replace health care – instead they will rip away health coverage from millions of Americans. Telling someone with cancer that they should depend on a health savings account for their treatment is not a rescue, it’s a cruel hoax. Cutting federal support for Medicaid is not a repair, it’s denying assistance to those needing health care. And raising taxes on middle-income Americans in order to cut taxes on the wealthy is not a replacement, it’s just a cost shift from millionaires onto working families. “Congressional Republicans have been promising a replacement for the ACA for seven years, but they have never put forward a bill. The reason for that is not complicated. They simply don’t have a plan that comes even close to matching their rhetoric. Confessing that reality might be painful for President Trump’s pride, but taking away coverage from 32 million Americans and threatening employer-sponsored health insurance for 177 million more, will inflict a much greater pain in every corner of our nation.“ ###
02.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statements after a report of a draft Republican health care proposal: Ranking Member Neal: “There isn’t a single redeeming quality in the House Republican draft health legislation; rather, it’s a recipe for disaster for our nation's health care program. It would give a massive tax cut to the wealthiest Americans while increasing taxes on middle-class workers by taxing their health benefits for the first time. It would harm seniors by allowing insurers to charge older Americans more for lower quality services and jeopardizing the Medicare trust fund. It also would significantly cut and cap the program that provides health coverage to more than 70 million Americans, including seniors in nursing homes and children living with severe disabilities. This is nothing but a drastic and devastating step backward for Americans.” Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Levin: “The Republican draft bill that was reported on today is not a repair of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), or even a replacement. It is a complete demolition of health care coverage for millions of Americans. “Not only would it roll back expanded health insurance under the ACA, it also would cut the federal commitment to the Medicaid program, threatening nursing care for seniors and health care for children. Additionally, the Republican draft would increase taxes on certain employer-sponsored health benefits, eliminate the requirement that larger employers provide health insurance to their employees, and offer tax credits only to those without work-based insurance. This toxic combination would encourage employers to drop health insurance for their workers, threatening coverage for the 177 million Americans who have employer-sponsored health plans. “The GOP draft bill also represents a huge cost shift – from the federal government on to the states, and from the wealthy on to working families. Under the Republican draft, millions of middle class families will have to pay more for their health care, while millionaires will get enormous tax breaks.” ###
02.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today announced that his guest for President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress next week will be constituent Lindsay Helfman, of Hazel Park, Michigan. She and her family have health coverage because of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and her attendance will spotlight the many provisions of the ACA that are helping families throughout Michigan, and the entire nation. “I’m pleased to have Lindsay attend the joint session address as my guest,” said Rep. Levin. “Her story demonstrates the vital role the ACA has played in helping working families obtain health insurance. She is a personal reminder of how much is at stake with Republican efforts to repeal the law.” “The ACA has impacted nearly everyone in my family,” said Lindsay Helfman. “After my daughter was born in June of 2014 my family qualified for Medicaid under the expansion. I literally cannot express the peace of mind that I have because my daughter can access routine and emergency medical care because of the ACA and Medicaid expansion.” ###
02.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member today wrote a letter to Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), urging a full and transparent evaluation of any efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The letter also reminded Chairman Brady of past Republican requests for transparency. “The American people have a right to know the full effect of legislation that might drastically affect their health care coverage and costs. If the committee fails to meet these basic tests of transparency, they will be denied that opportunity,” Rep. Levin wrote. The letter requests that Republicans meet three tests of transparency: 1) a 4-week review of legislative language before a committee markup; 2) a hearing specifically on that legislative proposal; and 3) a separate hearing with the Secretary of HHS to discuss relevant issues. Democrats adhered to all three of these standards in 2009 leading up to the ACA. A PDF of the letter can be found here, and the full text is below: Dear Chairman Brady: I am writing to strongly urge that the Committee, and the American public, be given sufficient time to evaluate any proposal to significantly change health care in our nation. In 2009, you joined in dissenting views on health reform legislation considered by the Committee, saying that legislation should not be "unnecessarily rushed through the Committee without proper understanding" and that "the issues are too important and the decisions too difficult to act in haste and without the full range of information necessary to make such critical policy choices." I agree and believe it is therefore imperative that any legislation coming before the Committee meet at least three tests of transparency: (1) a 4-week review of legislative language before a committee markup; (2) a hearing specifically on that legislative proposal; and (3) a separate hearing with the Secretary of HHS to discuss relevant issues. Democrats met all three of these standards when the precursor to the Affordable Care Act came through the Committee in 2009. Republicans argued for even more then, so it would seem untenable for you to provide much less now. On May 6, 2009, the Committee held a hearing with HHS Secretary Sebelius to discuss health care reform. To date, the majority has not expressed any intention to hold a hearing with current HHS Secretary Tom Price before considering legislation. On June 19, 2009, the Committee publicly released draft legislative language, four weeks prior to the Committee marking up legislation. By contrast, the current majority has not released any legislative text on its plan to repeal current law, only a general outline without any details. And finally, in addition to holding a half dozen hearings in 2009 on various health reform issues, the Committee held a hearing on June 24 to specifically examine the legislative text released earlier that month. At this point, we have heard no intention from the majority to hold a hearing after you release legislative language. In fact, the Committee has not held a single health-related hearing this year, and the Health Subcommittee, of which I am the Ranking Member, has yet to hold even an organizational meeting. The American people have a right to know the full effect of legislation that might drastically affect their health care coverage and costs. If the Committee fails to meet these basic tests of transparency, they will be denied that opportunity. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Sander M. Levin ###
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Committee on Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), and Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), and Tim Ryan (D-OH) today sent a letter to President Trump today urging him to go beyond executive action and support legislation that would direct the Department of Commerce to treat currency manipulation as a countervailable subsidy. “We have read reports that your Administration is looking at the possibility of addressing this issue, specifically by treating manipulated exchange rates as export subsidies and applying countervailing duties against countries that benefit from the undervalued currency,” the Members wrote. “Instead of simply making this change through executive action, however, we urge you to support legislation that would make this change permanent. Without legislation, the next Administration could revoke this much-needed policy with the stroke of a pen.” The Members went on to note that without assurance that this policy will be in place permanently, U.S. manufacturers will not have the confidence needed to invest in the United States. A PDF of the letter is available here. ###
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In responding to the release of a House GOP white paper on health care, as well as recent comments from leading Republicans on their plans, Representative Sander Levin (D-MI), the Ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today said: “The 177 million Americans with employer-based health insurance are now at severe risk. Republicans are pursuing three policies that when taken together threaten to significantly unravel the health insurance now received by working Americans. “First, Republicans are considering capping the current exclusion for taxing employer-sponsored health benefits. Not only will this raise taxes on Americans, it will reduce the present incentive for employers to continue to provide health insurance to their workers. Second, the GOP wants to eliminate the employer mandate, which requires larger businesses to provide health insurance. Once again, this will entice employers to drop coverage. And third, the recent Republican white paper proposes a scaled-back tax credit for health insurance that is available regardless of income but only for individuals without employer-sponsored health insurance. This could lead to employers ending their health plans with the suggestion that their workers instead take these new credits, even if they are nowhere close to replacing the value of their former employer plan. The combination of these policies is a very dangerous mix for Americans depending on employer-sponsor health insurance. “Just follow the money – Republicans are raising taxes on working families to provide a tax cut for the wealthy, and in the process they are threatening the health insurance of millions of Americans. One analysis shows repealing the revenue provisions in the Affordable Care Act would provide about a $50,000 tax cut to millionaires. To make up for that lost revenue, Republicans want to raise taxes on the health insurance received by working Americans.” ###
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statements after reports of House Republicans’ latest health care messaging proposals: “The Republican talking points outline discussed today is a bad deal for all Americans,” said Ranking Member Neal. “If you like what you have today, you can’t keep it. You might not be able to get coverage at all, especially if you're an older worker. It undermines employer-sponsored coverage for 177 million Americans and raises taxes on workers. Compounding the injury, Republicans pull coverage from working Americans who just gained it under Medicaid. It also would ration care for nursing home patients, children, pregnant women, and people with disabilities – nearly 70 million in all – who rely on Medicaid. It threatens Medicare for 56 million Americans by shortening the life of the Trust Fund. I call on my fellow Americans to reject this reckless set of ideas.” “The Republican white paper released today reiterates past GOP proposals that would reduce coverage, raise costs and eliminate protections in our health care system,” said Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Levin. “Not only does it call for repealing the improvements made under the Affordable Care Act, it also threatens employer-provided health insurance, and the care that seniors, children and Americans with disabilities now receive from Medicaid. This isn’t a fix or a repair – it’s a wrecking ball that will rip away health care from millions of Americans.” ###
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement in response to the President Trump’s comments at the joint press conference regarding the two-state solution: “I fear that today’s press conference will create more confusion than clarity. “The goal of a two-state solution has been a guiding principle for decades of every Administration, Republican or Democratic. In their search to help the parties themselves move in that direction, it has been more than a label. “The peril in the President’s saying he is for either a “two-state” or a “one state” approach is that is it not policy but could be an opening for a complete abandonment of a two state solution without any clear indication of a viable alternative. “I agree with the Prime Minister that any resolution must completely assure Israel’s security. It is difficult to see how today’s press conference will help to achieve that goal.” ###
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement on why Republicans should use existing authority to review President Trump’s tax information. Yesterday, during a House Committee on Ways and Means markup, Republicans refused to support an amendment that would have achieved that goal: “In attempting to defend his refusal to use his statutory authority under Section 6103(f) of the Internal Revenue Code to review President Trump’s tax information, Chairman Brady yesterday suggested that my opposition to Republicans using this authority in 2014 justified their inaction. In fact, just the opposite is true. The case for the Committee gathering President Trump’s tax information is very strong, whereas the case for Republicans selectively releasing private taxpayer information for dozens of organizations in 2014 was non-existent according to a former Chief of Staff for the Joint Committee on Taxation. “In 2014, as Ranking Member of the Committee, I highlighted that the Chairman should only use his authority to release taxpayer information as part of the Committee’s responsibility for “the administration of our tax laws.” Section 6103 of the IRC defines “tax administration” to include “the development and formulation of Federal tax policy relating to existing or proposed internal revenue laws.” Obtaining President Trump’s tax data is essential to the Committee’s ability to proceed in discussions and negotiations on developing tax policy and on amending the tax code with the only individual able to sign such legislation into law. It is important to understand how such tax reform would benefit the President, his 564 financial positions in domestic and foreign companies, and his self-reported net worth of more than $10 billion. Since the early 1970s, every President has chosen to release their individual tax returns with the exception of Republican President Gerald Ford who released summary tax data. Tax returns provide the clearest picture of a President’s financial dealings, including how much he earns, if he pays taxes, his sources of income (including from ventures in foreign nations), the size of deductions, the amount of charitable contributions, and generally whether he uses loopholes or other special-interest provisions in the tax code to his advantage. All of these items are critical in order to gain a more complete understanding of how tax reform will benefit President Trump and his businesses, not to mention other potentially compelling issues related to national security. “By contrast, the release of taxpayer information by the Republican Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means in 2014 was completely unnecessary to the Committee’s responsibilities to oversee our tax laws. Former Chief of Staff for the Joint Committee on Taxation, George Yin, summed it up this way in a recent paper, “Although the disclosures occurred in connection with the committee’s allegations of possible criminal misconduct by a high-ranking IRS official (Lois Lerner), most of the return information released was completely unrelated to the oversight objective and no disclosure was necessary to support the committee’s claims. In fact, there does not appear to have been any purpose whatsoever for the disclosures other than possibly providing a partisan political advantage to the committee majority.” Additionally, if the Committee wanted the Department of Justice (DOJ) to have any of this information for a criminal investigation, it could have engaged in discussions with DOJ to see if the agency already had access to these documents under its own 6103 authority or designated specified DOJ employees as agents of the Committee to review the confidential tax information, without releasing it to the public. The public release was solely for political purposes. “In 2014, Committee Republicans wrongly used the authority in Section 6103(f) of the Internal Revenue Code to release private taxpayer information. Chairman Brady should not now use that as an excuse for his failure to properly use such authority to obtain tax information from President Trump.” ###
02.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In advance of President Trump’s meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Friday, Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) detailed the long-standing economic barriers put in place by Japan to block U.S. exports. Rep. Pascrell is the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee. Rep. Kaptur is co-chair of the House Auto Caucus. She and Mr. Levin traveled to Japan in the mid-1980s to highlight the problems with U.S.-Japan trade. “Japan’s unfair trade practices have resulted in a massive trade imbalance that have hurt American workers and businesses for decades,” said Levin, Kaptur and Pascrell. “The U.S. must make it clear that any discussions of a bi-lateral agreement would address currency manipulation, eliminate all of the non-tariff barriers, include provisions to prevent new barriers, and link any U.S. tariff reduction to demonstrable opening of the Japanese market.” You can read a PDF of the letter here, or the full text is below: President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, Japan’s significant, long-standing, and persistent economic barriers put in place to block our exports and support theirs have hurt American workers and businesses for decades. The total U.S. – Japan trade deficit stands at $68 billion. Nowhere is the closed nature of Japan’s market more evident than in the auto sector which has consistently made up close to 70% of the overall deficit. Strikingly this auto deficit has remained unchanged for decades. Japan’s policies and practices have been carefully honed to keep out American and other foreign cars and parts. Consider the following facts: Japan’s Auto Market is Closed. Even though Japan is the third largest auto market in the world, its auto market import penetration rarely breaks 6% - the lowest among all OECD members. The unfair non-tariff barriers have varied over the years, but their purpose remains the same - to block imports. The barriers have included a discriminatory system of taxes, onerous and costly vehicle certifications procedures for imported vehicles, a complex and changing set of safety, noise and pollution standards, an unwillingness by Japanese dealerships to carry foreign automobiles, zoning laws that make it difficult to set up dealerships and the lack of enforcement to prevent anti-competitive practices. The list goes on and on and the experience which has been repeated for decades is this: as soon as you fight to eliminate one non-tariff barrier, another one pops up to take its place. Japan has a Proven History of Intervening in Global Exchange Markets and “jawboning” to push down the value of its currency, to limit imports into Japan and boost their exports. In the 2000s we saw currency manipulation move to fore as a tool to keep trade imbalanced. The weak yen became a subsidy for their exports – worth thousands of dollars per vehicle. Japan’s Auto Industry Depends on Protection in Home Market as Export Platform. Japan’s auto sector is overproducing for its domestic market, producing some 11 million automobiles despite having only a 5 million automobile domestic market. Japanese auto producers use this protected home market to sell their products in Japan at high prices and use the proceeds of those home-market sales to subsidize their sales prices in the U.S. market. We write to re-iterate our strong view that the U.S. must make it clear to Japan that any discussion of a bi-lateral trade agreement would include the following provisions: - A strong and enforceable currency manipulation provision; - the elimination of all non-tariff barriers in the auto sector, including auto parts; - a process that allows the U.S. to object to new measures as discriminatory before they are put in place; - a link between a demonstrable opening of the Japanese market to any U.S. tariff reduction; and, - the ability to “snapback” tariffs or extend tariff phase-outs if the benefits of the agreement are nullified or impaired. We respect Japan as an important ally of the United States, and we have spent decades as U.S. policy makers advocating a change in this persistent and damaging trade imbalance. Unfortunately, the barriers to American autos in the Japanese market are deeply structural and shifting, and all negotiated agreements in the past have failed to change the market conditions for U.S. businesses. Any increased investment in the U.S. by Japanese companies does not excuse the unfair treatment of U.S. exports to Japan. Discussions of a bi-lateral trade agreement must hold as a starting point the requirement of real change. A pdf version of the letter is available here. ###
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Responding to various recent comments on health care by GOP leaders, Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Ranking Member on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, today said: “Republicans hope their misstatements, exaggerations and outright lies about health care will hide the truth. But the facts are plain to see – Republican efforts to repeal the health reform law would result in millions of Americans losing their health coverage and millions more being forced to pay higher premiums. No amount of twisting the facts can reconcile this reality with their rhetoric.” Recent examples of GOP statements that hide the truth on health care include: RHETORIC: Speaker Ryan says the Affordable Care Act (ACA) is in “the middle of a collapse.” REALITY: Really, it’s the GOP rationale for repeal that continues to collapse (even among Republicans). Thanks to the ACA, the number of uninsured Americans is at an all-time low. Multiple plan options are available for 82% of consumers in the ACA marketplace. And let’s not forget that before the ACA, many consumers had no choice when they were denied coverage because of discrimination against pre-existing conditions. Insurance premium growth in the marketplace is below forecasts from the Congressional Budget Office, and financial assistance is available for four-fifths of those in the marketplace and is adjusted for premium changes. By contrast, Republicans are pushing for plans with much higher deductibles, limited financial assistance, and fewer protections for patients. RHETORIC: President Trump claims the ACA is a “disaster.” REALITY: Experts say repeal is the real disaster. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office projects that repealing the ACA would increase the number of uninsured Americans by 32 million and cause health insurance premiums in the individual market to double. Other independent analysts likewise predict that repeal would cause huge and extremely harmful disruptions, with over 80% of those losing insurance being in working families. RHETORIC: Republicans blame lower enrollment on the ACA. REALITY: Republicans have attempted to sabotage ACA enrollment but millions still enrolled. In December, signups for ACA coverage were running higher than in previous years. Only after President Trump’s executive order and decision to halt ACA outreach, did enrollment dip in States operating under the federal exchange compared to previous years. (Some states running their own exchanges have continued to see higher enrollment.) Even with GOP obstructionism, 9.2 million Americans have signed up for health plans in the ACA marketplace (with some States still to report data on enrollees). You can view this on Medium here. ###
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs, Reps. Andy Harris (R-MD), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and Sander Levin (D-MI), today issued the following statement on the escalation of violence in Eastern Ukraine: “We call on Russia-controlled separatists to immediately stop the violence in Eastern Ukraine, honor the ceasefire, and withdraw heavy weapons. We reaffirm our support for the Minsk accords, and stand in strong opposition to all efforts that would encourage military action against Ukraine. “As Co-Chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus we are deeply concerned with loss of life, and the deteriorating humanitarian condition in Avdiivka, in eastern Ukraine, since heavy fighting broke out on January 28th. According to Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), at least eight people have died in the last three days, and 17,000 civilians, including 2,500 children, do not have access to water, electricity, or heat in below freezing temperatures. With each continued day of fighting, their condition becomes more dire. “The United States must stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our European allies and with the Ukraine people, who have demonstrated time and again their will for a sovereign and democratic country, free from Russia's interference. We strongly urge Russian authorities to respect human life and abide by the ceasefire.” ###
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement in opposition to the nomination of Betsy DeVos as Secretary of Education: “The Secretary of Education should be a champion of public education, not a leading proponent of undermining it. In Michigan, Betsy DeVos advocated for lower standards for charter schools than other taxpayer funded schools, as well as for diverting public funds to private schools. We need an experienced and knowledgeable administrator for our educational system, but DeVos’ comments at her confirmation hearing demonstrated a lack of familiarity with a number of key issues, including special education laws that go back to my days in the State Senate. “I am opposed to her nomination, and I encourage all in the Senate to vote against confirmation.” ###
01.28.2017	ROSEVILLE, MI – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s Executive Order on refugees: “President Trump’s Executive order bars all travelers from seven mostly Muslim nations for at least 90 days, and it effectively prohibits Muslim refugees from anywhere in the world being resettled in the U.S. for a minimum of 120 days, and in case of Syrian refugees, indefinitely. This shuts the door to Muslims fleeing violence and persecution. “Our nation has served as a beacon for those in desperate situations, and with the President’s Executive Order, that light is much dimmer today. The total ban of Syrian refugees, who are fleeing deplorable conditions and caught between the Assad regime and ISIS, is neither an effective national security strategy, nor reflective of our character as a nation. The Administration’s action fails to acknowledge the rigorous and lengthy process which currently takes between 18-24 months, and involves multiple Federal intelligence, security, and law enforcement agencies. The safeguards include biometric (fingerprint) to confirm identity, multiple layers of biographical and background checks, medical screenings, and in-person interviews. At any time during the process, refugees cannot be resettled to the United States if U.S. security agencies cannot verify details, or if they cannot pass screenings. We can and must both fight terrorism and help those who seek to escape it. This Executive Order does neither.” ###
01.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statements amid reports that the Administration has ended outreach and advertising that provides Americans with information on how to enroll for health insurance at HealthCare.gov: “Reports that the Administration has quietly ended all public outreach and advertising of the 2017 open enrollment season is a misguided effort to undermine the Affordable Care Act,” said Ranking Member Neal. “Actively working to suppress health insurance enrollment directly contradicts President Trump’s stated desire to provide insurance to everyone. President Trump has built another road block that separates the American people from critical lifesaving insurance coverage. I strongly urge President Trump and Congressional Republicans to end their longstanding fixation to undermine the current healthcare system and spend more time finding constructive ways to strengthen our nation’s healthcare system for America’s families.” “President Trump is continuing to undermine the ability of Americans to obtain health insurance,” said Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Levin. “With this latest action, halting advertisements to remind individuals to sign up, the President is telling the public he would prefer a country where fewer individuals have health coverage.” ###
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s Executive Order on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and announcements on trade: “Withdrawing from a trade agreement that has not yet even been presented to Congress and indicating you are going to renegotiate NAFTA are symbolic steps. Hillary Clinton and the majority of Democrats in the Congress opposed TPP and have long advocated fixing NAFTA with the President’s Congressional allies taking the opposing view. “The main controversy over NAFTA in the early 1990s was over the failure to include enforceable worker rights and environmental standards and because of that failure the majority of Democrats voted against it in 1993. Our concern was that the lack of these standards would stimulate the movement of manufacturing from the U.S. to Mexico. This has happened, driven significantly by the dramatically lower cost of labor in Mexico and weak environmental standards. This is seen in the major growth of production in Mexico of vehicles and parts in the automotive industry. “When Congressional Democrats gained a Congressional Majority in 2007, we authored what became known as the May 10th agreement requiring the insertion of enforceable international worker rights and environmental standards in trade agreements. Unfortunately, these standards have not been effectively enforced and countries have not been required to fully live up to their obligations. Peru is backsliding on its vital logging commitments. Colombia has never fully complied with the Labor Action Plan or the underlying labor obligations in its Free Trade Agreement. “Today in Mexico, there is a legal and administrative system in place that prevents workers in the automotive industry and other sectors from improving their wages and conditions. There are so-called protection agreements that are shams, not negotiated by workers. And the Mexican labor board structure which oversees and enforces these laws is dominated by the Mexican government and employers. As a result, productivity has increased, but wages have not. According to the Center for Latin American Studies, “manufacturing productivity [in Mexico] rose 80% between 1994 and 2011 while real compensation (wages and benefits adjusted for inflation) slid almost 20 percent.” “And this is not just a problem for Mexican workers. As their wages have been suppressed, the wages of U.S. autoworkers slid almost 13 percent from January 2009 through 2015. Labor conditions in Mexico may not be the only cause of lost jobs and depressed wages in the U.S. but it is an important one. Renegotiation of NAFTA must include total remediation of these conditions and President Trump must start by making it clear to Mexico that this is a pre-condition to any new NAFTA. “The renegotiation of NAFTA is now more challenging because markets, industrial and beyond, are far more integrated as a result of NAFTA and its defects. In addition to dismal labor conditions, the investment provisions, the medicines provisions, the government procurement provisions, rules of origin and the environmental provisions all need to be significantly addressed. And, if the President is serious about currency manipulation, all trade agreements must include enforceable currency provisions to prevent future imbalances that unfairly disadvantage American products. “The President should begin by revising the Trade Advisory Committees so that trade negotiations are overseen by a more representative group of people, and are fully transparent to the American people. He should also come forward with a new trade enforcement mechanism so that the American people have confidence that changes will be fully enforced. “On one hand, implementation of the Executive Order on TPP and NAFTA announcement will have to overcome decades of allegiance to outdated trade ideologies in his own Party including the Speaker of the House and his own Vice President. On the other hand, it will have to overcome simplistic rhetoric that cannot substitute for clear and comprehensive approaches to the challenge of the appropriate role of trade in an increasingly globalized world economy.” ###
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s executive order reinstating the so-called “Mexico City language” or “Global Gag Rule” which bars U.S. aid to foreign non-governmental organizations that provide needed medical care and family planning services to vulnerable women across the globe if the organization, using its own funds, performs legal abortion services, provides information or referrals about abortion services, or engages in abortion advocacy. “Just this weekend millions of women gathered around the country and indeed the world to declare women would not go backwards. This morning, President Trump’s executive order on international family planning takes women and families around the globe backward. “Prior to coming to Congress, I served as an Assistant Administrator at the Agency for International Development (USAID) and was responsible for ensuring that no U.S. monies were used for abortion or abortion-related services while at the same time allowing money to support international family planning and vital women’s health care services. It is a balance that can and must be achieved. It is sad that some thirty years later Republicans are still advancing an ideology at the expense of women’s health. “We saw the dangers of this policy the last time it was reinstated with research finding increased rates of unintended pregnancies, unsafe abortions, and the deaths of mothers and their children across the globe, as well as increases in the cost of accessing health care and cuts to services. I opposed the Global Gag Rule when it was first implemented in 1984, and I will continue to oppose this harmful policy. It is vital that we fight to preserve progress on women’s health care here at home and in developing countries around the globe.” ###
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member, today issued the following statement in response to comments from Trump Administration officials in support of turning Medicaid into a block grant. “Medicaid provides vital medical assistance to 74 million people nationwide, including more than 2.2 million in Michigan – covering nursing care for seniors, community-based services for Americans living with disabilities, and everything from immunizations to critical care for low-income children and families. History tells us that turning this program into a block grant, under the guise of increasing state flexibility, is just another way to cut Medicaid’s funding. This not only threatens states like Michigan that have increased Medicaid coverage under the Affordable Care Act, but it also jeopardizes the entire program’s long-time support for vulnerable populations. We cannot allow this assault on our values to prevail.” A more in-depth history of how block grants result in funding cuts can be found here. ###
01.18.2017	ROSEVILLE – Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today issued the following statement on the passing of former District Director Ed Bagale: It is with deep sadness that I learned of the passing of Ed Bagale. Ed was a close friend and valued member of my congressional staff. He took a leave of absence from the University of Michigan Dearborn to serve as my first District Director in 1983. Ed established our constituent services and community development immediately demonstrating his innate ability to reach out to all of the communities in our diverse Congressional District. Ed was a person of remarkable integrity, always being genuine and kind and empowering to those around him, showing a deep commitment to building our community with he and his wife Gail continued throughout his lifetime. He will be deeply missed.” ###
01.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Member of the Ways and Means Committee and Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee today issued the following statement after the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee hearing on the nomination of Representative Tom Price of Georgia to be Secretary of Health and Human Services: “After nearly seven years of promises, Republicans have still yet to produce a replacement for the Affordable Care Act. Today, Representative Price exposed the truth: that they will never replace the coverage and protections they intend to rip away from millions of Americans. In his Senate confirmation hearing as President-Elect Trump's Secretary of Health and Human Services, Representative Price outlined the Republican vision of heath care as Americans only having "the opportunity to gain access" to health insurance. But access doesn't mean you have what you need – just ask any poor family that has "access" to a bank. “Under the ACA, if you have a modest or moderate income, you now receive financial assistance to help you afford health coverage. But Republicans will say you don't need that help as long as you have "access" to health insurance. Under the ACA, if you have cancer, insurance companies are now prohibited from capping your coverage levels. But Republicans will say that protection isn't needed as long as you "access" to some form of health coverage. Under the ACA, health insurers cannot discriminate against you now for simply being a woman, and cannot charge exorbitant rates because you are older. But Republicans will say that's unnecessary as long as people have "access" to health insurance. Under the ACA, you cannot now be denied coverage for a pre-existing condition. While Republicans have said they want to keep that protection, they also promise to eliminate the very provision that makes it possible because people only need "access" to insurance. The ACA recognized that translating access to insurance into Americans actually having health insurance means you need to prevent discrimination, make coverage meaningful, and make coverage affordable. Without these assurances, access is an empty promise. “It's time for Republicans, including Representative Price, to come completely clean with the American people – the GOP will never replace the health coverage offered under the ACA. They will only provide "access" to plans with less coverage, more restrictions and higher costs. In substantial ways, “access” will be for millions an empty gesture.” ###
01.17.2017	WARREN, MI – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin, State Senator Steve Bieda, State Representative Henry Yanez, State Representative John Chirkun, State Representative Patrick Green, Macomb County Commissioner Andrey Duzyj, Macomb County Commissioner Veronica Klinefelt, and Macomb County Commission Marv Sauger today issued the following statement regarding Warren Mayor Jim Fouts and the audio tapes released yesterday: “Each of us represents the citizens of the City of Warren. “We have listened to the audio tapes with the voice we recognize of Mayor Jim Fouts. These comments are hateful. They are racist and disparaging of women. The leader of our State’s third largest city should be a role model for how we treat each other and anyone that harbors these feelings and expresses them is not fit to lead. We believe that these comments, and the previous comments about people with disabilities, do not represent the people of the City of Warren. Therefore, we believe that it would be best for the people of Warren for Mayor Fouts to resign, and we call on him to do so. “It would have been our preference that the individuals making these audio recordings would have immediately turned them over to the proper authorities for investigation so they would have been handled in an appropriate manner and reduced the discussion about the motivation for the recording and the circumstances of the release.” ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today delivered remarks on the House floor in opposition to S.Con.Res.3, the Republican Budget Resolution, which sets in motion the repeal of the Affordable Care Act: (Remarks as delivered) “I just want to say to my colleague from Michigan, hundreds of thousands or people are going to lose their insurance under a plan that was agreed to by the Republican governor. And I’ll send you the numbers in your district. “Mr. Speaker, the Republican effort to repeal the ACA causing 30 million Americans to lose health insurance is based on a foundation of misrepresentations and falsehoods. “The Speaker yesterday said that the Affordable Care Act is collapsing. It is not. Nationwide, enrollment is higher than it’s ever been, and the percentage of Americans without health insurance is at the lowest level on record. “What is collapsing is the time for Republicans to move beyond their rhetoric and come up with a plan. They say they will produce a comprehensive replacement to the ACA, but they have been saying that for seven years. Mr. Neal is here, seven years, Mr. Neal we’ve been hearing that. “Those files on the Republican desk, I wish you would raise them again, aren’t a plan. They are a ploy. “Republicans say repealing the Affordable Care Act will help people, and there is at least a sliver of truth to that claim. The GOP repeal bill will help millionaires, help millionaires – providing them an average tax cut of over $50,000 a year. At the same time, it will actually raise taxes on millions of moderate and middle-income families who will lose tax credits for purchasing health insurance. ###
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today issued the following statement regarding USTR’s announcement that they were filing a World Trade Organization (WTO) complaint on China’s subsidies to aluminum producers: “The Obama Administration has put together a strong WTO action to address overcapacity in China’s aluminum industry which is unfairly propped up and promoted through underpriced loans and illegal government subsidies. “This aluminum case is a vivid example of the harmful impact of unfair trading practices. It is estimated that the U.S. has lost 6,600 jobs in this industry as the number of smelters operating in our country has gone from 14 to 5 in the last eight years. These are the jobs of fellow citizens in communities across our country trying to support their families, send their kids to college and prepare for their futures. Their distress harms their community and major regions of our country. A strong domestic aluminum and steel industry is vital to our manufacturing base. “China’s entry into the World Trade Organization was intended to provide the tools to end their numerous manipulations of the global marketplace, but that will only happen if the U.S., the WTO and all countries involve insist they live up to their obligations. Congress must intensify its role in ensuring this is the case. And because China’s overcapacity in aluminum and steel is also driven by other factors than those issues covered in this WTO case, additional action will be required in the months ahead.” ###
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today issued the following statement after being named by the Democratic Caucus of the Ways and Means Committee as Health Subcommittee Ranking Member: “I look forward to working with my colleagues to protect the health coverage that millions of Americans now receive through the Affordable Care Act, Medicare, and other important programs. There has never been a lower number of individuals without health insurance. We should be working to build on this progress, rather than tear it down by undermining current protections for those with pre-existing conditions or by eliminating financial assistance for those having difficulty affording coverage. And we should protect the guarantee of benefits under Medicare, not replace it with the uncertainty of a voucher. “As the Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee, I will continue to stand up for our nation’s many vital health programs and the millions of Americans who depend on them.” ###
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Labor Office of Trade and Labor Affairs report on labor conditions in Colombia. This report was released in response to a submission received under the U.S. – Colombia Free Trade Agreement. “We are entering the fifth year of labor conditions in Colombia that fall woefully short of the commitments they made under the U.S. – Colombia Free Trade Agreement. That’s why we fought to ensure that the Labor Action Plan was part of the Congressional Implementing legislation and opposed the FTA when it was not. The report verifies, as has the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, that Colombia is failing to meet its obligation in such critical areas as ending the use of contract mechanisms that are vehicles to undermine worker rights and the failure to effectively use penalties against employers depriving workers of the basic rights to bargain collectively. It is very disappointing that DOL’s report concludes simply with recommendations for engagement to address concerns and contact point consultations between the two governments with a 9 month delay before the situation is reassessed. The time for delay is over; we must insist that our trade agreements are enforced.” ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today issued the following statement in response to the commitment from the State Unemployment Insurance Agency (UIA) to review the additional cases marked as fraud during the time when there were automatic computer determinations. Rep. Levin said: “I am very pleased to hear that the State has committed to reviewing the additional fraud decisions made during the period that there were automatic computer determinations. It is important that the Talent Investment Agency has announced a full review of all cases to ensure that anyone wrongly accused of fraud is made whole and has their record corrected, in addition to the comprehensive improvement measures announced for UIA yesterday." Since the April 2016 letter to the Governor, Rep. Levin has continued to call for a full review of fraud determinations made when the automated computer system, the Michigan Integrated Data Automated System (MiDAS), was in use. In late 2016, UIA released data to Rep. Levin which demonstrated a 93% error rate of reviewed fraud determinations between October 2013 and August 2015, however only 22,427 of 53,633 cases had been reviewed. The State has repaid more than $5.4 million to 2,571 individuals who were wrongly accused of fraud and fined. The review announced today will cover the additional determinations not reviewed in 2016. ###
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today issued the following statement in response to the changes announced by the Michigan’s Talent Investment Agency (TIA), which oversees Michigan’s Unemployment Insurance Agency (UIA). Rep. Levin said: “I am pleased to see the changes that the Talent Investment Agency (TIA) Director Wanda Stokes is making at the Unemployment Insurance Agency (UIA). Given the extensive problems identified in the mis-handling of the fraud determinations, including the 93% error of reviewed cases, oversight and thorough changes are long overdue. I appreciate the comments by Ms. Stokes about UIA helping Michiganders through a difficult time in their lives and her commitment to making the agency stronger and more effective. It is vital that these changes happen quickly and are long-lasting, and I hope the state will re-review all of the fraud decisions during the period of automatic computer determination.” Recent data released to Rep. Levin by the UIA demonstrated at 93% error rate of reviewed fraud determinations between October 2013 and August 2015. Rep. Levin called on the State to investigate the Michigan Integrated Data Automated System (MiDAS) system in a letter to the Governor on April 25th, 2016. The recent review was required by the U.S. Department of Labor and initiated after a February 2016 Michigan Auditor General report found that computer-determined fraud was affirmed in only 8 percent of cases that were appealed. The Numbers: Total Fraud Determinations, October 2013 – August 2015 53,633 Total Cases Reviewed by State 22,427 Total Fraud Determinations Upheld 1,462 Total Fraud Determinations Overturned 20,965 Individuals Requiring Repayment 2,571 Amount Repaid to Individuals $5,431,821 Data provided by the State of Michigan Unemployment Insurance Agency. ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding Robert Lighthizer being chosen as U.S. Trade Representative: “Bob Lighthizer understands the harmful impact of unfairly traded imports on U.S. workers and businesses. I have worked with him over the years to strengthen U.S. trade remedy laws. His challenge will be to bridge very disparate opinions in a Trump Administration and create responsible trade policy that moves beyond the Trump campaign slogans.” ###
12.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today released the following statement on the passing of Mandell (Bill) Berman: “Bill Berman brought home from his active service in World War II a deepened determination to live a good life and help others from all walks of life be able to do so. “What followed was an incomparable role with his beloved wife Madge in assisting and ennobling life in Jewish communities in greater Detroit and far beyond, and in a huge variety of other communities throughout his beloved nation. “Bill Berman helped in innumerable ways to build a better world, and for many, many of us the world will now be a very different place without him.” ###
12.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement after it was announced that Dr. Peter Navarro will head the White House National Trade Council: “As someone who has been critical of past U.S. policy regarding China and its gross manipulation of currency and repeated and massive unfair trade practices, the challenge now is to move beyond the bluster and often dangerous suggestions of the President-elect and develop effective, responsible polices that make things better for the U.S. workers and businesses in the global economy, not worse.” ###
12.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today called on the State of Michigan to broaden their review of unemployment insurance fraud cases after a re-review of cases found an error rate of 93% in auto-adjudicated cases between October 2013 and August 4, 2015. “This high level of error rate in accusations of fraud is outrageous for any government program, especially one for unemployed workers trying to stay afloat while they find another job. Running a fully automated system that spit out fraud determinations for such a long period of time was in violation of federal law and completely reckless. In addition, the Auditor General’s report makes it clear that the agency’s due process requirements were severely lacking during this period. “While I’m pleased that a small subset of the cases has been reviewed, the state has a responsibility to look at the additional 30,000 fraud determinations made during this same time period. “Finally, with an Unemployment Insurance contingency fund that has grown so dramatically, the state must do a full accounting of the monies that have flowed into this account. While I am pleased that $5 million has been repaid, it strikes me as small compared to the amount of money that was collected at the time. Only a full audit will ensure the public that the problem has been fully rectified.” Rep. Levin called on the State to investigate the Michigan Integrated Data Automated System (MiDAS) system in a letter to the Governor on April 25th. The recent review was required by the U.S. Department of Labor and initiated after a February 2016 Michigan Auditor General report found that computer-determined fraud was affirmed in only 8 percent of cases that were appealed. The Numbers: Total Fraud Determinations, October 2013 – August 2015 53,633 Total Cases Reviewed by State 22,427 Total Fraud Determinations Upheld 1,462 Total Fraud Determinations Overturned 20,965 Individuals Requiring Repayment 2,571 Amount Repaid to Individuals $5,431,821 Data provided by the State of Michigan Unemployment Insurance Agency. ###
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Members Bobby Scott (D-VA), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) of the House Committees on Education and the Workforce, Ways and Means, and Energy and Commerce respectively, made the following joint statement after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued an order to delay the consideration of House v. Burwell: “This decision to delay the consideration of House v. Burwell until after Inauguration Day puts millions of Americans at risk of losing their health insurance coverage next year. Republicans have relentlessly attempted to repeal and undermine the Affordable Care Act since the law was enacted. If the incoming Trump Administration decides not to defend the legality of the ACA’s cost-sharing subsidies in court, the lower court ruling stands; and we would see the undermining of the insurance market as a whole – both the coverage of those American families who rely on the financial assistance, as well as those who purchase coverage on their own. President-elect Trump promised to stand up for working Americans, but this action would make people worse off, not better, and he hasn’t even taken office yet. Instead of rallying behind partisan attacks without proposing a real replacement to strengthen the law, we urge the incoming Trump Administration and Republican-led Congress to stand on the side of America’s families, students, and working people.” ###
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today made the following statement on the opportunities for Reps. Becerra and Neal: “I wanted to congratulate both of my colleagues, Xavier Becerra and Rich Neal, on the opportunities before them. “The State of California and Californians will be well served by Xavier’s tenacity and dedication to principles of equality, opportunity and inclusion. I know he feels a special responsibility during these difficult times to look after vital legal interests in his home state. “The Ways and Means Committee will also be in good hands with Rich Neal as the Ranking Member and I endorse his election. He has the experience, dedication, and commitment to lead our committee. He has a track record of giving voice to working America and I look forward to working with him to counter reckless proposals by President-elect Trump or House Republicans that seek to turn back the progress we have made.” ###
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today shared the following letter with his Democratic Colleagues in support of Rep. Xavier Becerra’s (CA-34) bid for the Ranking Member position of the Ways and Means Committee: Dear Democratic Colleague, I enthusiastically endorse Xavier Becerra as the next Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee. Xavier brings the perfect set of talents to the challenges we face on the Committee and in the U.S. House as we prepare to confront the uniquely destructive combination of President Trump and Speaker Ryan. Strategic and Articulate – He is smart on policy but in a way that is both strategic and creative. He is always focused on creating a strategic approach and then effectively communicating it to the public. Passionate and Principled – There is never any question about where Xavier stands. He fights for our progressive principles. They have grounded him his entire life in public service. Strong and Collaborative – He has the experience to both reach out and keep us together. In previous legislative battles when there was the risk we would splinter, Xavier always spoke out about the need for unity. He knows that it will be our resolve that will effectively counter Trump/Ryan. His record as our Caucus Chair and a Member of the Ways and Means Committee speaks volumes to the type of Ranking Member that Xavier will be. As Caucus Chair, he has worked hard to involve Members and to assist their offices both in DC and in District. Also, whenever there was a tough job to be done – one where we needed to be sure that our principles were protected – Xavier was called on to represent us. This was certainly the case on the Bowles-Simpson Commission and the so-called Super Committee where Xavier was not going to allow a cuts-only approach that would sacrifice all of our domestic priorities. Having served with Xavier and worked closely with him on the Committee, I am confident that he is the type of next generation leader that we need to fully assume the mantle of leadership in the battles of the next four years; battles that require all of us to be fully and actively involved on behalf of the American people. I would welcome the opportunity to discuss this with you further in the days ahead. ###
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) shared the following letter with his Democratic Colleagues today regarding the Ranking Member position on the Ways and Means Committee: Dear Democratic Colleague, Donald Trump as President changes virtually everything. It has been important that we have taken some time over the last weeks to discuss the future of our Democratic Caucus for we have not faced such an “all hands on deck moment” as we do right now. I want to do my part to ensure that we are united in the efforts necessary to stop President Trump and Speaker Ryan as they seek to take this country in a very different direction and turn back the clock on progress we have made and had hoped to continue making. So, for two reasons, I have decided not to seek re-election to the Ranking position on the Ways and Means Committee. First, it is imperative that we support younger Members as they seek to fully assume the mantle of leadership in the four years ahead, as we also continue to tap the experience of those who have led so many of these battles. Second, I want to be free to focus in addition to tax reform on two of my legislative passions: health care and trade. As Chair in 2010 when we passed the Affordable Care Act, I feel a sense of responsibility to help preserve it and there are now 20 million people counting on us to stop President Trump and the House Republicans from repealing it. In addition, Medicare and Medicaid which have been strengthened by ACA are again under attack by Republicans who have repeatedly tried to turn them into vouchers or block grants. From trying to address unfair trade with Japan in the 1980s, opposing NAFTA in the 1990s, calling out China’s currency manipulation and other unfair trade practices in the 2000s, and writing the language that added labor and environmental standards to trade agreements for the first time, I also feel a special responsibility to continue putting forward solutions to the challenges of globalization as an alternative to the demagoguery of Donald Trump. My determination to fight harder than ever in the next months has only deepened with the news that the creator of the media platform for the dangerous alternative right movement which promotes conspiracy theories and white nationalism will take a seat in the White House advising the next U.S. President. I have very much appreciated your support and look forward to our continued efforts together. ###
11.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement after it was announced that Steve Bannon will be the Chief Strategist for President-elect Trump’s White House: “The appointment of Steve Bannon as senior advisor and chief strategist runs in direct contradiction to President-elect Trump’s statement, “I will be the President of all Americans.” Bannon has a long and troubled history of promoting racist, sexist, anti-Semitic and white nationalist propaganda. This is a deeply disturbing appointment through which to launch his Presidential inner circle and simply continues the divisive negativity of his campaign.” ###
10.21.2016	ROSEVILLE – Rep. Sandy Levin today announced local collection sites for National Prescription Drug Take Back Day, which will take place Saturday, October 22 from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Expired, unused, and unwanted prescription drugs can be dropped off at one of the many participating sites in Oakland and Macomb. “With prescription drug and opioid abuse continuing to grow, National Prescription Drug Take Back Day is more important than ever,” said Rep. Levin. “I’m grateful to our local anti-drug coalitions and their community partners for the critical work they do to educate communities about the risks associated with drug use and abuse.” Prescription medicines that stay in home cabinets are highly susceptible to misuse and abuse, and throwing unused drugs in the trash or flushing them down the toilet can pose safety and health hazards. More information about National Prescription Drug Take Back Day can be found here. A list of collection sites in Oakland and Macomb is available here. ###
10.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), and Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) today applauded the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) announcement regarding the final rule for the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA). Last month, the bipartisan Committee leaders wrote to the Administration urging additional flexibility for practitioners – something reflected in the final rule. “We’re pleased to see the Administration responded to many of our concerns and followed our recommendation to provide clinicians and practitioners more flexibility in the issuance of the final rule for MACRA. These steps help enhance practitioner participation in new Medicare payment opportunities that will ultimately improve patient care and outcomes. Last month, the Administration provided early word of reporting flexibility for physicians and other health care providers. We believe that these and other flexibilities, which are included in the final rule, will help ensure that Medicare beneficiaries receive the value-based care they deserve. This historic law has been a collaborative effort from the start. We are encouraged by this final rule and CMS’s commitment to ongoing collaboration with Congress and the health care community.” ###
10.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after the U.S. Treasury Department issued final regulations to limit corporate tax inversions and further address the use of earnings stripping: “These regulations are another significant step the Administration has taken to restore fairness to the tax system and ensure multinational corporations pay their fair share of taxes. For years, companies have been inverting and engaging in earnings stripping to unfairly lower their tax bills. In the absence of Republican action on tax reform, Treasury has used its Administrative authority to help bring fairness to the tax system. Today’s regulations from Treasury – which took into account extensive comments from the public and intensive meetings with Republicans and Democrats in Congress – go straight to the core of that fairness issue by strongly limiting a company’s ability to use this tax avoidance strategy, which involves disproportionately leveraging a U.S. company with debt and “stripping” the U.S. tax base through deductible interest payments. “The final regulations rightly made sensible changes to the proposed regulations, ensuring it does not unintentionally interfere with ordinary business transactions, such as transactions related to cash management, transactions where there is a low risk of earnings stripping (e.g., between highly regulated companies), and other issues Democratic Ways and Means Members raised in a June letter to Secretary Lew. However, there is still more work to be done by Congress, which is why I introduced a bill in February to address the issue of earnings stripping – legislation that Republicans refused to consider. If Republicans are serious about reforming our tax code and making it fairer for all Americans, they should begin by joining with Democrats to pass legislation to close corporate tax loopholes.” In February, Rep. Levin and House Budget Committee Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) introduced legislation – the Stop Corporate Earnings Stripping Act – to reduce the number of tax inversions by limiting the use of earnings stripping. A summary of the bill and explanation of the earnings stripping strategy can be found here. Rep. Levin and other House Democrats also previously introduced legislation – the Stop Corporate Inversions Act (H.R. 4679 in 2014, H.R. 415 in 2015) – to amend Section 7874 of the tax code to tighten restrictions on inversions. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that the legislation would save the U.S. tax base nearly $41 billion over 10 years. ###
10.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) today released a new report from the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) concluding the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) needs to improve accessibility and reliability of expenditure data for skilled nursing facilities. Skilled Nursing Facilities (SNFs) provide short-term skilled nursing and rehabilitative care following a hospital stay for a surgery, a severe injury or illness. In 2014, Medicare paid $28.6 billion for nearly 1.7 million beneficiaries who received SNF services at approximately 15,000 facilities nationwide. The GAO report was requested by the four lawmakers after concerns were raised about the difficulty of accessing spending data for direct or indirect care for patients. This data is required to be available under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) to assist consumers and advocates in analyzing and finding the best quality of care. Better availability of data and improved oversight is critical to improve patient care. In particular, nurses and patient advocates have consistently called for more attention to staffing ratios. This data provides an interesting starting point for stakeholders to come together and improve patient care. “This GAO report provides critical recommendations about the importance of spending data to help improve the quality of care at skilled nursing facilities across the country,” said Levin, Pallone, McDermott, and Schakowsky. “We need timely, usable, and accurate information about spending so that consumers can make sound choices about their health care and policymakers can ensure that Medicare payments are being spent on patient care and nurse staffing.” The GAO analyzed data from Fiscal Year (FY) 2011 through FY 2014 and found that: Expenditure data was difficult for the public and researchers to access; Self-reported data could not be guaranteed to be accurate; Average direct and indirect care spending was lower for for-profit SNFs compared to nonprofit and government facilities, while average for-profit margins were higher; Average direct and indirect care spending was lower for chain SNFs compared with independent SNFs, while average chain SNF profit margins were higher; While nurse staffing ratios were lower at for-profit SNFs, other factors (such as geographic location and state staffing laws) were more important predictors of staffing ratios. Based on these findings, GAO recommended that the Acting Administrator at CMS take the following two actions to improve the accessibility and reliability of SNF expenditure data: 1) take steps to improve the accessibility of SNF expenditure data, making it easier for public stakeholders to locate and use the data; 2) take steps to ensure the accuracy and completeness of SNF expenditure data. The GAO report is available here. ###
09.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement after attending the funeral of former Israeli President Shimon Peres: “I was privileged to attend the funeral of former Israeli President Shimon Peres. The remarks at the Memorial Service were all a moving tribute to his unique combination of vision and determination with the central goal of Israel’s security in a land of peace.” ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today spoke and participated in a discussion at the Council on Foreign Relations about the need for policymakers to take a fresh look at U.S. trade policy. Rep. Levin’s full prepared remarks can be found below, as well as video of today’s conversation. Click above to watch today’s conversation at the Council on Foreign Relations (Remarks as prepared) It is important that the Council on Foreign Relations organized this symposium, as today’s subject reflects a reality that many in Washington have been trying to ignore: the “future of U.S. trade policy” – and indeed global economic integration more generally – is uncertain and needs to be the subject of a thoughtful and inclusive debate. I have been involved in trade policy since first coming to Congress in 1982, and what is clear is that this situation did not develop overnight – and should not be easily dismissed as election-year “politicking.” Clearly consensus on globalization, including the role of international trade, has been crumbling as noted recently in The Economist magazine. There are many reasons. Some are not directly economic like immigration flows, though those have economic aspects. But some are directly economic. Economic realities have overtaken old doctrines and conventional frameworks. And our trade policies have failed to adjust to these realities. International economic policies remain outdated. The 18th and 19th century notion of comparative advantage tells us almost nothing about modern trade agreements. What do David Ricardo and Adam Smith have to say about the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS) in our trade agreements? About biologics data exclusivity? About trade flows that are based on the denial of minimum international labor standards and the lack of environmental protections? About currency manipulation? Nothing. And the ghosts of Senator Smoot and Representative Hawley still haunt us more than 80 years after they passed their trade bill. Its harmful mindlessness about trade helped to nurture an equally mindless approach that assumes more trade is always better, no matter its terms. That is why New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman was comfortable saying on national television: “I wrote a column supporting CAFTA. … I didn’t even know what was in it. I just knew two words: free trade.” For decades, efforts to shape trade policy to address its downsides as well as maximize its upsides were easily labeled “protectionism.” Legitimate concerns over what some have called “hyper-globalization” were ignored when they deserved to be addressed. The complexities of the global economy were dumbed down to a polarizing debate between the current laissez-faire approach to globalism and Smoot-Hawley protectionism. It caused many of our economists and trade officials to tout, and often exaggerate, the benefits of exports and ever-expanding trade while ignoring the costs sometimes associated with imports. And efforts to address the challenges were not followed up on by U.S. officials. The legislation granting China permanent normal trade relations included a safeguard mechanism against surges of products from China but the Bush Administration rejected the independent International Trade Commission's recommendation to impose the safeguard each and every time it was asked to do so. The Bush Administration also allowed China to make a mockery out of the provision mandating an annual review to determine whether China was meeting its obligations as pledged when it entered the WTO. As the U.S. trade deficit skyrocketed with China substantially because of its currency manipulation, Treasury officials repeatedly refused to designate China as a currency manipulator, as required under U.S. law. Commerce officials refused to apply countervailing duties to address the issue and USTR refused to file a WTO case. Instead, we agreed to give China greater voting shares in the IMF, the organization charged with policing currency manipulation. In 2007, Democrats took historic steps to include enforceable labor and environmental standards in U.S. trade agreements. These standards were first incorporated in the US-Peru FTA, including strong and enforceable obligations of Peru to address to illegal logging in the Amazon. But Peru has not satisfied its obligations since the Agreement entered into force over six years ago. While the U.S. and Colombia negotiated a Labor Action Plan to achieve compliance with basic international labor standards, Congressional Republicans insisted that the Plan not be referred to in the Implementation legislation when the FTA was voted on by Congress. Colombia has been out of compliance with its obligations since the Agreement entered into force over four years ago. While most Americans were not aware of these failures, they did feel the consequences of many of them. And these and other failures to follow-up on trade promises contribute to the unease and mistrust felt by the American people. Voters often ask a basic question, “Whose side are you on?” And, too often, government policies have not been on their side when it comes to trade and globalization. And the research confirms their unease. A recent paper by David Autor, David Dorn, and Gordon Hanson finds that millions of U.S. jobs were lost as a result of imports from China over the past decade- and unemployment rates remain “elevated for at least a full decade after the China trade shock commences.” In the past, economists often simply assumed that the transition to trade liberalization was quick. Realities have led to increased chinks in the armor of conventional international economic and trade rhetoric and theory. Dani Rodrik has written: “We need to rescue globalization not just from populists but also from its cheerleaders.” Larry Summers noted over the summer: “The willingness of people to be intimidated by experts into supporting cosmopolitan outcomes appears for the moment to have been exhausted.” It is clear that we need a fresh look at U.S. trade policy. This is why TPP should not and must not be considered in a Lame Duck session. It would fail. And a Lame Duck vote would only make matters worse in terms of the needed effort to rebuild the trust of the American people. What must be included in a fresh look includes: Currency manipulation must be meaningfully actionable, beyond the incessant jawboning, using IMF agreed upon principles as to what is and what is not currency manipulation. ISDS must be addressed beyond terms in TPP. The increasing use of arbitration by private corporate and moneyed interests to undermine legitimate governmental regulations relating to the environment, health, and beyond, was evidenced in the recent 18 month investigation by Pulitzer-prize journalist Chris Hamby. Worker rights provisions must go beyond rhetoric and become reality before Congress votes. In a recent speech, the former Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda described how the Obama Administration missed an opportunity by not requiring Mexico to have a Labor Action Plan in TPP, rather than accepting Mexico’s adamant stand that labor rights not be linked to trade agreements. In Mexico today, in most cases there are so called “protection agreements” contrived between the labor organization and the government to which it is linked and the employer. They have never been voted on by the employees and were often crafted before there were any of them- really “protecting” a company against a real union. And the labor boards at both the federal and state levels are run by the same three parties, usually leaving dissatisfied workers with no recourse. Mexican workers today are paid a fraction of those in the United States. Trade agreements must assure that as trade and competition grows, they must be increasingly on a level that works for American workers as well as workers in other nations, surely in the case of Mexico with its heightened trade and competition with the U.S. And the TPP as negotiated with its Rules of Origin weaker than NAFTA will further encourage the shift of production to Mexico where their producers will be able to get cheap inputs from China and other low wage countries not in the TPP. As to Vietnam, unlike Mexico, the labor standard provisions are a formal part of TPP. But will they ever become realized when the reality today is that workers who tried to form an independent union remain in jail and those who continue those efforts have been beaten? While many of the products coming into the U.S. from Vietnam with a lowered or zero tariff are not produced in the U.S., some are. And there is a basic need for trade policy to ensure that competition and the flow of goods and services are not based on the lowest common denominator. That has been painfully evidenced in the human tragedies occurring in Bangladesh, in the conditions recently described in India, and in the mistaken movement by the U.S. to upgrade Malaysia from Tier 3 to Tier 2 regarding its grievous record on human sex and labor trafficking. A fresh look will also give us a chance to make the process more democratic. We need much better ways to get the public’s input during the negotiating process. There needs to be a revamping of the structure of advisory committees, to make them more balanced and their work more open. There also needs to be revised structure that guarantees meaningful Congressional participation throughout negotiations. A fresh look also requires new and improved economic analyses of trade and trade agreements. We need to better understand their impact on inequality, on workers’ ability to negotiate decent wages, and on specific sectors of the economy. I urged the International Trade Commission (ITC) to address these and other new issues in its TPP report, but that report falls short. The ITC’s study doesn’t even consider the transition period when new trade flows displace workers. It only models what happens after that painful adjustment process is over, in the “long run.” But as John Maynard Keynes said, “the long run is a misleading guide to current affairs. In the long run, we are all dead. Economists set themselves too easy, too useless a task, if in tempestuous seasons they can only tell us, that when the storm is long past, the ocean is flat again.” With the acknowledged benefits of reduced tariffs and barriers in other countries to American agricultural products and services failing to carry the debate, two arguments have become prominent in urging support of TPP as negotiated. One is that technology, not trade, is the fundamental cause of American job loss and income stagnation. But that constant argument that it is not trade but some other factor bumps into the realities facing the American economy. A recent vivid example is what has been happening in global steel production. The U.S. and China 15 years ago produced about equal amounts of steel. China has since ramped up its production to ten times that of the U.S. and more than the combined total of the United States, the European Union, Japan, and Russia. During the negotiation of the Uruguay Round, former Republican Congressman Amo Houghton and I actively worked in Geneva, sometimes over the skepticism of USTR, to preserve strong anti-dumping and countervailing duties provisions. These provisions have been actively utilized by the Obama Administration. But they are not enough. A new trade policy must face up to how to respond. China is using its state owned enterprises to swamp American steel production. What’s at stake is a basic issue – whether the U.S will continue to maintain a strong manufacturing base. The second argument is that TPP must be approved as negotiated out of geopolitical necessity. There has been a tradition of effort to sell trade agreements on geopolitical grounds and I appreciate these considerations. But we must also remember that trade negotiations were moved from the State Department to USTR in 1962 for a reason. Policy makers wanted our government to better look after our economic interests around the globe. There are geopolitical aspects to TPP but trade agreements must be able to stand on their own two economic feet. An agreement that is not in our economic interest cannot be in our national security interest because our national security depends on our economic strength, including in manufacturing. Take for example, the argument that TPP is important to contain the influence of China. That we should “write the rules” and not let China do so. Okay, but then we need to improve the rules of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and currency. As negotiated, TPP lacks any enforceable commitments on currency, and the disciplines in TPP on SOEs don’t apply if a government controls that enterprise but through less than a majority of the shares. TPP’s weak rules of origin also mean that China gets some of the benefits of TPP – duty-free access to our market – without having to sign up to its obligations. For example, a car assembled in Mexico of mostly Chinese parts will enter the United States duty free under TPP. Hillary Clinton will surely be sensitive to geopolitical factors but not at the expense of the needed fresh look at American international trade policy. A comprehensive and constructive fresh look must be the first order of business in the next Administration on all outstanding issues relating to trade. ###
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement in reaction to the omission of federal funding for Flint in the Republican Continuing Resolution: “It’s unconscionable that the residents of Flint, who are suffering from a man-made disaster, are still waiting for relief from the federal government. We have a duty to our citizens throughout the country – from Louisiana to Flint – to provide assistance when disaster strikes.” ###
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, today sent a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about a detailed media report that the Donald J. Trump Foundation has violated self-dealing laws by using charitable funds for personal benefit. The full letter can be found below and a PDF is available here. ----- The Honorable John Koskinen Commissioner Internal Revenue Service 1111 Constitution Ave. NW Washington, DC 20224 Dear Commissioner Koskinen: As you know, the Committee on Ways and Means has conducted hearings on tax-exempt organizations to better understand how they operate within the context of tax law. With this in mind, I write to ask you to review a detailed media report that the Donald J. Trump Foundation has violated self-dealing laws by using charitable funds for personal benefit. An article in the Washington Post dated September 20, 2016 reported that Donald Trump sent a check from the Donald J. Trump Foundation on at least two occasions to resolve lawsuits or legal disputes related to his business ventures. Mr. Trump reportedly spent a total of $258,000 from the Trump Foundation to resolve these cases. Additionally, the article highlights the purchase of portraits of Mr. Trump with foundation funds. As you know, current rules against self-dealing generally prohibit any direct financial transaction between the foundation and virtually all persons closely related to the foundation (known as disqualified persons). Section 4941 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes an initial, 10-percent excise tax on each act of “self-dealing” between a disqualified person and a private foundation. If the act of self-dealing is not corrected within the taxable period, the initial tax increases to a 200 percent excise tax. See I.R. C. § 4946(b)(1). The “taxable period” begins on the date the act of self-dealing occurs and ends on the earlier of (1) the date of mailing a notice of deficiency, (2) the date on which the initial tax is assessed, or (3) the date on which correction of the self-dealing act is completed. See I.R.C. § 4946(e)(1). The excise tax is paid by any disqualified person who participates in the act of self-dealing. A “disqualified person” includes an officer, director, or trustee of a foundation. See I.R.C. § 4946(a)(1)(B) & (b)(1). Thus, Mr. Trump, as President of the Trump Foundation would be considered a “disqualified person.” The term “self-dealing” includes any director or indirect transfer to, or use by or for the benefit of, a disqualified person of the income or assets of a private foundation. I.R.C. § 4941(d)(1)(E). The regulations, in defining when the transfer to or use by a disqualified person of the assets of a private foundation constitutes self-dealing, states: “if a private foundation makes a grant or other payment which satisfies the legal obligation of a disqualified person, such grant or payment shall ordinarily constitute an act of self-dealing . . . .” See Treas. Reg. § 53.4941(d)-2(f)(1). Additionally, examples in the IRS manual note that the direct use and benefit of an asset of a private foundation (including art work) by a disqualified person constitutes self-dealing. See I.R.M. § 7.27.15.4.1.5. It is important that charitable funds be used for charitable purposes, rather than promote the business ventures of those affiliated with the charity. I therefore request an immediate audit of the Donald J. Trump Foundation. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Sander Levin Member of Congress ###
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), and Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) today introduced the Medicare Affordability and Enrollment Act, which would improve Medicare coverage for all seniors and those with disabilities and modernize the enrollment system to help facilitate easier enrollment. Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) introduced companion legislation in the Senate today. The legislation seeks to make several key improvements to Medicare by establishing a maximum out-of-pocket spending cap for traditional Medicare, expanding access to premium and out-of-pocket payment assistance for low-income beneficiaries, and updating and improving the current Medicare enrollment process. “As a growing number of Americans begin to enroll in Medicare, we have to make sure the program continues to meet their needs and provides affordable, high-quality health coverage,” said Pallone, Levin, Green and McDermott. “This bill would help simplify Medicare for seniors, make coverage more affordable for more Americans, and enable individuals with disabilities to obtain their coverage without a waiting period. Instead of privatizing Medicare – as suggested by Republicans – and destroying it for current and future generations, Democrats are committed to making sure the program works for all Americans who paid into it.” With more than 85 percent of Medicare beneficiaries currently needing supplemental insurance to fully meet their healthcare needs, the four House Health leaders said Congress must improve the actual benefit that Medicare provides. The bill would: Set a maximum out-of-pocket cap of $5,500 for medical services under traditional Medicare, which exists today for Medicare Advantage and most commercial insurance plans; Significantly expand the number of low-income beneficiaries eligible for financial assistance to cover premiums and out-of-pocket costs; Reduce cost-sharing for “near-poor” beneficiaries who are not eligible for any assistance today; Eliminate the arbitrary two-year waiting period for people with disabilities to enroll in Medicare; Modernize the Medicare enrollment system to facilitate easier enrollment, allow people to begin coverage earlier and reduce arbitrary late-enrollment penalties that today are paid for over a lifetime; Extend cost-sharing assistance for Part D enrollees for their prescription drugs in Puerto Rico, which is currently offered to all other eligible Medicare beneficiaries; and, Increase and extend permanent funding for low-income Medicare beneficiary outreach and education activities. The bill has been endorsed by the following organizations: National Coalition on Aging, Medicare Rights Center, The Arc, AFSCME, Justice in Aging, Dialysis Patient Citizens, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, Center for Medicare Advocacy, Families USA, and the National Consumer Voice for Quality Long Term Care. A one-page summary is available here. A section-by-section summary of the bill can be found here. Legislative text of the bill can be found here. ###
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today issued the following statement on the agreement of a ten year military aid package to Israel: “I congratulate the Administration and the Israeli government on reaching an historic Memorandum of Understanding. This agreement provides a record new package of $38 billion in United States military aid to Israel over ten years. The unprecedented agreement represents a 26 percent increase over our existing commitment, and will ensure that Israel can maintain its qualitative military edge in the region, including further procurement of sophisticated missile defense systems, such as the Arrow-3 and David's Sling. “The new Memorandum of Understanding reaffirms the United States and this Administration’s unwavering commitment to Israel’s security and the deep friendship between our nations.” ###
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after the U.S. Census Bureau released its annual reports on income and poverty and health insurance coverage for 2015: “Today’s reports from the Census Bureau show that our nation is making clear and substantial progress with rising incomes, declining poverty, and expanding health insurance coverage for hardworking Americans and their families. Last year, we saw median incomes rise by more than five percent, or nearly $2,800, and the largest single-year drop in the poverty rate since 1968. And despite continued Republican attempts to undermine the Affordable Care Act, the percentage of Americans without health insurance dropped to the lowest level ever recorded. “Republicans’ expression of disappointment reflects their scrambling to deny even good news. One look at these reports shows that there is no denying America is getting stronger economically. But we have to keep building on this steady record of growth and make sure all Americans benefit from it. That can begin with raising our minimum wage, ensuring equal pay for equal work, closing the mind-boggling tax loopholes that favor the wealthy, and investing in our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. Our work continues as we strive to make sure all Americans have the opportunities and support they need to succeed.�? ###
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) issued the following statement after the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) announcement regarding the implementation of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA). The announcement comes just days after the Members sent a letter to the Administration urging additional flexibility for all practitioners. “We’re pleased to see the Administration is including our recommendations in its implementation of MACRA. By providing flexibility for doctors and other health care providers, we are helping ensure this historic law delivers the quality, value-based care Medicare beneficiaries deserve. We’re committed to continuing our work with each other, stakeholders, and the Administration so that doctors can prioritize patient care instead of focusing on burdensome paperwork.” ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) today sent a letter to World Trade Organization (WTO) Director-General Roberto Azevêdo, criticizing the WTO Secretariat’s stance on measures it views as protectionist, and urging the office to better support the rules-based global trading system. “We are deeply disappointed that the Secretariat of the WTO has once again issued a report that expresses concern not with dumping, not with trade-distorting subsidies, and not with unsafe imported foods, but instead expresses concern with measures taken to address those very real problems,” wrote Ranking Members Levin and Wyden. “The WTO Secretariat appears to view its role as facilitating more and more trade or to supporting trade for its own sake. But, for the WTO to continue to play the central role it needs to play in the world trading system, it needs to focus on ensuring the quality of trade, not its quantity…we strongly urge the WTO to reconsider how it monitors and reports on G20 adherence to the undertakings on resisting trade protectionism.” To read the full letter, click here. ###
09.08.2016	(Remarks as prepared) “Mr. Chairman, more than 640,000 Americans today are living with kidney failure, otherwise known as end-stage renal disease, and more than 80 percent of them are covered through Medicare. “The first bill we are marking up this morning – H.R. 5942 – would establish a new facility-based ESRD demonstration program within Medicare. This demonstration would help make sure that patients receiving dialysis are receiving the high-quality, integrated, and coordinated care that they need by a team of physicians and other health care providers. And since this demonstration program would be within Medicare, it would require this team to provide their dialysis patients with all the benefits entitled under Medicare. I commend Mr. Blumenauer for his work on this legislation. “Unfortunately, the second bill we are considering under the guise of improving the ACA – H.R. 954 – is actually another attempt by Republicans to undermine the coverage goals of the Affordable Care Act. The ACA has provided quality, affordable health coverage to more than 20 million previously uninsured Americans, and individuals can no longer be denied coverage – as they could in the past – for pre-existing conditions like high blood pressure or diabetes. And yesterday, a new survey from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that the number of uninsured Americans has fallen to just 8.6% - the lowest level ever recorded. “Republicans say this bill is needed to exempt individuals from paying the individual mandate penalty if a CO-OP plan they were enrolled in is terminated or discontinued mid-year. But what they fail to mention is that the ACA already provides a special enrollment period for individuals who are impacted by this circumstance, so that they do not have to wait until the end of the year to enroll in a new plan. Likewise, in instances when purchasing a new plan would be financially difficult, these individuals could also apply for a hardship exemption from the individual mandate penalty. Therefore, it is unclear why this bill is even necessary, given that the ACA already has other options and solutions in place for those affected by this unique situation.” ###
09.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan leaders from the House Ways and Means Committee and the House Energy and Commerce Committee today sent a letter to HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell regarding the bipartisan Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA). The letter stressed the importance of a successful implementation of MACRA so doctors and other health care providers can deliver the quality care their patients deserve. The letter was sent by Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Pat Tiberi (R-OH), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA), Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Energy and Commerce Committee Health Subcommittee Chairman Joseph Pitts (R-PA), and Energy and Commerce Committee Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX). “The Congressional intent for MACRA was twofold: to consolidate, streamline and ease the burden of the various quality reporting programs for physicians and practitioners and to incentivize quality, value-based care through aligned payment bonuses and reductions for physicians and practitioners,” wrote Brady, Levin, Tiberi, McDermott, Upton, Pallone, Pitts, and Green. “With these principles, we urge the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to ensure that all physicians and practitioners have an equal opportunity to succeed under the Quality Payment Program.” The leaders requested that CMS consider the following flexibilities for all practitioners: Simplified, streamlined, coordinated requirements; Clear pathways to succeed in Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) or the Alternative Payment Model (APM) tracks; Opportunities to move to the APM track and flexibilities to be rewarded for meaningful delivery system reform activities in MIPS and in the APMs; and Appropriate systems ready and in place prior to January 2017 reporting. CLICK HERE to read a copy of the letter. ###
08.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), co-chair of the Congresssional Ukraine Caucus, today released the following statement in commemoration of the 25th Ukrainian Independence Day: “I join the people of Ukraine in celebrating 25 years as an independent democracy, celebrating the long history and heritage of the Ukrainian people. “The United States and the international community must stand with the people of Ukraine against Russian aggression and continue to help Ukraine develop the rule of law and strengthen its democracy.” ###
08.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Labor released its employment report for July: “Today’s employment report shows that our economy has added about 15 million private-sector jobs since early 2010. We must continue to build on this clear record of progress, which includes cutting the unemployment rate in half, providing quality health care coverage to 20 million more Americans, and accelerating wage gains over the last year. “While substantial progress has been made, there is still much more we should do to make our economy work for all Americans. A good first step would be for Republicans to stop blocking common sense reforms like raising the minimum wage, expanding job training and child care assistance, investing in our nation’s infrastructure, and closing egregious tax loopholes for the wealthy. It’s long past time for Republicans to end their obstruction and instead work with Democrats to help all Americans succeed.” ###
07.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) today sent a letter to European Trade Commissioner Cecilia MalmstrÃ¶m and U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman, urging them to cooperate more closely on the issue of China's market economy status, and more closely engage technical expertise and enforcement efforts between the European Commission trade office and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR). The Ranking Members also urged closer cooperation to address concerns about some of the decisions of the World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute settlement panels and the Appellate Body. “We write to urge deeper cooperation on our shared enforcement objectives, including the unique challenges posed by continued market distorting behavior in China,” Ranking Members Levin and Wyden wrote. “The United States and Europe have collaborated in the WTO and other multilateral fora on trade enforcement in the past, including with respect to Chinese export restrictions on raw materials and rare earth elements. However, in other instances this cooperation has fallen short of what is needed to ensure the best outcome for workers and businesses in both Europe and the United States…In our view, the expiration of subparagraph 15(a)(ii) of China’s WTO Accession Protocol does not require WTO Members to grant China market economy status…Going forward, we believe that it is critical that the United States and Europe work much more closely on enforcement matters.” To read the full letter, click here. ###
07.10.2016	(From Left) Fred Rivera, Herman Johnson, Lt. Gen. Guy Swan and Rep. Levin listen as Sgt. John Marek reads the order of the Purple Heart for Johnson. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today joined retired Lt. General Guy Swan and Sgt. John Marek to present Private First Class Herman Johnson with a Purple Heart medal for wounds sustained in the Vietnam War in 1969. Johnson was awarded the Purple Heart as a surprise after his friend and fellow soldier, Fred Rivera, contacted Rep. Levin’s office to help secure the honor. Rivera, who previously believed Johnson died during the Vietnam War, published the novel Raw Man, which outlines his experiences in the war. A fan of the novel, Sgt. John Marek, decided to send an etching of Mr. Johnson’s name on the Vietnam Veteran Memorial to Rivera, but found that Johnson was not listed. After further research, Sgt. Marek discovered that Johnson was alive and living in Warren, MI, and contacted Rivera to share the good news. Rivera and Johnson have since rekindled their friendship, and met in person for the first time in 47 years. “This is a story that makes the Memorial come very much alive. This is a story of just two of the tens of thousands of people who served,” said Rep. Levin. “Soldiers often did not get a hero’s welcome home, and what we’re doing here today is trying to right some of that wrong.” “Thanks to everybody for doing his. I never in my life expected this – I never in my life thought I would see Fred again,” said Herman Johnson. “I’ve been wearing this [bracelet] made from Herman’s bootlaces for 47 years. I wrote this book to help veterans struggling with PTSD, I never thought it would end like this,” said Fred Rivera. The reunion and ceremony took place at the Three Soldiers at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Following the ceremony, Johnson and Rivera visited the Memorial together. ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on the Dallas shootings and deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile: “The events of the week both shock and challenge our nation. Violence at the hands of law enforcement and violence targeting law enforcement during a peaceful protest are reprehensible and rattle our consciousness. Coming in the aftermath of Orlando, this week leaves all of us shaking our heads asking what is going on around us. We must all hold up a mirror and ask ourselves some very tough questions: about hatred, about racial tensions, about anger and violence, and yes about guns. We should each do so walking in the shoes of the parents of Philando Castile and Alton Sterling and the families of the Dallas police officers. The response we have as individuals and collectively will speak volumes about our country. As a Congress, I know we can do better.” ###
07.07.2016	(Remarks as prepared) “Mr. Chairman, the first bill we are marking up today – H.R. 5613 – would help make sure that Americans living in rural America have access to the health care services they need, right in their own communities. The bill would provide additional time for critical access hospitals and other small, rural hospitals to comply with a CMS rule requiring these hospitals’ outpatient departments to have direct supervision of physicians or other approved providers. “The second bill we are marking up – H.R. 5523 – would ensure the IRS can only conduct civil asset forfeiture proceedings for bank deposit structuring if the property came from an illegal source or structuring was done to hide criminal activity. This is, in fact, current policy at the IRS, and this bill would codify that policy. This is a bipartisan bill led by Mr. Crowley and Mr. Roskam, and I thank you for your leadership and work on this important effort in the Oversight Subcommittee.” ###
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) today responded to House Republicans’ release of an ‘investigative report’ on the cost-sharing reduction (CSR) subsidy program in the Affordable Care Act: “House Republicans’ parallel ‘investigation’ into the cost-sharing reduction subsidies while suing the Administration on the very same matter made no sense from the start,�? said Ranking Members Levin and Pallone. “Clearly there is no end to the lengths Republicans will go to undermine the Affordable Care Act. Their notion that the Administration obstructed yet another partisan Congressional ‘investigation’ is absurd, especially after the Administration has provided more than a dozen government officials for hours of interviews. House Republicans are not conducting meaningful oversight, but are instead taking every opportunity to undermine the law and root for its failure. Unfortunately, they are taking actions that will deny much needed healthcare coverage to their own constituents.�? ###
07.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on the passing of former Hazel Park educator and State Representative Dr. Wilfred D. Webb: “Wilfred Webb was a model educator and remarkably warm human being. He dedicated his life at all levels, from teacher to principal to superintendent, to helping students in his beloved Hazel Park develop their God-given talents. Wilfred succeeded, as so many coming from middle class families achieved a variety of hugely successful careers. With so many, his friendship was irreplaceable and will endure. ###
06.29.2016	BERKLEY, MI – Michigan Democrats from the U.S. House of Representatives today continued to call for votes on bipartisan commonsense gun safety legislation. In addition to the Representatives, the event was attended by mayors, police chiefs, members of the clergy, Michigan State representatives, as well as a number of organizations and community members committed to ending the epidemic of gun violence. The discussion focused on two bills, “No Fly No Buy,” which would prevent people on the terrorist watch list from purchasing guns, and another measure which would keep guns away from dangerous individuals by expanding criminal background checks to close online purchase and gun show loopholes. This event was a part of the larger National Day of Action, where over 30 events were held in communities across the nation. Rep. John Conyers said: “Whether mass shootings or killings on our streets, there are too many tragedies and too many families shattered by gun violence. I am pleased to join my Congressional colleagues today in a critical discussion about gun violence prevention, to engage with our community about what is happening on this issue and what more we can do here and in Washington to make us all safer.” Rep. Debbie Dingell said: "As we continue to have this discussion, it is imperative that we protect Second Amendment rights while working to stop the violence that is happening in too many of our communities. Today we came together as Michiganders, as people of faith, as survivors of abuse, as members of law enforcement, as mothers, fathers, brothers, and sisters to say let us take some simple steps to keep guns out of the hands of those who should not have them - terrorists, domestic abusers and those with serious mental illness. We can make our communities safer while respecting the rights of responsible, law-abiding citizens. We can and should do both." Rep. Dan Kildee said: “Michiganders have made it clear that they want Congress to do its job and act to prevent suspected terrorists from getting deadly weapons. For the vast majority of Americans, this is a no-brainer – if you are too dangerous to fly on a plane, you are too dangerous to own a gun. A majority of Americans, including the majority of law-abiding gun owners, also agree that we must close dangerous loopholes that allow criminals to buy a weapon at a gun show or online without a background check. Congress can – and must – act on these commonsense gun safety measures to protect the American people.” Rep. Brenda Lawrence said: “This is a call to action! National Day of Action gives us the opportunity to continue the conversation here in Michigan. To hear from our communities regarding their frustration with gun violence in our communities. Our historic, sit-in on the Floor of the House of Representatives last week has energized our constituencies. They are tired of moments of silence, they are ready for action and Congress must step up and lead against the devastation of gun violence in this country.” Rep. Sander Levin said: “We’ve come to a turning point – our voices are united in telling Republicans moments of silence cannot replace the need for times of action. In a democracy there is a need for leadership from above and leadership from the grassroots. We are here to show that the public cares and Congress must lead in taking action.” Former Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, gun violence victim and co-founder of the gun violence prevention organization Americans for Responsible Solutions said: “Just one week after the historic sit-in on the House floor, tomorrow leaders in Congress will hold yet another historic event to urge our elected officials in the U.S. House of Representatives to hold a vote on bipartisan legislation that protects the rights of law-abiding Americans, keeps guns out of the wrong hands, and saves lives. I want to thank Congressman Conyers, Congresswoman Dingell, Congressman Kildee, Congresswoman Lawrence, and Congressman Levin for helping lead the fight against our nation’s gun violence crisis. Speaking is difficult for me. But I haven't been silenced. And neither should the American people. Their Representatives must vote to make our communities safer.” ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after House Republicans unveiled their “Better Way” messaging platform on tax reform: “The Republican blueprint on tax reform is long on rhetoric and short on important details. But its general direction is clear: huge, unpaid for tax cuts mostly directed to the wealthy. Everyday Americans will ultimately get stuck with the bill. “The Republican blueprint would reduce individual tax rates and dramatically reduce taxes on wealthy individuals. Reduced rates at upper incomes coupled with generous exclusions for capital gains income significantly decrease the tax burden on the wealthiest households, with no relief for hardworking American families. The blueprint would first cut individual rates at the top significantly, reducing the top rate to 33 percent. On top of that rate cut, the Republican blueprint favors wealth over work by providing a massive 50 percent deduction for an expanded definition of investment income – a huge tax cut on capital gains, dividends, and interest income—effectively lowering the top rate on this income to 16.5 percent. Even though these new rates create a greater incentive for wealthy fund managers to shift their income from ordinary to capital gains income, there is no mention in the blueprint of closing the egregious carried interest loophole. “For the wealthy, the Republican blueprint also eliminates the estate tax, which would provide a $269 billion tax cut to the wealthiest 5,500 estates in this country. Less than 0.15 percent of Americans owe any estate tax under the current system, and repeal of the estate tax would represent an average $4 million tax cut to the wealthiest Americans. “In contrast, for hardworking Americans, the Republican blueprint increases the risk of them shouldering the burden of these significant tax cuts for the wealthy. The blueprint converts the personal exemption for dependents into a nonrefundable $500 credit and eliminates the refundable portion of the child tax credit for taxpayers without a Social Security Number – further hurting working Americans at the lower end of the income scale. The Republican blueprint also effectively eliminates all itemized deductions (such as the state and local tax deduction and deduction for real estate taxes paid), including the ones it purports to retain (deductions for mortgage interest and charitable giving). “On the business side, the Republican blueprint would slash the domestic corporate income tax rate to 20%, allow for immediate expensing for investments, and reduce the small business income tax rate to 25%. It would also shift the current system to a territorial system of taxing foreign income of U.S. multinationals without any word on how the U.S. would protect itself against base erosion. Layered on top of the rate reduction and a move to a territorial system is an adoption of ‘a destination-basis tax system,’ which would be achieved by providing for border adjustments exempting exports and taxing imports. Indeed, what the Republicans have included here is a key feature of a VAT, except that the blueprint goes through pains to insist such proposal is not a VAT. Instead, they refer to it as a shift to a consumption-based tax system, with no detail of what that consumption-based tax system looks like, and no detail of how that system would impact consumers and businesses. “It is extremely unclear how the provisions in the Republican blueprint work together in any manner of fiscal responsibility. The blueprint relies heavily on dynamic scoring to ‘achieve revenue-neutrality in part by including the positive revenue effects from the economic growth that would result from a simpler, more pro-growth tax code.’ Dynamic scoring has proven to be extremely unreliable and is used by Republicans to cover up their fiscal irresponsibility. Additionally, it appears that the provisions that were intentionally not extended in the PATH Act are assumed to have been permanently extended in the baseline, resulting in approximately $400 billion in additional revenue in the baseline. “This Republican plan is a ‘better way’ for the wealthiest among us, but it is the wrong way for everyday Americans.” ###
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) and Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Xavier Becerra (D-CA) today responded to the release of the 2016 Medicare Trustees Report and 2016 Social Security Trustees Report: Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Levin: “The Medicare Trustees Report makes clear that Medicare is on strong financial footing. Thanks to the role the ACA has played in strengthening Medicare, spending on health care continues at historically low rates. The report also illustrates an issue which seniors know all too well, which is high prescription drug prices. Congress should reject Republican efforts to dismantle Medicare by raising the eligibility age or privatizing the program. “The Social Security Trustees Report reinforced the importance of this critical program for seniors, Americans with disabilities, and their families. Congress must address the long-term shortfall Social Security faces so beneficiaries today and in the future can continue to receive the benefits they have earned through hard work. Today, most employees no longer have traditional pensions through their jobs, and many Americans are unable to save enough on their own for a dignified retirement. That is why it is more important than ever to oppose Republican efforts to cut Social Security benefits. Instead, we should expand Social Security to meet the realities and needs of today.” Health Subcommittee Ranking Member McDermott: “Today’s Medicare Trustees Report provides further evidence that the Affordable Care Act has successfully extended the solvency of the hospital trust fund by more than a decade. Health costs continue to grow slowly and the Medicare program will remain on sound financial footing for years to come. However, there is still more work to do as we implement MACRA and transition toward a system that rewards value and efficiency in health care. In addition, the report raises serious concerns about the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs, which contributed to an increase in Part D spending last year that was nearly 50 percent higher than GDP growth. This should be a wakeup call to Congress that it’s time to get serious about prescription drug prices and work to ensure the long-term sustainability of the health care system.” Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Becerra: “Social Security is the foundation of retirement security for working families and should not be subjected to scare tactics that make it seem ‘broken.’ Social Security currently has a surplus of $2.8 trillion in its Trust Fund. Just last year we heard claims that Social Security would have to cut benefits for disabled workers by 20 percent. Democrats fought to prevent these harmful cuts, proving that Social Security could deliver the benefits Americans had earned.” ###
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) today released the following statement ahead of House Republicans unveiling their “Better Way” messaging platform on health care: “For six years, Republicans have been threatening to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. They’ve promised more than 35 times to deliver a legislative replacement to the health care law. “The reason that Republicans haven’t been able to produce an alternative is that the Affordable Care Act has provided affordable, reliable health coverage for millions and millions of Americans, and introduced new protections so that no matter your gender, your age, your income, whether you’re an American with a disability, whether you have a pre-existing condition – you’re covered. Today, the number of Americans without health insurance is the lowest it’s ever been. “Instead, we’ve only seen proposals to repeal the law, which would take health insurance away from more than 24 million Americans. We’ve seen proposals that would harm seniors and low-income Americans by significantly cutting Medicaid and Medicare. We’ve seen proposals that would roll-back consumer protections that have meant women aren’t charged more than men for the same coverage. We’ve seen proposals that would increase health care costs for hard-working American families. “What we expect from the latest Republican blueprint is more of the same – recycled proposals that would take health care away from millions of Americans without any real trace of an alternative.” ###
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on the responses in the U.S. House and Senate to the Orlando massacre: “An intensive, emotional 15 hour filibuster by Senate Democrats has forced Republicans to allow votes in the Senate on two commonsense gun safety amendments – preventing individuals who have appeared on the government’s terrorism watch list from buying guns and expanding background checks to close the gun show and online loopholes. Unfortunately, on the House side, the response today is to vote on three bills that we have already passed. I hope in the next days we will challenge ourselves to have a comprehensive response that includes gun safety, continued vigilance against terrorism, action to protect the LGBT community from discrimination, and an understanding that hate driven violence threatens all of us.” ###
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on the passing of former Detroit Red Wings player and hockey legend Gordie Howe: “Like for so many, for my brother Carl and me, Gordie Howe was one of our greatest heroes growing up. As kids we enjoyed often taking a bus and a street car to then climb up the many stairs into the balcony of the Olympia to see Gordie’s magic. I can still remember, as clearly as yesterday, some of his goals that only Gordie Howe could have accomplished.” ###
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) today released the following statement after House Republicans unveiled their “Better Way” messaging proposal on poverty and welfare: “Unfortunately, this ‘new’ Republican blueprint on poverty is a collection of empty gestures. By including little detail about how they would actually support families struggling with poverty, the Republicans have shown once again that their primary focus is to cut programs that work. “One of the few positive proposals from Speaker Ryan’s previous poverty plan – expanding EITC – isn’t even included. “Block grants – or ‘giving states more flexibility,’ as the Republican plan refers to them – are not new; they are just an old way to reduce accountability and facilitate cuts to health care, food assistance, and housing for struggling families. “And under the guise of promoting work through work requirements, the Republican proposal would cut off vital help to unemployed Americans. If Republicans really want to support work, they should reverse their proposed cuts in job training, make college more affordable, stop trying to cut child care, and allow a vote to increase the minimum wage. Furthermore, with the states currently spending an average of a mere eight percent of their Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) funding on work activities, Republicans should be joining us to reform TANF to make it a true pathway into the middle class by accessing education, training and child care essential to the ability of working mothers to obtain and keep good jobs. “Unlike the Republican proposal, Democrats have put forward real policies to reduce poverty and increase opportunities for families living in and facing poverty. “This proposal isn’t a better way, it’s the wrong way. It’s a dead-end for American families struggling with poverty.” ###
06.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter today, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-Mich.) outlined a number of concerns regarding the U.S.-China economic relationship and called on the Obama Administration to push for meaningful reforms that will benefit American companies, farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, workers, and consumers during the eighth session of the U.S.-China Strategic & Economic Dialogue (S&ED). The text of the letter is below and a final signed copy is available here. June 3, 2016 The Honorable Jacob Lew Secretary of the Treasury U.S. Department of Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20520 The Honorable Penny Pritzker Secretary of Commerce Herbert Clark Hoover Building 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20230 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 The Honorable Michael Froman United States Trade Representative Office of the United States Trade Representative 200 17th Street, NW 20508 Washington, D.C. 20508 Dear Secretaries Lew, Kerry, Pritzker, and Ambassador Froman: The eighth session of the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue (S&ED) occurs at a time of increasingly troubling developments in China’s economic policies. China’s persistence in following old models of investment-led growth are leading to severe shocks in the global marketplace. At the same time, the new policies that China is unveiling appear to undermine fair and open competition in the Chinese market. This S&ED is, therefore, a critical opportunity to address the barriers and distortions that endanger the well-being of the U.S.-China economic relationship and the international economy. China continues to engage in cross-cutting policies that raise doubts about whether China will move towards a market-based economy able to foster sustainable growth. State-owned enterprises (SOEs) remain dominant in China’s economy, largely insulated by government policies from the need to respond to market realities. China’s reliance on and promotion of investment-led growth has resulted in broad distortions to markets around the world. We are particularly concerned by global overcapacities in steel, aluminum, solar, and other commodities, which have impacted U.S. producers, consumers, workers, and suppliers in these industries. Global overcapacities largely result from China’s over-investment in its production capacities, which stems from subsidies and other market-distorting measures. For example, global steelmaking capacity has more than doubled between 2000 and 2014, and that increase has occurred principally in China. While we continue to urge the Administration to address global overcapacity in multilateral and bilateral fora with U.S. trading partners, coupled with effective trade enforcement in the United States, the S&ED is an opportunity for direct dialogue with China on this serious issue. We also urge you to use these meetings to reiterate the importance of China’s meaningful engagement on the establishment of new global disciplines on export credit guarantees and compliance with the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. Additionally, as highlighted by the Department of the Treasury’s recent Report to Congress on Foreign Exchange Polices of Major Trading Partners, China’s currency and exchange rate policies remain problematic. Instead of following through on its asserted desire to move towards a market-determined exchange rate, China has continued to let the government play a decisive role in determining the value of the RMB. This practice cannot continue. Moreover, amid persistent doubts about the accuracy of China’s economic data, China must provide more and better data on its interventions into foreign exchange markets. We also note the likelihood that China will raise the subject of its non-market economy status in U.S. trade remedy cases. However, the breadth and depth of problems faced by U.S. firms seeking to do business with and in China is a result, in large part, of China’s failure to pursue market-oriented policies in favor of continued and broad-based government intervention throughout its economy. These interventions have a detrimental impact on U.S. workers and firms operating in China as well as the United States. As such, the way for China to achieve market economy status would be for China to undertake the reforms necessary to transition to a market economy, in which prices for Chinese goods and services are determined by market forces. In addition to these cross-cutting policies, China maintains a wide range of specific barriers to U.S. trade and investment. China’s reliance on localization polices appears to be deepening in concerning ways. In particular, China has expanded its usage of what it unjustifiably claims to be national security concerns to impose localization requirements on information and communications technology (ICT) products and to force disclosure of intellectual property (IP) as a condition of access to the Chinese market by foreign ICT providers. China’s recent calls for what it terms “cyber sovereignty” also portend similarly negative impacts on the development of and access to the digital economy. These policies would appear to exacerbate the effects of China’s internet censorship regime, which contributes to discriminatory treatment of American providers of digital goods and services and impediments to the free flow of data. In addition, China continues to pursue policies that would compromise the integrity of U.S. technology companies’ products and services, requiring backdoors to be installed in products sold in China and compliance with invasive audits. We also remain concerned that China continues to use anti-monopoly law enforcement as a tool of industrial policy. We urge you to use this S&ED to seek specific commitments from China to apply its competition law on the basis of objectives that relate only to consumer welfare and in a manner respecting procedural fairness, transparency, and non-discrimination. China’s IP environment remains seriously deficient for the protection of legitimate right holders and the encouragement of innovation. China continues routinely to deny market access and other benefits to foreign firms unless they agree to license IP to a Chinese party or meet other conditions. Trade secrets theft in China is a persistent and growing problem for U.S. companies in China, and China’s trade secrets laws and enforcement regime have proven insufficient. Often, the theft of proprietary and sensitive assets results from Chinese government-sanctioned cyber-attacks on U.S. companies, which frequently are economically motivated. We understand that China is reforming its current trade secrets laws, and the importance of those reforms should be emphasized during the S&ED. The overwhelming majority of counterfeit goods entering the United States originate in China, exposing U.S. consumers to dangerous and inferior products and harming legitimate U.S. producers and their employees. China remains the greatest infringer of intellectual property rights (IPR) of U.S. producers of audiovisual content. China’s enforcement against counterfeit goods and online infringement of IPR remains grossly inadequate. Additionally, China’s trademark registration system continues to be deliberately difficult for legitimate right holders to navigate. There are also reports of continued unjustified denials of patent applications and invalidations of existing patents, and the Chinese Food and Drug Administration reportedly is considering a change in policy that would condition regulatory approval of pharmaceutical products on the post-market pricing of drugs. U.S. agricultural exports to China continue to face significant unwarranted, non-scientific regulatory barriers. In particular, despite positive commitments made by China during President Xi’s visit to Washington last year, approval of innovative U.S. biotechnology products remains slow, irregular, and unpredictable. This situation has caused serious price disruptions in the international market for U.S. agricultural products and harm to U.S. farmers. China should be held to its commitments to reform its regulatory processes. We would welcome China’s timely approval of the numerous applications currently pending as an intermediate step to a regularized system of approvals. While we have highlighted several pressing concerns in the U.S.-China economic relationship, these issues do not constitute an exhaustive list of the challenges faced by U.S. businesses, workers, and consumers seeking to trade with and invest in China. We also emphasize the importance of addressing these issues in other fora, particularly the ongoing bilateral investment treaty negotiations. In addition, we expect full, timely implementation of the expansion of the Information Technology Agreement, and greater ambition and accelerated engagement in negotiations for an environmental goods agreement. China still has not made a serious offer in its long-overdue accession to the WTO Government Procurement Agreement. We also note our deep and abiding concerns with the lack of transparency and predictability in China’s regulatory and rule-making processes and the reports of retaliation and intimidation directed at U.S. and foreign companies that seek to exercise their rights in China’s market. These are systemic matters that affect every single issue on the U.S.-China economic agenda. There are important, difficult reforms and course corrections that China must undertake in order to make it possible for the U.S.-China economic relationship – and the global economy – to achieve their full potentials. We urge you to impress upon China the enormous stakes at issue in our bilateral relationship and partnership, on behalf of all the U.S. companies, farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, workers, and consumers that rely on the benefits of that relationship. ###
05.25.2016	First Time the Ways and Means Committee Has Used Deposition Authority WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the full transcript of a Committee deposition of a former Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee regarding cost-sharing reduction payments in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) following a vote by the Committee to release the transcript. The deposition was unprecedented and covered the same subject of an ongoing House Republican lawsuit against the Administration. What the Republicans had hoped to find in their deposition was a manipulative political process relating to the funding of the cost-sharing reduction payments. But instead what they found was that David Fisher believed Commissioner Koskinen “gave me plenty of time to air my concerns” and “made the choice that I bet you 99 out of 100 people would have made.” Mr. Fisher said that there was “free and open discussion, as Commissioner Koskinen really always does in his management approach,” adding that Commissioner Koskinen “is not only a phenomenal leader but one of the best managers we've ever had in government.” House Republicans have had more than 60 votes on the House Floor to repeal or undermine the ACA. This so-called investigation on the cost-sharing program continues House Republicans’ partisan attacks on the ACA, which has provided 20 million Americans with affordable health insurance and offered millions more protections against discrimination for pre-existing conditions, age, and gender. Read the full transcript here. Highlights from the Ways and Means Committee deposition of former IRS employee David Fisher: Mr. Fisher: So I'm here under subpoena. It would have been far preferable to me for the executive branch and legislative branch to resolve this dispute independently and not sort of put me in the middle of being the arbiter of what to say or what questions to answer and what not to answer. [Pages 14-15] ********** Mr. McDermott asked Mr. Fisher about the number of meetings that he’s been in where there was a disagreement within the Department about how a particular issue should be resolved or administered. The Witness. They're not that unusual. This was perhaps a more â€‘â€‘ probably a stronger disagreement than is typical, but disagreements certainly occur all the time in the course of, you know, meetings where all sides get aired on their perspectives. I'm trying to think through the case at the IRS with Commissioner Koskinen. You know, oftentimes, it's certainly desirable to resolve those disputes before you get to the agency head, if possible, amongst other senior colleagues. But I think part of the transparency drive that the Commissioner was trying to institute with an enterprise risk management program was to make sure that if there was disagreement or risks that had been identified that were not being resolved and he needed to be part of the resolution, then he wanted them brought to him. That's what he felt was his responsibility as the agency head. [Pages 67-68] ********** Mr. Fisher was asked by Ms. Neely about a meeting he attended with Commissioner Koskinen during the week of January 13th. Q Do you recall â€‘â€‘ or could you explain what happened in the course of that meeting? A So the Commissioner gathered together all of the people who had attended the meeting at OMB. There were some additional attendees that would typically attend a seniorâ€‘leader meeting with the Commissioner â€‘â€‘ as I recall, his chief of staff, his deputy chief of staff, the Deputy Commissioner for Services and Enforcement â€‘â€‘ Q Who was that? A John Dalrymple was there. There may have been a couple of others. But it was sort of the typical senior folks that you would expect to be with the Commissioner when a meeting of some import was taking place. And it was a free and open discussion, as Commissioner Koskinen really always does in his management approach. He is not only a phenomenal leader but one of the best managers we've ever had in government. And his advocacy for transparency of opinions was, frankly, a major support component of our enterprise risk management program. And he not only, you know, talked the talk, he walked the walk. And his management style was to make sure, if a decision needed to be made and he needed to be in the loop, we would hold those meetings, and we always have a free and open exchange. In this case, there were really just a couple of perspectives. He was informed of â€‘â€‘ well, two things. There was a memo that was circulated at that meeting that you shared with me last week in the transcribed interview that showed â€‘â€‘ I believe it was a memo from Mark Mazur to Secretary Lew that Secretary Lew had signed and initialed "Approve" that was more of the directive kind of note that Treasury had concluded that â€‘â€‘ now it was Treasury's counsel â€‘â€‘ had concluded that these payments were appropriate. I recall that memo. We discussed that briefly. And that was provided â€‘â€‘ I don't remember who brought that memo. It was either through the Chief of Staff or Chief Counsel â€‘â€‘ was brought to the group, and the Commissioner became aware of that. He had also been informed that the Justice Department had seen the memo and had been approving of it, obviously was aware of OMB's position. This is, again, mostly through the General Counsel or Chief Counsel's communication to the Commissioner. And so there was a very strong consensus of the people who had been in the loop on this at, you know, fairly senior positions in government that these payments were appropriate. I was in the dissent. I think I was wearing two hats in that perspective. As the Chief Risk Officer, I felt there was some risk to making these payments with respect to the appropriations law and the Antideficiency Act, recognizing that there were other opinions on the other side. I expressed that I felt that the memo that we read was not compelling to me to counter my concerns about the Appropriations Act issues related to the payment, as I read the law over and over again to try to convince myself, you know, what's the appropriate reading of this, recognizing that many others have now come to a different conclusion. The Commissioner gave me plenty of time to air my concerns. And, in the end, he made the decision that I actually would expect him to make. It was a decision that I disagreed with. But when a senior leader, an agency head, has brought his senior advisers together, he is given a lot of information â€‘â€‘ there was nothing held back. He had, I think, a presentation that did appear to him to be compelling, that these payments out of the permanent appropriation were appropriate, again, with multiple components within the executive branch concurring that that's the appropriate thing to do, including the memo that we had in hand from the leadership at the Treasury Department. He listened to my concerns and thanked me, actually, in the meeting for expressing those concerns but felt the appropriate course was to go forward and make the payments, you know, per the strong majority of folks who believed that they were appropriate. [Pages 37-40] ********** Mr. Roskam asked Mr. Fisher if he recalls other people raising objections in the meeting with Commissioner Koskinen. The Witness. I would say Mr. Kane and/or Mr. Canady â€‘â€‘ so Mr. Canady being the CFO, Mr. Kane being the Deputy CFO â€‘â€‘ I would say voiced some concern; I wouldn't say "objections." My sense was that they were not necessarily completely convinced that, from an appropriations standpoint and an accounting standpoint, this was totally authorized, but they were not objections. Mine was more the stronger dissent. Mr. Roskam. Were there voices that were stronger than yours or yours was the strongest in dissent? The Witness. On the dissent side, I would say mine was the strongest. [Pages 43-45] ********** Ms. Neely asked Mr. Fisher about when Mr. Kane, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer at the IRS, raised concerns related to sequestration and the funding of the CSR subsidies. Q So, Mr. Fisher, turning back to the timeline, in that late fall/December time period of 2013, when Mr. Kane first came to you, he raised sequester concerns. Had he also identified this appropriation concern that you're talking about now, or did that come up in the course of those conversations at some other point? A I don't recall that being expressed at the outset. Because, again, at the outset, the question was sequester. Q Right. A Which is complicated enough from an accounting standpoint. Especially with all the different kinds of accounts and outlays that the IRS has, getting that right, you know, takes some real thought and effort and sometimes even parsing of language just to make sure what accounts are affected or not. Because, in general, most accounts were affected, but there were exceptions, and the IRS had some of those exceptions. And so this was the natural course of accountants doing what they are supposed to do. That was initially all we really focused on. As it became clearer that that was not going to be an expected issue because of the migration â€‘â€‘ well, not migration â€‘â€‘ the path to use the permanent appropriation, which is not subject to sequester, the sequester issue sort of went off the table. And that's when this subsequent question of whether or not an appropriation has been made to use the permanent account specific to costâ€‘sharing reduction payments â€‘â€‘ that was the question. And there was concern raised from the accounting folks. I raised concern from a risk standpoint. And then we engaged with the broader community at OMB. We got guidance from Treasury, Justice Department involved, IRS's counsel that ultimately concluded that the payments were appropriate. And, as I said previously, given the strong consensus to support that perspective that was presented to the Commissioner, I was certainly not surprised that he supported that with this level of senior advice given to him as, you know, what should we go do. He made the choice that I bet you 99 out of 100 people would have made. It's just one that I happen to disagree with in terms of my understanding of both appropriation law and my reading of the statute. Q When did â€‘â€‘ A And I expressed that. And, again, I was not in the final determination, and my position did not carry the final say, and I was okay with that. [Pages 56-58] ********** The full transcript can be found here. ###
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukraine Caucus co-chairs Sander Levin (D-MI), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and caucus members Ryan Costello (R-PA), Rosa DeLauro(D-CT), Robert Dold (R-IL), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Nita Lowey (D-NY) Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Tim Murphy (R-PA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Dave Reichert (R- WA), and Adam Smith (D-WA) today released the following statement on the release of Ukrainian Member of Parliament and Fighter Pilot Nadiya Savchenko: “We welcome the news of the release of Nadiya Savchenko. Our thoughts are also with her family and loved ones. Throughout her imprisonment and trial, Savchenko has come to represent the spirit of an independent Ukraine, free from interference and eager to embrace the will of its own people. Her case touched communities from across the globe who united to advocate for her release. “We continue to condemn Russia’s handling of Savchenko’s capture, trial, and sentencing. Russian authorities repeatedly delayed trial and hearing dates, moved her trial, and restricted access both to witnesses and the independent press. Once again, we call on Russian authorities to respect the rule of law and release all those held unlawfully in Russian custody.” ###
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A group of 15 House Democrats today sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Michael Froman urging the Administration to clarify its position on compulsory licensing for generic medicines in Colombia. The letter was led by Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), and also signed by Reps. Jim McGovern (D-MA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Peter Welch (D-VT), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), John Lewis (D-GA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), David E. Price (D-NC), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), and Sam Farr (D-CA). “As you know, the issuance of compulsory licenses is permissible under U.S. trade agreements and the WTO Agreement…We therefore find it deeply troubling that U.S. officials may not be respecting the Doha Declaration,” the Members wrote. “There are growing concerns about the very high and increasing costs of pharmaceuticals in the United States and in other nations. And the annual price of this medicine in Colombia is almost twice as much as the average annual income per person in Colombia. As policymakers struggle to address this issue, we should not seek to limit the existing, agreed upon flexibilities public health authorities have to address these concerns. We ask that you clarify the position the Administration has taken in meetings with Colombian officials on this important issue as soon as possible.” Read the full letter here. ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after House Republicans unveiled a bill that would cut the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) budget by $236 million. Republicans have already cut the IRS’s budget by close to $1 billion from 2010-2015. “The House Republicans’ newly proposed IRS budget cut shows that they still don’t grasp the consequences of their actions. Cuts made by Republicans to the IRS’s budget since 2010 have resulted in terrible customer service, outdated technology, and the lowest level of audits in a decade. When Congress last year increased the IRS’s budget for customer service, not surprisingly, customer service improved. We should restore the IRS’s funding, not continue to cut it. The bill would also stop the IRS from implementing the Affordable Care Act – a move that would take health insurance away from more than 20 million Americans. Republicans must put an end to these attacks on the IRS for political gain, and realize that their proposals have real consequences for hardworking Americans.” ###
05.24.2016	(Remarks as delivered) The first bill before us – the Helping Hospitals Improve Patient Care Act – makes some changes to how hospitals are reimbursed under Medicare. The major pieces are important technical fixes to correct issues from the budget bill passed late last year. The budget bill passed by the House in November fixed a problem where hospitals were purchasing off-campus facilities and using them as ‘Hospital Outpatient Departments’ to bill Medicare at the higher rate. But the budget bill didn’t include an exception for facilities that were already under development – where hospitals had already made significant investments but weren’t yet up and running. This bill brings fairness to those hospitals. Almost all of the other provisions in the bill have also previously passed this Committee with bipartisan support. Mr. McDermott has worked to improve Medicare beneficiary notification. I believe that this change will improve the information beneficiaries get when they become Medicare eligible. On the TANF bills before us, an opening was already given for the first bill when it came up during our previous markup. And my colleague, Mr. Doggett, will deliver brief remarks on the second bill. Regarding the deposition transcript – I want to be clear that this is just another effort by the Majority to try to undermine the Affordable Care Act. More than 20 million Americans have health coverage today that didn’t previously thanks to the health reform law, yet the Republicans are doing everything in their power to take that away. The deposition covered the same subject matter as a lawsuit brought against the Administration by the House Majority. In that lawsuit, the attorneys on both sides have stipulated to the facts – so there is no disagreement as to the facts upon which the case will proceed in court. This use of this Committee’s deposition authority is unprecedented. And the simple fact that the deposition was done without any consultation with the Democrats before issuing the subpoena shows that the Majority’s primary purpose is political. Still, the Administration has voluntarily made available 10 former and current employees for questioning regarding this so-called investigation. The Majority is trying to have it both ways. They file a lawsuit, they stipulate to the facts, and now the court will decide. In the meanwhile, they undertake a fishing expedition, the main purpose of which, as I said earlier, is to try to undermine the Affordable Care Act after voting more than 60 times on the House Floor. ###
05.24.2016	(Remarks as delivered) Mr. Chairman, reducing poverty is so vital a pursuit that the true test is action, not words – especially when the action unmasks the rhetoric. There is a dramatic disconnect between the worthy goals of poverty reduction and the agenda Republicans have continually pursued in this and recent Congresses. Eliminating food assistance for 13 million Americans, as suggested by the latest Republican budget, will not reduce poverty and hardship, it will increase it. Cutting child care and other services funded by the Social Services Block Grant, which Republicans voted earlier this year to eliminate, will not increase opportunity, it will deny it to up to the 30 million Americans who now depend on this program. Jeopardizing health care coverage for over 20 million Americans by constantly attempting to repeal heath reform will not help struggling families, it will hurt them. Raising taxes on one and half million working families by eliminating their refundable tax credit as marked up by the Committee will not lift families up, it will push them down. Cutting state funding for job training and placement will not help workers get good jobs, it will make it harder for them to stay competitive. And slashing support for higher education, including Pell Grants, as required under the Republican budget, will not help people climb the economic ladder, it will rip that ladder away. Our Republican colleagues seem to mistake cutting poverty programs with cutting poverty. They willfully ignore analyses that show our income security programs reduce poverty by over 40 percent. Instead, the Republicans can accept some immediate steps proposed by Democrats – which Republicans have previously blocked – to support work, promote opportunity and reduce poverty: Expand access to quality child care so that parents can go to work without worrying about the well-being of their children. Improve pathways to education and training so that Americans can gain the skills needed to climb into the middle class. Reform the parts of our tax code that continue to tax some working Americans deeper into poverty (childless workers with low wages). Strengthen the TANF program so it does a better job of supporting families and rewarding work, instead of being unduly used for other unrelated purposes. Ensure equal pay for women, who now earn an average of 78 cents on the dollar compared to men doing the same job. And increase the minimum wage, which study after study has shown will reduce poverty. The American people are yearning for real action on the challenges facing our nation, rather than glossy reports. And no one is more deserving of such a debate than the 47 million Americans who now struggle in poverty. ###
05.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after CF Industries Holdings Inc. announced that it no longer plans to pursue an inversion by merging with Netherlands-based OCI NV, as a direct result of the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s recent actions to limit corporate tax inversions. Last September, in the wake of CF Industries Holding’s announcement of a planned inversion, Rep. Levin joined House and Senate Democrats in urging Treasury Secretary Lew to publish an annual list of inverted companies and use executive authority to crack down on tax avoidance schemes. “Today’s announcement from CF Industries shows that Treasury’s actions are already having their intended effect of protecting the U.S. tax base and stopping corporate tax inversions. While the regulations appear to be deterring some companies, only Congress can fully close this loophole. Democrats will keep pushing to make sure U.S. companies can’t simply change their addresses on paper to avoid paying their fair share of taxes.” ###
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement after the International Trade Commission (ITC) released a Congressionally-mandated report on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement’s projected impact on the U.S. economy: “My initial review of the ITC report only confirms my position that I cannot support TPP as negotiated. “It is deeply troubling to read that overall U.S. manufacturing employment is expected to decline as a result of the agreement, and that the overall U.S. trade deficit is expected to worsen too, including in the auto and auto parts industry. And the ITC appears to confirm my concern that the weak automotive rules of origin in the agreement will result in lost auto parts jobs in the United States. “The economic gains the ITC expects from TPP are insignificant, estimating that the U.S. GDP will increase just 0.15 percent by the year 2032, and employment will increase by just 0.07 percent by that time. And even these figures are based on a traditional model which makes some changes but remains flawed. The figures are also based on an optimistic assumption that our trading partners will open their markets to our exports, rather than simply replacing their existing tariff barriers with new non-tariff barriers, even though we have repeatedly seen that happen in the past. “Additionally, a number of important pieces appear to be lacking in the report. For example, the report does not appear to analyze in any depth how TPP would impact income and wealth inequality in the United States. Nor does it address the costs associated with workers losing their jobs or factories leaving communities as a result of the agreement. For example, it includes no more than a footnote to a recent groundbreaking study that finds that it may take a decade for workers who lose their jobs due to imports to find new employment with comparable wages. Those “short-term” transition costs are largely ignored in this report. “And, whereas the ITC’s estimates relate almost exclusively to the tariff provisions of the agreement, almost all of the concerns expressed by a wide range of members of Congress and stakeholders relate to the many non-tariff provisions of the agreement. The report provides no new insight into, for example, whether the labor obligations will be fully implemented by our trading partners, or how implementation or a lack thereof would impact employment in the United States; and whether the benefits of tariff liberalization will be offset by things like currency manipulation, which is essentially not addressed in the agreement. And yet those are some of the most real and pressing economic questions about the agreement.” In January, Rep. Levin testified at an ITC hearing on the potential economic impact of TPP, urging the Commission to consider a number of key points when developing its report. ###
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) introduced a resolution “condemning and censuring” Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen: “Instead of taking real action on critical issues that involve the security and wellbeing of Americans – like fully funding the Zika prevention efforts, or providing our troops with adequate resources to keep us safe, or helping the people of Flint regain access to safe drinking water, or considering a budget that meets the needs of the American people – House Republicans are busy engaging in political witch hunts. The Benghazi Committee, the Select Committee to attack women’s health, and now further personal attacks on the IRS Commissioner – these are all attempts to distract the American people from the fact that Republicans aren’t doing their job. Republicans need to stop the political madness and get serious about doing the hard work of legislating.” ###
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today introduced the Protecting the U.S. Corporate Tax Base Act of 2016, a bill that would limit two tax loopholes commonly used by foreign-controlled U.S. multinational groups, like those formed through tax inversions and other foreign acquisitions. This bill is the third in a series aimed at curbing corporate tax loopholes. To read a summary of the bill, click here. To read the bill text, click here. “Americans believe that the tax code is rigged against them, and when companies can use complicated loopholes to avoid paying their fair share of taxes, they’re not wrong,” said Rep. Levin. “By refusing to act to stop inversions and other tax avoidance maneuvers, Republicans in Congress are essentially saying that it’s okay for these companies to erode the tax base while forcing ordinary Americans to foot the bill. Congress must act immediately to close these outrageous loopholes and protect the U.S. tax base before it is completely eroded.” The first loophole – known as “hopscotching” – allows a foreign parent company or foreign affiliate to use, tax-free, overseas earnings of foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies – known as controlled foreign corporations (CFCs). The second loophole – known as “de-controlling” – enables foreign-controlled U.S. multinational groups to avoid U.S. taxes on the deferred earnings of CFCs by reducing the U.S. ownership of CFCs just below the level that subjects the foreign subsidiaries to U.S. taxation. Treasury issued temporary regulations in April to prevent “hopscotching” by inverted companies. The “hopscotching” provision in the Protecting the U.S. Corporate Tax Base Act of 2016 is broader and would apply to U.S. companies that have inverted, as well as to U.S. multinational companies that have been acquired by foreign companies. The “de-controlling” provision was included in President Obama’s FY16 and FY17 budget proposals. Read more about corporate tax inversions and previous bills introduced by Democrats in the House here. ###
05.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after the AFL-CIO and four Colombian unions filed a petition alleging that Colombia is not satisfying its labor obligations under the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement: “After five years, Colombia is not implementing its obligations under the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement, including provisions spelled out in the Labor Action Plan. Colombia does not have in place an adequate structure – through its laws, regulations, or practices – to ensure that the rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining are upheld. “The rights of workers are being thwarted through indirect employment, preventing workers from exercising their labor rights through the use of instrumentalities to avoid direct employment protections with worker rights under law. That was clear during my trips to Colombia during the negotiations. As a result, the Labor Action Plan – which specifically called for Colombia to ‘prohibit the misuse of cooperatives or any other kind of relationship that affects labor rights’ – is being violated as cooperatives have been replaced with other forms of indirect employment, leaving the multitude of workers basically in the same position as before the Labor Action Plan. “Impunity for violations of worker rights remains rampant. Threats against labor leaders continue in large numbers and there have been no convictions since 2011. This is not surprising since the Prosecutor General told me when I was last in Colombia that he was focused on still another restructuring of the office, rather than on specific cases. There have been few convictions of the 130 labor-related homicides since 2011. “Finally, as indicated in today’s Petition filed by the AFL-CIO and four Colombian unions, the system of fines for violations of worker rights remains deeply flawed. Most fines remain uncollected. “Agreements must be tested by their language and by the realities on the ground. Nothing else will suffice.” The Congressional Colombia Monitoring Group will be meeting tomorrow with the AFL-CIO, Colombian union representatives, and Colombian labor experts to discuss the Petition. ###
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) submitted a comment to the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) in opposition to its decision to tentatively approve permanent air service for Norwegian Air International (NAI) to the United States. NAI is a Norwegian company that registered a subsidiary in Ireland, a move that enabled the company to avoid Norwegian labor standards. Despite discretion under U.S. law and language in the U.S.-EU Open Skies agreement – which asserts that the agreement is not intended to undermine labor standards – DOT issued a tentative decision last month granting NAI’s application. “Put simply, NAI is circumventing its home country’s labor laws in order to hire its crews using cheaper foreign contracts,” wrote Rep. Levin. “On this issue and other international economic issues like it, it is incumbent upon the U.S. government to fully use the tools it has available to support U.S. workers and U.S. competitiveness… I strongly urge DOT to reverse its tentative decision to grant Norwegian Air a foreign air carrier permit.” Rep. Levin’s full comment can be found below and here. --- May 12, 2016 The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue S.E. Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx: All too often in today’s globalized economy, multinational corporations develop creative ways to compete, whether it be seeking lower tax rates, weaker labor standards, or the more lax environmental provisions. In the context of aviation services, certain airlines have adopted “flags of convenience” to take advantage of weaker standards or more profitable regulatory regimes. Norwegian Air International (NAI) is a striking example of this practice. As its name implies, Norwegian Air is a Norwegian company, but has registered itself in Ireland to avoid Norwegian labor standards and employ its crews using short-term contracts governed by Singapore’s, yet another country, labor code. Put simply, NAI is circumventing its home country’s labor laws in order to hire its crews using cheaper foreign contracts. Despite these facts, the Department of Transportation (DOT) has tentatively granted Norwegian Air’s application to provide permanent service to the United States. In doing so, DOT is arguing that it is required to grant Norwegian Air’s application. This is simply not the case. The statute at issue provides DOT with ample discretion, allowing DOT to undergo a public interest analysis. DOT argues that it is not allowed to perform such an analysis given the presence of an Open Skies Agreement between the United States and EU, but merely points to legislative history to support its contention. The same Senate Report asserts, however, that DOT “still retain[s] the power to withhold a permit where issuance would not be in the public interest.” The statute clearly does not require DOT to grant an application where the grant would be inconsistent with the public interest. Thus, DOT should use its discretion to perform a public interest analysis in this case. And when DOT completes its public interest analysis, NAI’s use of a flag of convenience demands that DOT reject their application. The U.S. statute explicitly requires DOT to consider “fair wages and working conditions” in its public interest analysis and the Open Skies Agreement itself asserts that the agreement is “not intended to undermine labor standards” and that this principle “shall guide the Parties as they implement the agreement…” In fact, this language was added in 2011 with the intent of providing parties a basis for addressing these types of issues. It would be a mistake to base this decision on an unnecessarily restrictive legal opinion on such an important and precedent-setting issue. On this issue and other international economic issues like it, it is incumbent upon the U.S. government to fully use the tools it has available to support U.S. workers and U.S. competitiveness. With regard to Norwegian Air’s application, DOT has discretion in making its decision. And the underlying agreement asserts that labor standards are not to be undermined. With this in mind, I strongly urge DOT to reverse its tentative decision to grant Norwegian Air a foreign air carrier permit. Sincerely, Sander M. Levin Member of Congress ###
05.11.2016	(Remarks as delivered) “Nearly 47 million Americans are living in poverty – that includes one in five children. Poverty rates for individuals with a college degree have recently gone up. A family of four is living on less than $24,000 a year on average. “Think of the impossible choices these families are making every day: transportation to work, childcare, school supplies, food for dinner, housing. They worry about what they will do if they get sick and have no leave, or their car breaks down. And they worry that they are in no position to save for their child’s college, or their own retirement. “No one should think that we are addressing the crisis of poverty in our country with the bills before us today. This crisis requires far more than the changes in these bills. Today’s proceedings represent another missed opportunity to seriously address poverty in America. “No action on expanding affordable housing by this Majority. “No action on paid leave, or equal pay for women. “No action on increasing the minimum wage, which the Congressional Budget Office has estimated would lift 900,000 people out of poverty. “No action on making higher education – 2 and 4 year college – more affordable so that Americans can gain the skills needed to climb into the middle class. “No action to expand early childhood education, or to ensure that parents have access to quality child care. “No action to expand the Earned Income Tax Credit to include workers without children. “In fact, the only actions that we have seen from the Republicans are proposals to cut the programs that have kept millions of families out of poverty. “They propose cuts to food stamps and Social Security. They want to voucherize Medicare and turn Medicaid and CHIP into a block grant. And they’ve voted – I can’t even keep track of how many times – to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which is giving some families peace of mind for the first time. “Finally, none of today’s bills would actually extend the TANF program. Clearly, TANF must be extended before it expires on September 30th. It would be much more certain if it were part of these bills. The extension should be straightforward, and should not be subjected to uncertainties or maneuvering from the Majority.” ###
05.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2016 – a bipartisan bill the House passed last month by a vote of 415-2 – that would create an open and transparent process for the House to consider future Miscellaneous Tariff Bills (MTBs): “Today, the Senate joined the House in standing up for manufacturers across our country. By establishing a process to consider future MTBs, Congress took an important step forward in supporting U.S. manufacturing jobs, while at the same time including strong transparency provisions and a thorough vetting process. Congress never should have allowed this process to lapse, and I look forward to the President signing this legislation into law so we can finally begin to provide the support our Americans manufacturers and workers deserve.” ###
05.06.2016	Rosevile, MI - As Rep. Levin prepared to meet with workers negatively impacted by the State’s flawed automated fraud detection system, the State sent out a response to his letter of April 25th. “I’m glad to have gotten a response to this issue from the Department of Talent and Economic Development, but there a number of inaccuracies in the letter, and the issue remains that thousands of Michiganders still need to have their cases reviewed and may need to be reimbursed by the state,” said Rep. Levin. “I regret that the State has taken this long, but I’m glad to be informed that they reached out to the regional DOL office last night to indicate a willingness to review cases. The Governor needs to now take responsibility for the mistakes that were made, and work to review and reimburse residents where appropriate.” The Facts: 1. The Governor’s office has informed members of the press that the state is not able to review cases older than one year old, due to state statute. The US Department of Labor told Congressman Levin’s office this morning that, “The state raised that issue with DOL UI as well, and they were informed that their statute doesn’t control in this case because the original adjudications were not conducted in compliance with Federal law." 2. In the fourth paragraph of the letter, it reads: “The UIA is complying with federal law” in regards to claimants rights to protest or appeal. During the period from October 2013 to August 2015, the UIA was not in compliance with federal law. The UIA is still not in compliance with federal law with regards to issues of due process and notifications. As far as our office is aware, there are still issues with informing claimants in a timely manner of fraud charges, including the necessary information about those charges, and in being responsive to calls made by claimants to the Agency. For example, if a claimant doesn’t receive a letter notifying them of fraud charges until after the 30 day window to appeal passes – or never receives a letter at all – they are not able to appeal and are considered guilty of fraud. An April 2016 Auditor General report found that UIA failed to provide adequate or proper notice to those accused of fraud. Claimants accused of fraud cannot appeal those allegations without receiving notice. o The report found that: § “UIA did not effectively and efficiently process claimant and employer mail that was returned undeliverable and without a forwarding address.” § The UIA could have improved efforts to contact claimants who did not respond to UIA’s original requests for information, including for requests that were returned by USPS as undeliverable. § The UIA did not clearly inform claimants that a failure to respond would lead to a finding of fraud. § The UIA did not provide to claimants the facts that lead to the initial finding of fraud, which is required by both federal regulation and state law. § The UIA would collect money from claimants despite these issues – even for those claimants that had not received notice. § Nearly 235,000 phone calls – or 89% - made to the UIA call center went unanswered during two separate weeks in August and September 2014. 3. In the sixth paragraph, the letter says that “of the 7 percent [of cases] that are appealed, the UIA's decision stands in the majority of cases.” This is not consistent with the February 2016 auditor general report. A February 2016 Auditor General report found that fraud was affirmed in only 8 percent of appeals. Sixty four percent of claims were reversed or dismissed, while 22 percent were remanded to UIA. o Despite the fact that states are required by federal law to independently verify computer identified fraud cases, Michigan’s UIA did not do so until August, 2015. o October, 2015, DOL sent an advisory to state unemployment benefit agencies reminding them of the requirements of Federal law pertaining to protecting individual rights in state procedures to prevent or recover unemployment compensation overpayments. The advisory said that in order to be eligible for administrative grants a state must do a number of things, including “independently verify information received from a computer cross-match with a Federal database or other automatic processes or matches before suspending, terminating, reducing, or making a final denial of UC.” Rep. Sandy Levin sent a letter on April 25th to Governor Snyder asking that he review claimants’ cases and reimburse them where necessary. For more information on the issue, see a Factsheet put together by Congressman Levin’s office here. ###
05.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement ahead of Yom HaShoah Holocaust Remembrance Day, which is Thursday, May 5: “On this Yom HaShoah Holocaust Remembrance Day, we honor the memory of the six million Jews and the millions of other victims of the Holocaust. The Remembrance Day must be part of a constant reminder to give meaning to the words “Never Again.” This solemn occasion is also an opportunity to recommit ourselves to the fight against anti-Semitism, hatred, and bigotry in all forms, and build a world for future generations that is based on openness, freedom, and justice.” ###
04.28.2016	To view video of today’s markup, click here (Remarks as delivered) “I appreciate my Republican colleagues working with us on the first bill to help law enforcement find missing children. It’s a very important step. “I also appreciate my colleagues working with us on the third bill, the Stolen Identity Refund Fraud Prevention Act of 2015. Again, progress is being made on an issue of importance to our constituents. “I am deeply concerned with the second bill before us – H.R. 5053 – which would prohibit the IRS from collecting the identity of donors who contribute to tax-exempt organizations. “After the Citizens United Supreme Court decision in 2010, there was a sharp rise in undisclosed money in federal elections, which has created opportunities for influence-buying and corruption. “This bill potentially opens the door for unlimited, secret money from foreign governments or individuals to be funneled into our elections. Currently, foreign money cannot be legally given or spent in our elections. And the only real protection we have against the use of foreign money by politically active 501(c)(4) organizations is that they must disclose their donors to the IRS. “Instead of working to move us forward on this problem of undisclosed money in elections – to make the whole system more transparent – this bill moves us backward. “In this election cycle already, political spending by tax-exempt groups is five times the amount spent at this point during the 2012 cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. “The Republicans have thus far prevented the IRS from issuing regulations on political spending by 501(c)(4) organizations. “It is no secret as to why they are working to keep donors a secret – the three largest spenders from 2012 – representing fully 51% of the total – include Karl Rove’s Crossroads GPS spent $71 million; Americans for Prosperity, the Koch brothers, spent $36 million; and the American Future Fund, also the Koch brothers, spent $25 million. “What this bill does, to put it simply, is to solidify the secrecy around the role of big money in campaigns. “We should not support these efforts to reduce transparency and make it easier for donors to pour unlimited funds into political campaigns, including foreign donors. This essentially puts a veil of secrecy over those donations.” ###
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today celebrated the passage of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act. The bill authorizes the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), which was created in 2009 by President Obama. Despite funding the program every year since then, Congress has never formally legitimatized the program through legislation. The legislation authorizes the GLRI at $300 million per year through 2020. This is the same amount that Rep. Levin and a bipartisan group of fifty-five lawmakers requested that the House Appropriations Committee allocate to the program this year. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act will allow this successful program to continue the critical work being done in Michigan and throughout the Great Lakes region. We’ve seen the impact that GLRI has had with the cleanup of the Clinton River Watershed. I’m pleased the House passed this bill so this program can continue its work,” said Rep. Levin. The GLRI has also accelerated the cleanup of Areas of Concern (AOC) around the Great Lakes. Since 2009, three sites – including White Lake in Michigan – have been de-listed. As a comparison, between the identification of AOCs in 1985 and 2005, only one site was cleaned up and del-listed. Over the last seven years, with bipartisan support from Congress, the federal government has invested nearly $2 billion on more than 2,000 GLRI projects. This inter-agency program focuses on five major Great Lakes ecosystem problems: cleaning up the Great Lakes Areas of Concern (AOC), fighting invasive species, targeting nearshore nonpoint pollution, restoring habitat and protecting wildlife, and promoting environmental education and partnerships. ###
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukraine Caucus co-chairs Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) today released the following statement on the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster: “Today, the international community marks the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. Together with the people of Ukraine, we remember the tragedy that occurred and offer our thoughts and prayers to the families of those who lost loved ones. We remain mindful that Chernobyl's legacy remains a heavy burden for the people of Ukraine. “We must also remember the experience of the hundreds of thousands who fled the area, or were relocated or displaced. The effect of Chernobyl lingers, socially, economically, and culturally. That is why our continued humanitarian aid in the region is so vital to help build a bright future for these communities and their people who persevered in the face of such cataclysm.” At 1:23am on April 26th, 1986, operators in the control room of Reactor Number 4 mishandled a routine safety test at Chernobyl's Vladimir Illyich Lenin Nuclear Power Station in the former Soviet Union, present day Ukraine. The mishandled test led to a catastrophic explosion that burned for 10 days. The radioactive fallout spread over tens of thousands of square miles, driving more than a quarter of a million people permanently from their homes. The reactor discharged the largest-ever uncontrolled amount of radioactive material into the environment. Its radiation reached 42 percent of Europe's territory and prompted the deployment of an army of 800,000 emergency workers. Memories of the disaster are etched in the history of Europe, of the reactor burning for days and miles-long columns of evacuation buses carrying thousands of people away from the plume of radiation. The event drove a third of a million people from their homes and triggered an epidemic of thyroid cancer in children. Over the years, the economic losses—health and cleanup costs, compensation, lost productivity—have mounted to hundreds of billions of dollars. Geiger counters still signal strong radioactive presence in hotspots throughout the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone, a 19-mile security area surrounding the plant’s remains that has become an overgrown forest. ###
04.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today urged Governor Rick Snyder to review the claims of fraud made by the state Unemployment Insurance Agency’s (UIA) automated system and fully reimburse those citizens who were harmed due to inaccurate determinations. In October 2013, Michigan implemented the Michigan Integrated Data Automated System (MiDAS), which used an automated computer program without human oversight to make official determinations of fraud in unemployment insurance claims. From March 2014 to March 2015, MiDAS alleged approximately 27,000 unemployment insurance claims to be fraudulent – five times the typical number of cases established by the UIA – and collected $57 million in penalties and garnished wages and tax returns with little notice and without due process. A February 2016 Michigan Auditor General report found that computer-determined fraud was affirmed in only 8 percent of cases that were appealed. “I find it shocking and deeply concerning that the State has not gone back and sought to verify allegations of fraud and moved to re-pay any unemployed worker who was wrongly accused and whose wages or tax refunds were wrongly garnished or were required to pay penalty without proper notice,” Rep. Levin wrote in the letter. “While the UIA has taken small steps to rectify problems caused by the automated system, it is incumbent upon the UIA to verify that all previously alleged instances of fraud were, in fact, fraud. And, where mistakes were made, Michiganders should absolutely receive their money back. As the Governor of our State, you should insist that this be done. “When I spoke to [the U.S. Department of Labor], they re-iterated that they have advised the UIA to re-adjudicate all instances of alleged fraud in order to be in compliance with federal law and reimburse those wrongfully accused of fraud.” The unemployment compensation program, also known as unemployment insurance, is a joint federal and state program that provides assistance to workers who are unemployed through no fault of their own while they look for a new job. Rep. Levin is the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Ways & Means, which has jurisdiction over the federal-state system of unemployment compensation. The full letter can be found below and a PDF is available here. A factsheet on the issue can be found here. --- The Honorable Rick Snyder Governor, State of Michigan George W. Romney Building 111 South Capitol Avenue Lansing, MI 48933 Dear Governor Snyder: As Ranking Member of the Committee on Ways & Means, which has jurisdiction over federal-state unemployment compensation programs, I am writing to make it clear that Michigan must review the claims of fraud made by the State Unemployment Insurance Agency’s automated system and fully reimburse those citizens of our state who were harmed due to inaccurate determinations. In October 2013, the State began to rely solely on the Michigan Integrated Data Automated System (MiDAS) – a computer program without human involvement – to make official determinations of fraud. This computer program was so grievously flawed that the State should have detected that there was a problem. During the year from March 2014 to March 2015, the automated system alleged close to 27,000 cases of fraud – five times the typical number of cases established by the Michigan UIA – costing claimants $57 million in fines and garnered wages and income taxes. In contrast, in 2012, the year before MiDAS was implemented, the account that holds funds collected from fraud allegations contained only $3 million. And, in February 2016, the Michigan Auditor General found that that computer-determined fraud was affirmed in only 8 percent of appeals, with a full 64 percent reversed or dismissed, and 22 percent where the UIA was asked to review them again. I understand that because of oversight efforts by the U.S. DOL (DOL), the computer system is no longer in violation of federal law and has placed an employee back in charge of verifying any fraud allegation. That is a relief, but I am dismayed to learn that the State continues to resist recommendations to improve current notice procedures so they meet federal requirements. This foot dragging was verified in recent days by the Michigan Auditor General which found that UIA “needs to improve its efforts to obtain and/or consider supporting information and provide claimants with the facts and rationale when accusing claimants of providing false or misleading information.” I also understand that there is a bi-partisan effort under way in the state legislature to address problems with the system going forward. I commend those efforts and I hope they result in full and adequate improvements. But I find it shocking and deeply concerning that the State has not gone back and sought to verify allegations of fraud and moved to re-pay any unemployed worker who was wrongly accused and whose wages or tax refunds were wrongly garnished or were required to pay penalty without proper notice. Unfortunately, in the fall of 2015, UIA only re-evaluated a small batch of the over 60,000 computer-determined fraud adjudications focusing only where the individual had appealed. This leaves out a large portion of the false fraud determinations that haven’t been appealed or appealed late when it has been confirmed by the Auditor General that UIA’s procedures for notice are wholly inadequate. When I spoke to DOL, they re-iterated that they have advised the UIA to re-adjudicate all instances of alleged fraud in order to be in compliance with federal law and reimburse those wrongfully accused of fraud. The unemployment program is in place to provide assistance to workers who are unemployed through no fault of their own while they look for a new job. If fraud occurs in any government program, there is an absolute responsibility to rectify it. But when a government system fails the people it is in place to assist, there is also an absolute responsibility to rectify it. While the UIA has taken small steps to rectify problems caused by the automated system, it is incumbent upon the UIA to verify that all previously alleged instances of fraud were, in fact, fraud. And, where mistakes were made, Michiganders should absolutely receive their money back. As the Governor of our State, you should insist that this be done. As the Ranking Member of the Committee on Ways and Means, I will continue working with the DOL to ensure that Michigan’s unemployment insurance benefit system complies with all federal requirements, including a claimant’s due process rights. The DOL is clearly required to withhold Michigan’s federal administrative funding allocation (over $100 million annually) for UI if Michigan is not in compliance with Section 303(a)(1) or 303(a)(3) of Social Security Act which provide requirements for the operation of federal-state unemployment programs. I would welcome hearing from you on this important matter. Sincerely, Sander Levin ###
04.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement honoring the 101st anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, on April 24: “I join Armenians around the world in solemn commemoration of the 101st anniversary of the Armenian Genocide. Over a century ago, the Ottoman Empire engaged in a systematic campaign to eliminate the Armenian people. Men, women, and children of all ages were thrown out of their homes and their property seized. They were subjected to death marches through the desert, and were raped, tortured, and killed. “Despite the strongly established historical record, the United States still fails to formally recognize the Armenian Genocide. Formal recognition is necessary to honor fully the memory of those who lost their lives by acknowledging this atrocity for what it was – genocide. “It is often said that we must remember our history if we do not want to repeat it – but we cannot remember what we do not recognize. I will continue to join the chorus of other voices until there is full and official recognition of the Armenian Genocide.” ###
04.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee leaders sent a bipartisan letter to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Acting Administrator Andy Slavitt, pressing the agency to collect, analyze, and publish additional data regarding the mental and behavioral health of Medicare patients. The letter was sent by Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Health Subcommittee Chairman Pat Tiberi (R-OH), and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA). In their letter, the lawmakers called on CMS to expand upon its recent initiatives to improve data transparency so that health care providers can better meet the needs of beneficiaries. This information will also enable Congress to better understand the mental and behavioral health issues that Medicare beneficiaries face in their daily lives. “While CMS has a standard list of chronic conditions used for data releases, the information relating to mental health conditions should be more granular in order to be meaningful,” the Members wrote. “CMS needs to ensure that access to necessary data on America’s seniors is available as necessary to enable providers to best serve them…We strongly recommend that the availability of this data be reexamined in order to coordinate care for mental and behavioral health and to improve the delivery of the health care that our seniors expect and deserve.” The full letter can be found here. ###
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today introduced legislation to bring fairness to the tax code by restoring the estate tax and gift tax to the more sensible levels that were in effect in 2009. “Over the past decade, fewer and fewer estates have been required to pay the estate tax, further exacerbating the growing issue of wealth inequality in our nation,” said Rep. Levin. “This disturbing trend is yet another stark example of how broken and unfair our tax code is, which is why we have to take action. Requiring more of the wealthiest estates to pay the estate tax and raising the estate tax rate are commonsense steps we can take toward making our tax code fairer.” The estate and gift taxes are part of the federal transfer tax system. The estate tax is imposed on certain transfers at death, while the gift tax is imposed on certain transfers during life. The estate tax was established to help reduce wealth and income inequality in the U.S. – a growing problem – and results in more of the wealthiest Americans paying their fair share of taxes. Fewer than 5,200 estates owed any estate tax in 2015, resulting in 99.85 percent of all estates across the country owing no estate tax. Under current law significant appreciated assets pass tax-free without being subject to any tax on their appreciation, even after transfer and subsequent sale. Currently, estates valued at or below $5.45 million ($10.9 million for a couple) are exempt from owing any estate tax. H.R. 4996, The Sensible Estate Tax Act of 2016 would return to 2009 levels, lowering the estate tax exemption to $3.5 million ($7 million jointly) and increasing the maximum tax rate to 45 percent. The Administration has included a proposal to set the estate and gift tax to 2009 levels in each of its previous budget proposals, which the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) estimated last month would save more than $161 billion over 10 years. To read a summary of the bill, click here. To read the bill text, click here. Original cosponsors of the bill are Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), Ways and Means Committee Democratic Members Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Richard E. Neal (D-MA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), and Joe Crowley (D-NY), and Budget Committee Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). ###
04.20.2016	(Remarks as delivered) “My view and the view of most of my colleagues today is, as the saying goes: ‘Better late than never.’ “The last time Congress passed an MTB bill was in 2010, when Democrats were in the majority. The MTB was a legitimate exercise of congressional authority, and the process we had in place worked very well. It had been developed over the years on a bipartisan basis. “We received input directly from the public, from the Administration, and from the independent International Trade Commission. That input ensured, first and foremost, that there was no domestic production in competition with the imported products included in the bill. Not only was the process rigorous, it was transparent. The Sunlight Foundation praised our work as ‘transparency done right.’ “I remember the vote in 2010 very well. The Republican leadership objected to the MTB and didn’t want it to come to the Floor. When we brought the bill to the Floor, the support was overwhelming. Many Republican Members switched their votes to ‘yes,’ I think voting based on their constituent needs, not the argument over process. Three hundred and seventy eight Members voted for the bill. Only 42 Republicans and one Democrat voted no. “So it is unfortunate that, almost six years later, we are just beginning to put in place a process for considering a future MTB bill. If everything goes according to plan, Congress will pass the next MTB bill before the end of 2017 – almost five years after the last MTB expired. “That delay has been bad for U.S. manufacturers and U.S. manufacturing competitiveness. According to the National Association of Manufacturers, U.S. companies have had to pay $748 million each year in additional duties. NAM estimates that those additional duties cost our economy $2 billion annually. “We need to move forward without further delay. In my judgment, this new process may not be preferable to the process in the past. But it is acceptable. I will therefore support this legislation and look forward to finally making progress again on the MTB.” ###
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement to mark Tax Day – the filing deadline for IRS tax returns: “Unable to act on a budget or other key legislation, the Republicans are castigating the IRS for its poor customer service, when it is their budget cuts that are responsible for the declines in service. Republicans should have Congress acting on significant issues like the budget,” said Rep. Levin. “Republicans also use tax reform as an excuse for failure to act immediately on another pressing issue – corporate tax inversions. While the Administration has taken steps to curb corporate tax inversions, their action is still not enough. Congress must pass legislation immediately to stop the flow of corporate tax inversions once and for all, and then we must work together to reform the tax code so that it is fairer and more equitable for all Americans.” ###
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced that China has terminated an extensive export subsidies program challenged by the Administration at the World Trade Organization (WTO) last year. “China’s export subsidies – which were clearly prohibited by WTO rules – obstructed fair competition in global trade. Today’s announcement is significant and results from a WTO challenge by the Administration last year. This settlement reinforces the critical need to take action on all fronts against China’s predatory actions, which cause major job losses and serious damage to the American Economy.” ###
04.14.2016	To view video of the hearing, click here (Remarks as delivered) “Since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law six years ago, the progress we’ve seen in health care in this country is undeniable. Twenty million Americans who were previously uninsured now have quality coverage they can afford. Health care costs are growing at the slowest rate in more than 50 years. Millions of young adults have been able to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26. And nearly 130 million Americans no longer have to worry about being denied coverage or charged higher premiums because of pre-existing conditions. “Yet despite these gains, Republicans continue to try to cook up ways to destroy the law – there have been 63 votes in the House to repeal or undermine the law. That is a dangerous prospect on its own. But when it is paired with the fact that Republicans have no viable, comprehensive alternative with which to replace the ACA – that’s a recipe doomed to fail. “Take, for instance, the Republican proposal to eliminate or limit the tax exclusion that employers receive when they offer health insurance to employees as part of a compensation package. This would disrupt the employer-based health insurance system that 155 million working Americans and their families rely on for coverage, and likely result in many employers no longer offering health coverage to employees. And it would leave many, including employees who are older or in poor health, without the ability to find affordable coverage. “Republicans have also proposed expanding the use of Health Savings Accounts, which are associated with health plans that have high deductibles and most often used by wealthier households. HSAs are not an adequate replacement for comprehensive health care coverage, as they can actually lead low-and middle-income Americans to put off medical care because they simply cannot afford to pay high deductibles or copays. “Repealing the ACA as Republicans want to do would have devastating effects for the millions of Americans who use the tax credits that the law offers. The Advanced Premium Tax Credit and Premium Tax Credit are integral in making health insurance plans in the marketplace affordable for Americans. Unlike a once a year tax credit, we chose real-time tax credits to help hard-working American families afford coverage throughout the year. “Earlier this year, I met a woman who came down with breast cancer. She lost her job and health coverage. Because of the ACA, she was able to become covered again with health insurance. Her breast cancer reoccurred and she made clear to us that this new health coverage saved her life. Stories like these remind me of just how vital this law is. “Now is the time to keep building on this success, not start over and risk losing all that we have achieved for millions of Americans.” ###
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and 15 additional members of Congress introduced the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2016. This bipartisan bill creates an open and transparent process for the House to consider manufacturing tax cuts through the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB). The new process will help American manufacturers compete in the global market while also upholding the House earmark rules. Representatives Tiberi (R-OH), Blumenauer (D-OR), Reed (R-NY), Pascrell (D-NJ), Renacci (R-OH), Davis (D-IL), Walker (R-NC), Clyburn (D-SC), Mulvaney (R-SC), Doyle (D-PA), McClintock (R-CA), Bishop (D-GA), Rokita (R-IN), Courtney (D-CT), and Blum (R-IA) are original cosponsors of the bill. “This bipartisan bill will empower American manufacturers to compete around the world, create new jobs at home, and grow our economy. We’ve also made sure that the new process strictly upholds our earmark ban and that the American people are involved in every step along the way. I appreciate my colleagues’ support and leadership during this process and look forward to moving this bill through our committee very soon,” said Chairman Brady. “The MTB is a critical tool that supports American manufacturers and workers, and I’m pleased that we’re finally moving forward with this legislation. This bipartisan bill codifies a process for MTBs that will provide our manufacturers the support they need to be competitive. As global conditions in many manufacturing industries continue to toughen, Congress must pass this commonsense legislation,” said Ranking Member Levin. “Since the last MTB expired in 2012, American companies have faced an annual $748 million tax hike on manufacturing in the United States. This has resulted in a $1.8 billion loss to the U.S. economy, hurting our consumers and making us less competitive. Our bill creates a new process for consideration of manufacturing tax cuts that will lower costs and create more jobs at home while fully complying with our strong ban against earmarks," said Subcommittee Chairman Reichert. “This bill creates a new process for the consideration of MTBs that the entire Congress can support and builds on the transparency demonstrated during previous approvals of MTB legislation. In doing so, I expect this bill to receive the bipartisan support that the MTB has always had, and for good reason – the MTB provides much-needed assistance to our domestic manufacturers," said Subcommittee Ranking Member Rangel. Background on the 3-Step MTB Process: First, the new process would begin exclusively through petitions made by local U.S. businesses to the independent, non-partisan International Trade Commission (ITC). After the ITC receives petitions from the business community, an independent panel would receive comments from the public and the Administration and conduct its analysis. Second, the ITC would issue a public report to Congress with its analysis and recommendations regarding products that meet the MTB standards, including that there is no domestic production. Third, the Ways and Means Committee would examine the ITC’s recommendations and draft a MTB proposal. While the Committee can exclude products from its final proposal, it cannot add products that were not recommended by the ITC. As required by House rules, Ways and Means would certify that there are no spending earmarks and would publish a list of any Limited Tariff Benefits (LTB). Congress would then consider the MTB within existing rules. For more details on the new MTB process, click here. ###
04.13.2016	(Remarks as delivered) “The bills before us today are not a serious exercise in oversight of the IRS. Republicans on the Committee are using Tax Day – April 18th – as an opportunity to make further cuts to an agency that has already had its budget cut by around $1 billion over the last five years. “During that time, the IRS was forced to cut 12,000 full-time jobs, according to the GAO. It reduced employee training, and it delayed overdue upgrades to information technology. Audits last year reached the lowest level in a decade, with less than 1% of taxpayers being audited. Those cuts also resulted in terrible customer service and long wait times for hardworking taxpayers – as you see in this chart. That’s unacceptable. “In a letter to Senators in November, seven former IRS commissioners wrote that, “Over the last fifty years, none of us has ever witnessed anything like what has happened to the IRS appropriations over the last five years and the impact these appropriations reductions are having on our tax system.” “This year, as the chart shows, customer service at the IRS is expected to improve slightly due to the additional $290 million in funding included in last year’s omnibus, specifically for improvements in customer service. But that is still not enough. “Instead of increasing the IRS’s funding to levels needed to strengthen data security, enhance identity theft prevention, increase enforcement, and improve taxpayer services, the Republicans are introducing a bill that essentially cuts the IRS budget by $500 million. “Another bill gives the IRS a power that it already has – to terminate employees who are delinquent on their taxes – even though employees of the Treasury Department have the lowest rates of tax delinquency in the entire federal government, lower than employees of the House, and significantly lower than the general public. “If Republicans are really concerned about customer service and about the IRS doing its job effectively and efficiently, they should put forward a budget that restores the agency’s full funding.” ###
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today testified at a hearing held by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) and the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding overcapacity in the global steel industry. (Remarks as prepared) “Thank you for holding this important hearing. I hope the Administration will reach the following five conclusions after hearing from the many witnesses today and tomorrow. “First, without question, the steel industry today faces a true crisis. As Nucor CEO and President John Ferriola has put it, “This is much worse than the steel crisis of the late 1990s, when nearly two-thirds of the U.S. steel industry went into bankruptcy.” Over 12,000 American steelworkers lost their jobs last year – and many more will surely lose their jobs if we fail to act. “Second, this is a global problem, involving practices in a number of economies. Most of the overcapacity today originates in just one country -- China. The numbers are staggering. In the year 2000, China’s steel capacity was just over 100 million tons, roughly the same as the United States. Today, it is 1.2 billion tons – more than 10 times as high as U.S. capacity – and more than the total capacity of the United States, the European Union, Japan, and Russia combined. “Third, the problem in China largely results from excessive Chinese government intervention in its economy. The Chinese steel industry is largely state-owned and state-supported, and the economy is distorted in a myriad of ways. Chinese steel companies do not operate according to market conditions, instead operating based on decisions made by local Chinese officials with mandates to satisfy economic growth targets. Beyond having the express backing of their governments, many steel producers in China receive market-distorting subsidies and government-supported export incentives that have been mimicked by other countries attempting to ensure that their domestic steel industry remains competitive. Further, there are numerous reports concerning growing labor unrest in China in response to Chinese SOEs refusing to pay their employees’ salaries. How is a United States steel manufacturer supposed to compete with a government-backed Chinese competitor that can simply choose not pay its workers’ wages if the steel it produces does not sell? “Fourth, we need to act forcefully and immediately to address the global overcapacity problem. Commentators who are wedded to outdated economic theory will likely argue that we should take a “hands off” approach to this problem and let the market sort things out. But, again, the problem itself is that China is not allowing the market to operate. So, as the OECD Steel Committee Chairman put it last June: “A failure to address or halt market distortions will result in subsidized and state-supported enterprises surviving at the expense of private and efficient companies operating in environments with minimal government support.” “We need to seriously consider all options for action, including the full enforcement of our antidumping and countervailing duty laws, as well as a global section 201 safeguard action and actions at the WTO. While U.S. trade remedy laws provide some relief regarding certain unfair practices, the remedy laws do not provide relief from all unfair practices that have led to the steel overcapacity crisis. We also need to recognize simple reality: China is not a market economy today, and it would be foolish to pretend otherwise as we and our trading partners apply our trade remedy laws. “And we must not hesitate to act, as we have too often in the past. Indeed, our reluctance to act in the past likely only contributed to the current problem. Our government refused to apply the “China safeguard” time and time again in the 2000s. Most significantly, we were too squeamish about taking strong action to address China’s currency manipulation. Our unwillingness to act only emboldened China’s state planners – and contributed to the loss of millions of U.S. jobs, as recent economic studies have found. “Finally, while I hope our efforts will ultimately result in an international agreement, we need to be clear-eyed about what it will take to get other countries to come to the table, and about what an agreement should look like. Countries with massive overcapacity issues won’t come to the table if they think the alternative to an agreement is more or less the status quo. And, if we are able to reach an agreement, it needs to be binding and verifiable. We need to have confidence not only that the agreement is enforceable, but that it will be enforced. “In that regard, we need to take with a grain of salt China’s announcements that it intends to reduce its capacity by 100 million to 150 million tons. Those numbers are far too modest, given that China’s capacity has increased by about a billion tons over the past 15 years. In any event, promises like this in the past have proven hollow. We need a much stronger, immediate and binding commitment from China.” ###
04.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) released a final rule aimed at ensuring retirement advisors act in the best interests of consumers: “Retirement plan investing has changed dramatically since the Labor Department first issued rules in 1975 on when investment advice gives rise to fiduciary status. The DOL is issuing these regulations because it is vital to make sure Americans receive advice that is both conflict-free and in their best interest. I look forward to reviewing the final rules with these goals in mind and appreciate that the DOL has taken into account public comments, hearings, and hundreds of stakeholder meetings in drafting these final regulations.” ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressional Ukraine Caucus co-chairs Sander Levin (D-MI), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and caucus members Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA), Rep. Rosa DeLauro(D-CT), Rep. Robert Dold (R-IL), Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), and Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) today released the following statement on the verdict and sentencing of Ukrainian fighter pilot and Member of Parliament Nadiya Savchenko: “We condemn the verdict and the 22-year sentence issued today against Nadiya Savchenko. Russia’s handling of Savchekno’s capture and trial shows disregard for the rule of law and due process. Since her capture and imprisonment in July 2014 on trumped-up charges, her trial and hearing dates were repeatedly delayed, and the trial venue was moved to a remote region in Russia, difficult for independent observers to reach. Savchenko also endured interrogations, solitary confinement, and forced psychiatric evaluations. “Savchenko has come to represent the spirit of an independent Ukraine, free from interference and eager to embrace the will of its own people. We join the people of Ukraine in expressing deep concern for her wellbeing, and in protesting this unjust outcome. Once again, we call on Russian authorities to release her immediately.” ####
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and David Joyce (R-OH) today led a bipartisan group of 55 House lawmakers in requesting $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) for Fiscal Year 2017. This successful initiative is helping restore the Great Lakes, which provide drinking water for nearly 40 million people and support jobs, commerce, agriculture, transportation, and tourism. “We can’t undo 150 years of pollution in the Great Lakes in just 7 years,” said Rep. Levin. “That’s why Congress must continue to fully fund Great Lakes restoration. Now is not the time to cut this vital effort.” “The Great Lakes are critical to our region and are a key source of drinking water, jobs, and recreation for millions of Americans. Congress must adequately fund the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative so we can continue efforts to protect the safety and security of our water,” said Rep. Slaughter. “GLRI is working. We are talking about drinking water for 40 million people, and in light of what we’ve seen happen in Toledo and Flint, now is the time to make sure this successful program is fully funded, not cut by 17%,” said Rep. Joyce. In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations panel with jurisdiction over environmental programs, the lawmakers are calling for $300 million in 2017 for the GLRI to continue this successful initiative. This amount exceeds the $250 million requested by the Obama Administration in February. In its budget request, the Administration called for a 17 percent reduction from the current $300 million funding level. The GLRI is a seven-year-old effort to protect, restore and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. The inter-agency program provides funding to address vital environmental issues in the Great Lakes, such as cleaning up contaminated sediments, reducing polluted runoff, mitigating habitat degradation and loss, and addressing invasive species such as the Asian carp. The program has invested $2.2 billion in Great Lakes restoration over the last seven years. You can learn more about GLRI projects here. A copy of the letter is included below and online here: Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: We are writing to respectfully request that you provide $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2017 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The Great Lakes are the largest system of fresh surface water in the world and a unique natural resource. The Lakes provide drinking water for nearly 40 million people, and are also an economic driver that supports jobs, commerce, agriculture, transportation, and tourism. More than a century of environmental damage has taken a significant toll on the Great Lakes, which the GLRI is helping to correct. Since the initiative was launched in 2010, GLRI funds have been used to support over 2900 restoration projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitat, clean up environmentally-impaired Areas of Concern, fight invasive species, and prevent beach closings. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is showing real and measurable results, but there is still a great deal of work to do. For example, during its first six years, the GLRI has prioritized the cleanup of Great Lakes Areas of Concern (AOCs) resulting in three U.S. AOCs being delisted (Presque Isle, Deer Lake, White Lake) and restoration work being completed at four more (Sheboygan, Ashtabula, Waukegan and St. Clair). Notwithstanding this significant progress, there are still 24 U.S. AOCs that require significant attention. We urge you to continue this vital investment in the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes. The $300 million we are requesting for this program is equal to the funding provided in the FY 2016 Consolidated Appropriations Act and also is in line with the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act authorization legislation being considered in both the House and Senate. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. ###
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), who described in detail a year ago changes required in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations to gain his support and broad bipartisan support, today released a statement in opposition to TPP – a trade agreement between the United States and 11 other countries in the Pacific Rim region that accounts for 40 percent of the world’s GDP. KEY EXCERPTS “My main concern is how TPP might impact jobs and the livelihood of American workers. We have lost millions of good jobs as other nations have competed against us unfairly.” --- “In 2007, when House Democrats took the Majority, we set a new course for U.S. trade policy. That new policy recognized that as we expand international trade we must raise international standards, not engage in a race to the bottom. We developed what became known as the May 10th Agreement. For the first time, strong and fully-enforceable labor and environmental standards were incorporated into our trade agreements on equal footing with every other commercial provision. And we recognized the need to make clear that our trade agreements are not intended to grant foreign investors greater substantive rights under U.S. law than U.S. investors have. We also worked to find an appropriate balance between protection of intellectual property rights and access to affordable medicines, particularly in developing nations.” --- “TPP as negotiated falls short of an acceptable outcome, and I cannot support it. There are four key areas - worker rights, currency manipulation, the rules of origin, and investment – where the results are wholly inadequate. There are other issues where I had urged our negotiators to reach a stronger conclusion than they did in the final agreement, including access to medicines, environmental standards, and state-owned enterprises.” --- “Trade touches all aspects of our lives, and we are setting an economic framework for generations. We cannot afford to lock in weak standards, uncompetitive practices, and a system that does not spread the benefits of trade, affecting the paychecks of American families.” “To not get it right is to get it wrong. And this TPP as negotiated is not right for America.” Rep. Levin’s full statement can be found on Medium here. BACKGROUND RESOURCES Report: The Trans-Pacific Partnership: A Path Forward to an Effective AgreementForums: Trading Views: A series of in-depth forums on key issues in TPPBlog Series: TPP In Focus: A blog series on key issues in TPPITC Testimony: Rep. Levin Testimony at ITC TPP Hearing, January 2016 ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) today made the following remarks at a press conference following the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hearing on the Flint water crisis: “So many representatives here today from across the country embodies that this is a national issue. But primarily, this is a State responsibility. If I might say so, the fact that there was a hearing, alright, but a hearing without having State officials there, isn’t really even half of a hearing. I think this going to turn out to be penny-wise and a billion dollars foolish. But let me just say what’s most important, and that is the human dimensions of this – the impact on families and the impact on children. So it’s going to be a State responsibility primarily to provide the necessary monies for health, for education, for infrastructure, and everything else. With my colleagues I’ll be there in Flint on Saturday to try to drive home the State has to now step up to its full responsibility.” ####
01.21.2016	ROSEVILLE, MI – U.S. Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) today joined Macomb County Executive Mark Hackel and more than 60 mayors, city managers, superintendents, school board members, and other local leaders from Oakland and Macomb to decry the recently enacted 60-Day “Gag Order” provision in the new Michigan campaign finance law. Under the legislation, local officials and school districts are not allowed to provide factual information about proposed ballot measures within 60 days of an election. Rep. Levin said: “Under the new law – passed under the cloak of darkness – within 60 days of an election, a school district or local government cannot tell people whether a millage question appearing on their ballot is a new tax or a renewal of a previous millage, or even tell residents what their tax dollars would be spent on should a millage be approved. The large gathering today of local leaders from various walks of life vowed to turn up the heat until this misguided provision is repealed.” Mark Hackel, Macomb County Executive said: “The public has a right to information about what is on their ballot, and as an elected representative of the people of Macomb County, I’m offended that the Legislature says I have to keep my mouth shut about ballot issues for the 60 days leading up to an election. The people of Macomb County expect to get factual information from me and from other public officials, and it’s outrageous the Legislature decided that this issue is more pressing than roads, public safety, and educating our children.” Jim Fouts, Warren Mayor said: “I can think of nothing more fundamental than the freedom of speech. This law is an attempt to muzzle elected and appointed local officials. It limits free speech, it eliminates the free exchange of ideas, it doesn’t allow us to let citizens know about proposals on the ballot and it prohibits free and open discussion. Enough is enough.” Dr. Jackie Johnston, L’Anse Creuse Public Schools Superintendent said: “On March 8th, L’Anse Creuse Public Schools is asking voters to consider approval of a non-homestead millage renewal, which goes toward daily operations in our schools. Our voters expect and deserve information from us when making their decision. This law is a barrier to transparency, and keeps factual information from them – it must be repealed.” Jessica Keyser, Ferndale Area Library Director said: “PA 269/SB 571 created criminal and civil penalties for librarians and boards concerning sharing of factual information about their elections within 60 days of Election Day. As librarians, we see this as not only a free speech issue but also a blow to transparency in government and harmful to one of librarians’ basic doctrines which is to educate patrons and inform citizens about issues impacting their communities.” Michael Taylor, Sterling Heights Mayor said: “Last year, the Governor asked Mayors from across the state to share information with our residents about Proposal 1, which was a very complicated ballot measure. A few weeks ago, he signed a bill into law that would make me a criminal for doing what he asked me to do less than one year ago. This law needs to be repealed to allow us as public officials to give our residents unbiased, factual information about what we are placing on the ballot for their consideration.” Full List of Attendees: Bill Anderson, Government Finance Specialist, SEMCOG Fred Barbret, Community Ombudsperson, SMART Howard Baron, School Trustee, Bloomfield Hills Schools Piper Bognar, Van Dyke Schools Sheila Brice, Board President, Birmingham-Baldwin Public Library Amy Butters, School Board Member, Ferndale Public Schools Dennis Champine, City Manager, City of Center Line Cardi deMonaco, Jr, Councilman, Eastpointe Barb Dempsey, Mayor, Mount Clemens Steve Duchane, City Manager, City of Eastpointe Jim Ellison, Mayor, City of Royal Oak Jim Fouts, Mayor, City of Warren Charles Frontera, City Council Member, City of Roseville Theresa Genest, Board Vice President, Macomb Intermediate School District Dr. Robert Glass, Superintendent, Bloomfield Hills Schools Mark Hackel, County Executive, Macomb County Jan Haggerty, Mayor Pro Tem, City of Roseville Heather Hames, Director, Center Line Public Library Michael Holland, Fire Chief, City of Roseville Dan Hutchins, Director, Harrison Township Public Library Dr. Christine Johns, Superintendent, Utica Community Schools Dr. Jackie Johnston, Superintendent, L’Anse Creuse Public Schools Jessica Keyser, Director, Ferndale Area District Library Alan Kideckel, City Council Member, City of Berkley Gene Klida, Board Vice President, Utica Community Schools Veronica Klinefelt, County Commissioner, Macomb County Ed Klobucher, City Manager, City of Hazel Park Susan Krichbaum, Vice President, Metropolitan Affairs Coalition Dr. Amy Kruppe, Superintendent, Hazel Park Schools Dr. Robert Livernois, Superintedent, Warren Consolidated Schools Mike Lovelock, Supervisor, Chesterfield Township Sarah Lucido, Councilwoman, Eastpointe Midge Lusardi, Director, Chesterfield Township Library April Lynch, City Manager, City of Ferndale Jeremy Mahrle, Commissioner, Royal Oak John Marion, Councilman, Eastpointe Dennis McDavid, Superintendent, Berkley Schools Ryan McLeod, Superintendent, East Detroit Public Schools Nicole McKee, Macomb Community College Jamie Morris, Director of Community Relations, Clinton-Macomb Public Library Joseph Nichols, Mayor, City of Fraser Bill Pearson, Superintendent, Mt. Clemens Public Schools Karl Paulson, Superintendent, Lakeview Public Schools Ann Perry, City Commissioner, City of Pleasant Ridge Suzanne Pixley, Mayor, City of Eastpointe Blake Prewitt, Superintendent, Ferndale Public Schools Beth Pyden, Board Vice President, Chippewa Valley Schools Ronald Roberts, Superintendent, Chippewa Valley Schools Bill Shoemaker, City Council Member, City of Roseville Mike Smith, City Manager, City of St. Clair Shores George Sobah, Trustee, Chippewa Valley Schools Randy Speck, Superintendent, Madison District Public Schools Amy Sullivan, City Manager, City of Huntington Woods Michael Taylor, Mayor, City of Sterling Heights Robert Taylor, Mayor, City of Roseville Sue Trombley, Board President, Warren Consolidated Schools Mark Vanderpool, City Manager, City of Sterling Heights Elizabeth Vogel, Deputy Supervisor, Clinton Township Mike Webb, City Councilman, Hazel Park Tracy Wilson, Librarian, Roseville Public Library Jennifer Zelmanski, Deputy City Clerk, Roseville ####
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Mike Quigley (D-IL), members of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, continue to call on Russia to release Ukrainian fighter pilot and Member of Parliament Nadiya Savchenko. On December 17, 2015, Savchenko began a hunger strike and is reported to be in ill health. The House of Representatives has passed a bipartisan resolution [H.Res.50] highlighting her illegal detention and calling for her release. Savchenko was captured by pro-Russian forces in July 2014 in Eastern Ukraine; and was illegally transferred to Russia and later charged with murder. Savchenko’s trial in a remote region of Russia began in September, and independent press access has been severely restricted. A guilty verdict is widely expected. “We continue to call on Russian authorities to immediately release Nadiya Savchenko from custody, now well into its second year. We are gravely concerned by recent reports of her ill health since the commencement of her hunger strike. Since her detention in July 2014, Russian authorities have repeatedly delayed Savchenko’s trial and hearing dates, moved her trial venue to discourage attendance, and restricted access to witnesses. We demand that Russia abide by its international obligations and the rule of law, and we join the international community in calling for Nadiya Savchenko’s immediate release,” said Rep. Sander Levin, co-chair of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. “Since July of 2014 Nadiya Savchenko – a member of the Ukrainian Parliament and military veteran – has been unlawfully detained by Russian authorities. Her crime? Unsubstantiated charges stemming from her defense of her nation against Russia’s blatant military aggression. For more than two years, Ms. Savchenko has been incarcerated in Russia in clear violation of her human rights and international standards and now is reportedly in poor health. The U.S. stands with Ukraine in demanding the immediate release of Nadiya Savchenko and an end Russian interference,” said Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick, co-chair of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. “Nadiya Savchenko is the personification of the new Ukraine—resilient, committed and brave. Her arrest and subsequent detainment by Russian officials is an extreme violation of international law and conduct. It is clear that the prospect of a fair trial is highly unlikely given the political climate in Russia surrounding her case. The Russian government should release her immediately, especially given her continued deteriorating health,” said Rep Mike Quigley, member of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus.
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on President Obama’s executive actions to reduce gun violence: “The President today made an emotional appeal for commonsense steps to reduce the tragic epidemic of gun violence in our nation. He is exercising his responsibility by using the executive authority to ensure all gun dealers are licensed no matter where they conduct their business, run background checks for people trying to buy some of the most dangerous weapons, and dedicate more resources to improve our mental health system. “It is also up to Congress to exercise its responsibilities. One step would be passage of the bipartisan bill introduced by Reps. Thompson and King to keep guns out of the wrong hands by ensuring that guns show sales, internet sales, and classified ads do not avoid background checks. “As legislators, we can acknowledge that the problem of gun violence is a complex one, and that there is not one simple solution. But we must stop acting like there are no solutions, and start taking action that can stem the flow of gun violence in our country.” ####
12.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on the passing of Macomb County Treasurer Ted Wahby: “Ted Wahby was an incomparable people's person. Whatever public office he held, for him the test always was how his actions would improve the lives of others. So in our many discussions, he was most proud how as County Treasurer he helped keep thousands with financial stress from losing their homes to foreclosure. And he was especially pleased when we could join him at functions at Mt. Clemens General Hospital, now McLaren Macomb, to see how it serves so splendidly the health needs of tens of thousands. He leaves a legacy of superb public service in its best sense. He will be deeply personally missed by so many of us privileged to be his warm friend.” ####
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Levin today made the following statement on legislation considered by the House on Syrian refugees: “The entire goal of terrorists – in their cowardly acts of violence against innocent and unsuspecting civilians – is to cause death, chaos, bring intense fear and intimidate the global community. We were victims of the most horrendous terrorist attacks on 9-11 and we all joined in feelings of renewed horror as we watched the terrorist attacks in Paris. “We need to ensure that our response is both strong in purpose and effective. We did that after 9-11. We put in place the most stringent refugee resettlement program in the history of our country. “These are the facts: “Refugees are referred to the U.S. program after being screened by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees who first determines if resettlement in a third country is the right solution. “The current U.S. screening process takes between 18-24 months. It involves multiple Federal intelligence, security, and law enforcement agencies, including the National Counterterrorism Center, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Departments of Homeland Security (DHS), State, and Defense, all aimed at ensuring that those admitted do not pose a threat to our country. These safeguards include biometric (fingerprint) to confirm identity, multiple layers of biographical and background checks, and medical screenings. “Specifically, each applicant’s biographical information is checked against the Department of State’s Consular Lookout and Support System – which includes terrorist watchlist information during prescreening. Then, Security Advisory Opinions from the law enforcement and intelligence communities for each applicant is secured. “All of this information helps to inform the lengthy in-person interviews. DHS officers scrutinize the applicant's explanation of individual circumstances to assess whether the applicant meets statutory requirements to qualify as a refugee and that he or she does not present security concerns to the United States. If as a result of the security process, U.S. security agencies cannot verify details of a potential refugee’s story, they are denied. These checks happen before an application is approved and long before a refugee would be able to enter the United States. “And these are the facts on the refugees: “Refugees by definition are the most vulnerable people in our global society. They are fleeing war, violence and persecution. In Syria refuges are either fleeing the violence brought on by the civil war and the violence of President Assad’s army or the terror of ISIS operating from there. “The emphasis for the U.S. program is to admit the most vulnerable – particularly women and children, survivors of violence and torture, and those with severe medical conditions. Since 2011, 2,034 Syrian refugees have been admitted to the United States. A quarter of these refugees are adults over 60. Half are children. Young, single males unattached to families constitute only 2% of the Syrian refugee admissions to date. DHS interviewers receive extensive, Syria-specific training before meeting with refugee applicants. “Each Member of Congress takes very seriously our number-one responsibility to protect the homeland. At times of crisis it is crucial that we act in a bi-partisan fashion. Regrettably that was not the process followed by the Republican Majority. They crafted the legislation before us today on their own and with no hearings, no expert testimony, no Committee markup, and no opportunity to offer amendment. “As a result, the legislation before us sets a partisan course, and is being used mainly as a vehicle to criticize the President’s foreign policy. The current screening system has been working. This bill does not improve it and could scramble up what is working. The legislation would require the FBI to have their own additional and undefined separate screening systems even though they currently fully participate in the stringent process led by the Department of Homeland Security. We created DHS after 9-11 to ensure the most effective system that brought all of the resources of the federal government together to combat terrorism. It does not seem wise to unwind that without thorough review and consideration. “The threat of terrorism brings to all of us and to communities across our country a sense of insecurity. It is our responsibility in Congress to channel those feelings into effective solutions. The legislation before us fails to do so. This bill would disrupt a screening process that is working and, in so doing, would yield the moral high ground that our country must hold at all costs if we are to defeat ISIS. We can and must both fight terrorism and help the victims who seek to escape it." ####
11.07.2015	(Remarks as prepared) Reverend Clergy, Mrs. Poroshenko. It is my honor to join all of you assembled in such large numbers here. Today is a memorable day for keeping memory alive. Today we are lighting the way for those still uninformed about the truth. Today we express our faith that speaking the truth will prevail over the power of those who deny it. The horrors of the Ukrainian famine of 1932-33 resulted from the deliberate effort by the Soviet Union to destroy Ukrainian identity and thwart the battle of the Ukrainian people for their independence and freedom. That battle has taken on added meaning in recent years. Thousands fighting for freedom in the Maidan stirred hearts and minds everywhere where freedom matters. This monument on our nation’s Capital testifies that Americans will not yield in our support for the Ukrainian people, as they persevere in their hard fought efforts to build a free and democratic nation, with a society open and secure for all of its citizens. With this monument, we Americans also signify our determination to speak out and to speak up against genocide. When I was a student, I read a book about the Soviet Union. I was reading a portion supposedly explaining the economic policies and practices of the Soviet Union. In its dealing with the Ukrainian Famine, I came upon words which tried to minimize the loss of life and the horrors of the Famine of 1932-33. I was startled by those callous words. They stayed with me. Decades later, when I came to meet families at home in Michigan who had suffered from Holodomor, those words haunted still more so. So the endeavor ensued – beginning almost 15 years ago – to bring about an American monument to the millions whose lives were lost in the Famine. During this arduous effort some argued that a remembrance of Holodomor should be combined with other events which had occurred in other places. We said no, absolutely no. A genocide if not clearly told can spawn another. The monument to Holodomor, we said, must tell its own tragic story. This monument we unveil today does just that. It is so located that thousands in the Capitol of our nation will pass it every day. Hopefully many will pause to reflect and to vow to remember. This Holodomor monument is so evocatively and creatively rendered that it will perpetually keep alive and honor the memory of the millions lost. So many have joined in this effort--in both governments and in numerous communities in our two nations and beyond. This monument we launch today embodies our deep American commitment to our basic values. For all of us here, wherever we come from, this Monument represents our hopes for victory for our shared values and for our humanity that closely binds us together, both today – and may it be – for all the days ahead. ####
11.06.2015	ROSEVILLE, MI – Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) today announced that he will spend Veterans Week, November 9-13, holding both public events and off-the-record meetings with a variety of community organizations and government agencies that provide services to local veterans. Rep. Levin will also participate in local events honoring veterans and their service. He will meet with veterans and their families to discuss the challenges they face upon returning to civilian life, and to see if they are receiving adequate support services. He will visit with veterans receiving job training resources and students utilizing GI bill benefits, and will also meet privately with local veterans’ service organizations that assist with homelessness prevention and mental health services. “I have heard time and again from veterans that the transition to civilian life is not always smooth. There are services available to veterans in our community, and we must ensure that they are adequate and responsive to local needs. We must also make sure that vets and their families are aware of these opportunities in their community,” said Rep. Levin. “I look forward to hearing from our veterans about what we can do to provide better assistance.” For daily updates, follow #LevinVetsWeek and check Facebook and Rep. Levin’s website.
11.02.2015	WASHINGTON – House Ukraine Caucus Chairs Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Sandy Levin (MI-09), and 18 other Ukraine Caucus Members yesterday sent a bipartisan letter to the Chair and Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee urging the full Committee to hold a hearing investigating the circumstances surrounding the crash of Malaysian Airlines flight MH17. The Dutch Safety Board, conducting its own official investigation, recently released findings on of the crash that implicate a missile launched from a Russian Buk missile system. Russia has blocked attempts by the United Nations to pursue a more complete investigation. “The report makes it clear that the Buk is a Soviet, and later Russian-made, medium range, mobile weapon system. We urge the Committee to examine the circumstances surrounding the crash of flight MH17, with particular attention to communication of Russia-backed rebel groups,” the Members wrote. All 298 people aboard flight MH17 died in the crash. You can read the full text of the letter here.
10.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09), together with 10 other Committee Democrats, today sent a letter to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Acting Administrator Andy Slavitt pressing the agency to finalize codes for advance care planning in the upcoming final 2016 Physician Fee Schedule, which would allow physicians to be reimbursed for these services. Advanced care planning helps patients and their families discuss end-of-life medical care preferences with their providers. “For advance care planning to be successful, it must involve ongoing communication about future care preferences among individuals, their families and caregivers, and their health care providers,” the Members wrote. “We encourage CMS to finalize these codes in the upcoming final 2016 PFS. Giving patients the necessary time to have these complex conversations with providers is an important step in encouraging patients and their families to engage in end-of-life discussions and decisions.” The full letter can be found here. The letter was led by Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Levin, and joined by Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), John Lewis (D-GA), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), John B. Larson (D-CT), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), and Linda SÃ¡nchez (D-CA). ####
10.13.2015	Rep. Levin presents a copy of the record statement commemorating 175 years of Berkley Schools to the school board Monday evening. BERKLEY, MI – U.S. Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) joined the Berkley School Board to commemorate the 175th anniversary of the Berkley School District. Rep. Levin presented the school board with a copy of a statement he made in the official record of the U.S. House of Representatives honoring the district. “The roots of my career in public service were planted in my family’s involvement with Berkley Schools,” said Rep. Levin. “I am proud all four of my children were educated in Berkley. The district helps students excel not only in academics, but also in music, the arts, and other extracurricular activities.” Berkley School District began as a one-room schoolhouse 1840; just three years after Michigan became a state. The district now serves students from pre-kindergarten through 12th grade, and has nine buildings. The high school graduation rate in Berkley Schools is 98 percent. The school board meeting was held Monday evening at Pattengill Elementary School, which was recently recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as a 2015 National Blue Ribbon Schools. Schools across the country receive the award based on overall academic excellence or progress in closing achievement gaps among students. You can read a full copy of Rep. Levin’s record statement here. ####
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued a statement following the conclusion of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade negotiations this week in Atlanta, where United States Trade Representative Michael Froman announced that the 12 TPP countries have reached an agreement: “Progress has been made on important issues, with the outcome on a multitude of issues still requiring deeper scrutiny, and others falling short of the results we seek. Removing tobacco from investor-state dispute settlement is a vital and welcome step in allowing countries to protect their public health. There has also been substantial progress with Vietnam and Malaysia in the areas of worker rights as we seek to ensure they comply with the enforceable standards in the agreement. Unfortunately, there is still no satisfactory plan to ensure that Mexico – a country where economic competition with U.S. workers is the most intense – changes its laws and practices to comply with its obligations in the agreement. Changing NAFTA has been a top priority – we cannot miss this opportunity and hope to rely on a future dispute settlement panel to do so. The Finance Ministers’ plan regarding currency manipulation – an issue with a major impact on U.S. jobs – is also entirely unsatisfactory. “We will need to see the language to understand the full impact of several issues, including the auto rules of origin, Japan automotive market access, investment, environment, state-owned enterprises and agricultural market access. In the vital area of access to medicines, this issue was discussed until the very last hours, and I pressed to ensure access to generic medicines for developing countries, as well as to avoid locking in policies for the United States and other countries that we may one day decide can be improved. During the 90-day notification period, I look forward to an intense period of Congressional scrutiny, as well as the vital period of public release of the agreement’s text. This long-awaited public debate is an important component in evaluating the strengths and weaknesses of this agreement. It will also be important to fully consider the various analyses of the impact of TPP on the U.S. economy and middle class jobs. “Indeed, at the heart of any trade agreement is its impact on jobs and economic growth. But as we have seen during the course of these negotiations, there are new issues that impact the terms of competition, and others that are vital to the integration of the TPP economies. We have to get this agreement right, which is why no one should be surprised if the 90-day period results in additional changes, particularly since many of these issues are the subjects of bi-lateral negotiations. The most important objective is to get the strongest agreement that benefits American workers and the U.S. economy for generations. The role of Congress now is as important as ever.” ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C – A bipartisan group of House lawmakers has written a letter to President Obama calling on the President to include $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Administration’s next budget request to Congress. Forty-six lawmakers from the House of Representatives – 32 Democrats and 14 Republicans – signed the letter. The effort was organized by Representatives Sander Levin (D-MI), David Joyce (R-OH), and Louise Slaughter (D-NY). “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is working. We’re making real progress in cleaning up the Great Lakes,” said Rep. Levin. “Congress and the Obama Administration must continue to work together to make Lakes restoration a priority.” The letter states, “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) is showing real and measurable results. Since the GLRI was launched in 2010, GLRI funds have been used to support over 2500 restoration projects.” The GLRI is an inter-agency program designed to address the most significant problems in the Great Lakes, and works to protect, restore, and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. Jobs, recreation and tourism all depend upon a healthy and flourishing Great Lakes ecosystem. Yet invasive species, toxic pollution, growing dead zones, and beach closures threaten the health and productivity of these irreplaceable bodies of water. First announced in 2009, the GLRI has greatly accelerated efforts to protect and restore the Great Lakes and their tributaries. To date, Congress has provided strong support for the program, authorizing nearly $2 billion total for various projects. Even as Congress continues to grapple with the 2016 budget, which is not expected to be resolved before December, funding for the GLRI appears to be on track to receive an additional $300 million next year. However, there is concern about Great Lakes funding in 2017, especially since the Obama Administration requested just $250 million for GLRI in their last budget request to Congress. This would have meant a 16 percent reduction in Great Lakes funding in 2016, but Great Lakes supporters in the House and Senate have fought any reduction in GLRI funding. The Obama Administration justified its proposed reduction in GLRI funding by suggesting that the program had not spent all the money it had already been given. In their letter to President Obama, lawmakers disputed that point, citing a recent audit by the General Accountability Office (GAO) which found that nearly all the funds made available for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative for fiscal years 2010 through 2014 had been expended. ####
09.29.2015	(Remarks as prepared) There are so many serious issues that this committee could be grappling with today. Issues that could impact families across this country, issues that could draw inspiration from the Pope’s address to Congress just last Thursday. No, today, we are seemingly taking the next step after the Speaker’s announcement on Friday to appease the right-wing of the Republican Conference. Want to avoid a government shutdown? Force the Speaker out. Want to avoid a government shutdown? Attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Want to avoid a government shutdown? Find a new vehicle to defund women’s health care. Today’s markup is not a serious exercise in legislating. Everyone knows the President won’t sign this reconciliation bill. That may be one of the motivations for this bill – pure politics to send a bill to the President that he is sure to veto and be upheld. You know how this could all be avoided? Pass a CR with a combination of Democratic votes. Work with Democrats. Work with the Administration on a bipartisan basis to actually get something done. Do away with the majority of the Majority rule that strangulates bipartisan efforts. This is a waste of time for Members of Congress, particularly as we close in on the end of another fiscal year without a responsible approach to the appropriations needed to keep our government functioning. These budget proposals are a blatant attempt to appeal to the far right, while the majority postpones having to actually govern until December. We ought to be focusing on things that matter to hard working Americans under the jurisdiction of this committee, including financing a long-term highway bill, impacting the TPP negotiations, and reforming our tax system to address income inequality and create good paying jobs in the U.S. Rather than working to keep the government open for a full year and provide security for our economy, Republicans are focused on pushing through these bills that effectively gut the Affordable Care Act and the protections that it provides to workers and families. The Affordable Care Act is working. Since enrollment began in 2013: The uninsured rate in this country has dropped to historic lows – currently just over 11 percent. Millions more have gained critical protections – no more lifetime or annual coverage limits, no more pre-existing condition exclusions. Health care prices are rising at a slower pace than at any time in the past 50 years – benefiting taxpayers and consumers. Tens of thousands of lives, and billions of dollars, have been saved due to a reduction in hospital-acquired conditions, such as infections. Since the passage of the law, the private sector has added 13 million jobs, and we have not seen the rise of a part-time economy as predicted by opponents. The effect of just one provision in this legislation today – repeal of the individual mandate – would increase premiums in the individual market by 20 percent. Fourteen million would lose insurance coverage. The individual mandate ensures there is a balanced risk pool and allows consumers to obtain affordable coverage without being discriminated against because of a preexisting condition, their profession, or their gender. I will stop myself from quoting too much from the Pope’s address to Congress, but there is one line that is apropos for today: “A good political leader always opts to initiate processes rather than possessing spaces.” Today, the Majority is simply possessing space. This Committee, this Congress, the American people deserve better. ###
09.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the Ranking Members of the House Committees on Education and the Workforce, Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and Budget denounced the budget reconciliation language expected to come before their committees in the coming days. Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Budget Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) issued the following joint statement: “The Republicans are marking up this legislation, which amounts to the 61st attempt at repealing the Affordable Care Act, to win votes from recalcitrant Republicans for a clean Continuing Resolution. Rather than working to keep the government open, their focus is on pushing through bills that effectively gut the ACA and the protections it provides to workers and families. “This legislation is nothing more than an irresponsible attempt by the Republican Majority to put politics over people. We see this attempt as insincere and a waste of the time for Members of Congress, particularly as we close in on the end of another fiscal year without a responsible approach to the appropriations needed to keep our government functioning. “We stand ready to work with our colleagues to responsibly improve and strengthen the Affordable Care Act. Unfortunately, this week’s irresponsible action is a distraction from the work we could be doing on a bipartisan basis and shows, once again, that the Republicans are more interested in grandstanding than governing.” ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) today announced that Common Ground has received $200,000 from the Department of Health and Human Services Basic Center Program. The funding will help Common Ground respond to the needs of runaway, homeless and at-risk youth through its Sanctuary program. The funding will help provide the Sanctuary youth shelter with resources to implement innovative practices for therapy treatment. “Common Ground provides critical services to individuals in crisis, and this funding will help ensure those services are more complete,” said Rep. Levin. “With this funding, the Sanctuary youth shelter will be able to better serve at-risk youth in Oakland County.” “The Sanctuary youth shelter has operated since 1974 and is the only youth shelter in Oakland County,” said Heather Rae, President and CEO of Common Ground. “We are thankful for the federal grant award, which covers approximately 20 percent of the funding needed to operate 24 hours a day, 365 days per year.” Common Ground is a nonprofit agency dedicated to helping youths, adults and families in crisis. Common Ground meets basic needs such as food, transportation, shelter, hygiene and clothing. The agency also provides a variety of therapy services for youth and their families, most of which are provided free of charge. All agency programs are accredited by the Council on Accreditation for Rehabilitative Facilities (CARF). ####
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) today released the following statement on His Holiness Pope Francis’ address to Congress: Pope Francis was truly inspiring. His speech – in its words, tone, and his presence – was uplifting and should inspire in each of us to be better individually and in commitment to the common good. His reflections on American cultural heritage and spirit were a unique way for him to call on us to strive higher and achieve more for our nation in addressing major challenges of our time, including the planet’s environment and the needs of multitudes fleeing the ravages of war in search of a secure place for the families to live and prosper. ####
09.23.2015	ROSEVILLE – Rep. Sandy Levin today announced community partners for the DEA National Prescription Drug Take Back Day, occurring on September 26 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Community members can drop off their expired, unused, and unwanted prescription drugs at one of the many participating sites in Oakland and Macomb counties. National Prescription Drug Take Back Day addresses a vital public safety and health issue by provide an opportunity for community members to safety dispose of prescription drugs. Medicines that stay in home cabinets are highly susceptible to misuse and abuse and rates of prescription drug abuse in the U.S. has grown in recent years. The usual method of disposing of unused medicines – flushing them down the toilet or throwing them in the trash – can pose potential safety and health hazards. “Our local community anti-drug coalitions do an effective job during the year and on National Prescription Drug Take Back Day to educate residents about the dangers of prescription drug abuse,” said Rep. Levin. “Properly disposing of unused and expired medicines ensures that they won’t fall into the wrong hands, nor will they pose any harm to the environment. I commend the hard work of our local coalitions, and thank them for their efforts. ” Last September, Americans nationwide turned in 309 tons (over 617,000 pounds) of prescription drugs at nearly 5,500 sites operated by the DEA and more than 4,000 of its state and local law enforcement partners. ###
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed by unanimous consent a resolution that calls for the release of Ukrainian Pilot Nadiya Savchenko. Rep. Sandy Levin, co-chair of the House Ukrainian caucus, introduced H.Res.50, which was cosponsored by 36 other members of Congress. The resolution also condemns the Russian Federation for its illegal imprisonment of Savchenko, and expresses solidarity with the Ukrainian people. “Since her capture, Ms. Savchenko has come to represent the spirit of an independent Ukraine. A Ukraine that is free from interference and eager to embrace the will of its own people, striving towards the rule of law and democracy,” said Rep. Levin. “Her courage and spirit have inspired millions of people around the world. Here at home, the Ukrainian-American community in my home district has followed her case especially closely. Together, we worried for her health when she underwent a lengthy hunger strike earlier in the year. And we also worried for her well-being, as her case suffered repeated and unfair delays. We now call for her release.” Ukrainian pilot Nadiya Savchenko was captured by pro-Russian forces in July 2014 in Eastern Ukraine. Savchenko was then illegally transferred to Russia, and later charged with murder. Savchenko’s trial in a remote region of Russia began today, and independent press access has been severely restricted. A guilty verdict is widely expected. Though denied by Russia, there is little doubt that Savchenko is being held as a political prisoner, punished for her defiance, and used as bargaining tool in Russia’s protracted offense against Ukraine. ####
09.17.2015	(Remarks as prepared) One trillion dollars in unpaid for tax cuts. That’s how much Republicans have proposed adding to our national debt when you add the cost of today’s bills with those considered by this Committee earlier this year. If you stacked up a trillion one-dollar bills, you would get almost one quarter of the way to the moon. This is being proposed at a time when we are reaching the debt ceiling and the Republicans are now proposing that we push the deficit through the roof. This is being proposed at a time when there is uneasy talk about the Republicans once again shutting down the government. This is being proposed at a time when sequestration is threatening to curtail necessary defense expenditures and the percent of GDP being spent on domestic investment is approaching the lowest it’s been. This is being proposed when a desperately needed infrastructure bill remains stuck in a deep Congressional fiscal pothole. Piling up debt may be motivated by appeasing rifts in the Republican Conference. But that is not a defensible reason. Nor is trying to make it easier to pass some version of tax reform, which, like those recently proposed by prominent Republicans, would mainly benefit the very wealthiest at a time of growing income and wealth inequality. So the bills before us alone would add $411 billion to the deficit. By far the largest among them is a permanent extension of bonus depreciation, which costs $281 billion and is not offset. The approach by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to mark up these “extenders” is not only fiscally irresponsible, it also leaves many other provisions behind that are vital to working families and small businesses – including the exclusion for mortgage debt forgiveness, the New Markets Tax Credits, and continuations of the expansions to the Earned Income Tax Credit and refundable portion of the Child Tax Credit. We must not pursue this path of fiscal irresponsibility – flooding our nation with debt while leaving hardworking American families high and dry. ###
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued a statement following President Obama’s remarks at a meeting of the Business Roundtable calling on Republicans in Congress to close the carried interest loophole and improve our economy: “The President is correct that the Republican Majority must make it clear that they will not shut down the government and bring our nation to the brink of default again in the next weeks. The potential damage to our economy is clear. It is also clear that bipartisan agreement grows on the issue of closing the carried interest loophole, with support announced recently from Republican Presidential candidates. “We should act on the bicameral legislation, which is similar to the legislation approved in the House on numerous occasions and supported by the President. Income is income – whether it is earned by a construction worker or a fund manager – and should be taxed the same way. This is fair and equitable and represents the type of revenue necessary to balance our budget and grow our economy.” In June, Rep. Levin and U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) introduced the Carried Interest Fairness Act, legislation that would end the carried interest loophole and ensure that income earned managing other people's money is taxed at the same ordinary income tax rates as that of the vast majority of Americans. The carried interest loophole allows certain investment fund managers – including private equity fund managers – to benefit from a tax loophole that allows them to take advantage of the preferential 20 percent tax long-term capital gains rate on income received as compensation, rather than the ordinary income tax rates of up to 39.6 percent that all other Americans pay. This legislation clarifies that this income is subject to ordinary income tax rates rather than the much lower long-term capital gains rate. The House has passed legislation to address the carried interest loophole on four occasions, the most recent being in 2010, as an amendment to the Senate-passed Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2010. There has been broad support from government officials, economists, investors, and editorial boards for closing the carried interest loophole. Read some of those statements here. ###
09.10.2015	(Remarks as prepared) The inability to govern as defined by the Republican Majority is following the same failed strategy over and over again. When you insist session after session in passing unpaid for permanent tax cuts that are not going anywhere – that’s one thing. But your repeated efforts to put at risk the full faith and credit of the United States is reckless and irresponsible, and has had real consequences. The first bill before us today would signal that the United States does not plan to pay all of our bills on time and in full. It says that once the debt limit prevents us from paying all our bills, Treasury must pay our obligations to China and other foreign bondholders first – before American troops, before our disabled veterans, before researchers searching for cures for deadly diseases, before providers who treat Medicare patients, and before small businesses holding contract obligations from the United States. Let me be clear – this is not a bill to address the budget deficit or reduce our national debt. It is a bill setting forth a plan for not paying for obligations that Congress has already authorized. This bill is reckless and indefensible. Indeed, according to the Treasury Council of Inspectors General on Financial Oversight, prioritizing some legal obligations over others in this way would be very difficult or perhaps even impossible. Treasury’s computer systems, they wrote in a letter to Congress, are designed to “make each payment in the order it comes due.” Even if such prioritization were possible, it would put China and other foreign bondholders before our own citizens at a time when they can least afford it. Some of those potentially impacted by default would be military service members – including those currently deployed; doctors and hospitals that wouldn’t receive Medicare payments; and hardworking Americans who wouldn’t get payments for school lunches, veterans’ benefits, or student loans. If Republicans proceed on this course, it will be the third time they have done serious damage to our economy by threatening to default. When the Republicans brought us to the brink of default four years ago, the stock market plunged and S&P downgraded our credit rating for the first time ever. In 2013, Republican default threats and the government shutdown cost us 120,000 jobs and slowed GDP growth just as the economic recovery was taking hold. The GAO estimated that the 2013 impasse cost the U.S. around $70 million due to an increase in the cost of borrowing. It also increased the borrowing costs for businesses and for individuals with home mortgages, car loans, and other debt. GAO also noted that it cost us credibility – for the first time in our history, investors concluded that short-term Treasury bonds might be too risky to buy, because of the risk of default. That should not have come as a surprise. MIT economist Simon Johnson said in a hearing in this very room that if the U.S. were to default on any obligation, it would have a catastrophic effect on the credit market in the U.S. and much of the world. Without access to credit, businesses would close their doors, unemployment would skyrocket, and our GDP would decline sharply. Secretary Lew wrote in a letter to Speaker Boehner in 2013 that “any plan to prioritize some payments over others is simply default by another name.” We should be acting responsibly to make sure that the United States continues to pay all its bills, on time and in full. We should not even be considering a bill that would prepare for default, damaging the entire global economy and putting foreign investors above hardworking Americans. ###
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sandy Levin today is traveling with President Obama and Dr. Jill Biden to Macomb Community College (MCC), located in his congressional district. “Since the President’s last visit in 2009, and because of a number of his policies, the economic outlook in our state and nation is improving. One thing has remained constant throughout – the effectiveness of Macomb Community College in serving our workers, our communities, and our businesses. “I have been pleased to work with MCC on programs and grants over the years to assist workers in the defense, energy, and advanced manufacturing industries, as they continue to lead the way with innovative programs that ensure workers have the proper skills to adapt to the changing economy,” said Rep. Levin. Rep. Levin also welcomed the recent announcement that MCC was awarded $3.9 million to fund the Michigan Apprenticeship Program Plus (MAP+). The project will target apprenticeship pathways in information technology and manufacturing occupations. In 2013, Rep. Levin closely worked with MCC on their successful Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training program grant application. MCC led a consortium of community colleges, and the consortium was awarded a total of $24.9 million to promote skills development and employment opportunities in industries including advanced manufacturing, transportation, and health care. In 2009 and 2012, MCC won $2.8 million and $2 million respectively in National Science Foundation Advanced Technology Education Center grants to first establish and operate, and then expand the Center for Advanced Automotive Technology (CAAT). CAAT advances the preparation of student for careers in new and development advanced automotive technologies. ####
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sandy Levin today announced that the Center Line Public Safety Department has been awarded an Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) for $146,063 from the Department of Homeland Security. The funding, which is designated for Operations and Safety, will provide much needed support to the Public Safety Department in the form of new equipment including turn out gear, hand held radios, and a fire hose. “I am so pleased to see this funding awarded to Center Line, so the firefighters putting their lives on the line daily to protect residents, will have the new equipment and safety they deserve. This is especially meaningful coming after the community recently gathered to pay tribute to former Mayor David Hanselman,” said Rep. Levin. “This grant is coming at a critical time for our community. The vital equipment we will be able to purchase will ensure that our firefighters will continue to effectively keep our residents safe,” said Director of Public Safety Paul Myszenski. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since 2001, the AFG has provided about $6.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. ####
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), today announced that Macomb County Community Services Agency (MCCSA) was awarded $6.9 million for Head Start/Early Head Start to help promote school readiness for young children throughout Macomb County. Michigan serves more than 32,000 children and their families in Head Start programs and this award will help MCCSA better reach the more than 1,100 children enrolled in locations throughout the county. “There are far too many children without access to quality preschool. This grant will help ensure that even more children can access to the critical services provided by Head Start and Early Head Start,” said Rep. Levin. "As a product of Macomb County's Head Start program, I am excited about the many doors opening for our children and families. The program's success should be shared by everyone, because these are all of our children,” said MCCSA Director Rhonda Powell. Head Start is a federal program that promotes the school readiness of children ages birth to 5 from low-income families by enhancing their cognitive, social and emotional development. Early Head Start serves infants, toddlers, pregnant women and their families who have incomes below the federal poverty level. Head Start emphasizes the role of parents as their child’s first and most important teacher. The program provides comprehensive services to enrolled children and their families, and may include health, nutrition, other services determined to be necessary by family needs assessments in addition to education and cognitive development services. Head Start services are designed to be responsive to each child and family’s ethnic, cultural, and linguistic heritage. MCCSA is a Community Action Agency that provides services throughout Macomb County. MCCSA administers federal, state, local and private funds to achieve its mission of diminishing the causes and effects of poverty. MCCSA programs include Head Start/Early Head Start, weatherization, tax preparation, emergency services, and senior services. ####
08.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement following an announcement by China’s central bank that it devalued its currency: “Given China’s history of devaluing its currency to gain an unfair export advantage, today’s actions by the Chinese government raise serious concerns. Although some analysts have suggested that today’s move is a step in the direction of a truly market-based exchange rate for the Chinese RMB, it is important to note that in many other respects, China is increasingly intervening in its stock market and other markets. There is reason to be skeptical of believing that the largest devaluation of the Chinese currency in over two decades is merely about moving to a market-based exchange rate. Therefore, we need to continue to review the facts underlying today’s devaluation and will be closely watching the actions taken by the Chinese government in the coming days and weeks ahead. “In view of suggestions that additional countries like China might become party to a TPP agreement, and that we need to use TPP as a key opportunity to write the rules of trade for the 21st Century, this action highlights the need to include a strong and effective obligation on currency manipulation in TPP, and to include a provision to impose countervailing duties to address currency manipulation in the Customs legislation that is expected to be negotiated in a House-Senate conference in September.” ###
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement regarding his support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon (read a PDF version here): “Consideration of the Iran nuclear agreement represents one of the most challenging and crucial foreign policy decisions for me during 33 years in Congress. Iran represents a real danger – exponentially more so if it has a nuclear weapon. “After earlier efforts to negotiate by the Bush Administration failed and Iran dramatically increased its number of centrifuges and nuclear material, it was critical that Iran's nuclear program not result in Iran's possession of a nuclear weapon. I actively participated in increasing U.S. sanctions against Iran. These sanctions were strengthened by their multi-lateral structure and broad adoption, and they helped produce the framework agreement and the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). “Currently, Iran is only two months away from the ability to produce enough material for one nuclear weapon. The restrictions in the Agreement provide the world with a year to respond if Iran broke out of the Agreement and moved toward acquiring the material for a bomb. “The Agreement requires Iran to reduce its stockpile of enriched uranium by 97 percent and refrain from enrichment above a 3.67 percent level for 15 years. It cuts the number of installed centrifuges allowed by two thirds, while retaining only older model centrifuges. The Agreement also requires Iran to render its heavy water reactor inoperable, denying them a source of weapon-grade plutonium. It requires Iran to convert the Fordow enrichment facility into a technology center and places limits on research and development. It allows the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to monitor the uranium supply chain for at least two decades. “Requirements are meaningless if they are not enforced and if violations cannot be detected. The JCPOA includes enhanced resources for the IAEA, including over 100 inspectors, and is buttressed by major U.S. and EU surveillance capabilities. As to all declared sites (those with known nuclear programs) there is continuous access. If there is a suspicion of activities of Iran's obligations at any other location, the standard is to gain access with 24 hours notice. If there is a dispute about access, there is a process that provides access within 24 days. In our many briefings, Energy Secretary Moniz, a respected nuclear physicist, has been persuasive that any activities involving nuclear materials would leave traces detectable for at least that long. “Effective enforcement also requires that the multi-lateral sanctions currently in place can be quickly reinstated if Iran violates the Agreement. The JCPOA contains a method to do so at the United Nations that could not by stymied by a veto from China or Russia. “In my discussions with opponents of the Agreement, they have urged that Iran may well not cheat the first 10 or 15 years because Iran's main purpose is to become the dominant power in the Middle East and that sanctions relief during this period would provide Iran the funds to finance further terrorist actions. In this regard, the U.S. retains its rights to take a full range of actions to prevent shipments of arms or missiles to Hezbollah or other terrorist groups, as it does to take other actions against aggressions elsewhere, unrestricted by the JCPOA. “It is also argued that if the Agreement is rejected by the Congress there would remain sufficient sanctions to deter Iran from a nuclear weapon and they could be increased. The much greater likelihood is that the sanctions regime would quickly fall apart. Sanctions likely would not be continued even by our closest allies and the U.S. would be isolated trying to enforce our unilateral sanctions as to Iran's banking and oil sectors. “If Iran broke out of the Agreement and proceeded to build a nuclear weapon, the U.S. and its allies would retain all options to stop it, including the military option. If the U.S. rejects the Agreement, support from even our best allies if we move to the military option would be less likely. As a result, the threat of military action would become less effective a deterrent to Iran’s building a nuclear bomb. That is another reason I believe the Agreement offers the best option to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. “We must also act to bolster the security of our ally Israel. We should promptly conclude the next ten-year Memorandum of Understanding on Foreign Military Financing and accelerate the co-development by the U.S. and Israel of the Arrow-3 and David's Sling missile defense systems and increase funding for Israel's life-saving missile defense, the successful Iron Dome system. “Each Member of Congress will bring both private and public life experiences to address this difficult issue. “I along with my brother and late sister when we were in our teens experienced with our parents great personal joy when President Truman announced U.S. recognition of Israel. It was something that we could take hold of amidst the unfolding horrors of the years before. Israel's security has and always will be of critical importance to me and our country. I believe that Israel, the region, and the world are far more secure if Iran does not move toward possession of a nuclear weapon. I believe the Agreement is the best way to achieve that. “In my view, the only anchors in public life are to dig deeply into the facts and consult broadly and then to say what you believe.” ####
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement after Malaysia was upgraded from Tier 3 to the Tier 2 Watch List in the U.S. Department of State’s 2015 Trafficking in Persons Report: “The Administration’s upgrade of Malaysia in the human trafficking report – without evidence of significant changes on the ground – is extremely concerning. The Administration is negotiating a trade agreement that obligates countries to adhere to the International Labor Organization’s basic standards on worker rights, which bans forced labor. Malaysia’s human trafficking problem – which is a forced labor problem – puts it in direct violation of these provisions in the TPP agreement. Instead of paving the way for Malaysia’s participation in TPP, we should be working on actions that Malaysia should be taking to come into compliance with these standards. That is why we have insisted that our trading partners come into compliance with these standards before Congress votes. Reports and promises of progress are not enough – real changes must be made on the ground.” Earlier this month, Rep. Levin helped lead a bipartisan group of 160 Members of Congress in calling on U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry to not upgrade Malaysia to the Tier 2 Watch List in the TIP Report, citing the country’s failure to make substantive improvements in combating human trafficking. BACKGROUND From 2010 to 2013, Malaysia was included on the Tier 2 Watch List, but was automatically downgraded to Tier 3 in the 2014 TIP Report because of the country’s consistent failure to make substantive progress in addressing its trafficking challenges, and also to comply with the minimum standards set out in the Trafficking Victims Protection Act. The 2014 TIP Report found Malaysia’s foreign workforce was particularly vulnerable to forced labor, and noted how institutional failures – such as a lack of enforcement of Malaysian laws to crack down on trafficking – have exacerbated these issues. ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – All 15 House Ways and Means Committee Democratic Members today sent a letter to U.S. Social Security Administration (SSA) Commissioner Carolyn W. Colvin urging the Commissioner to notify same-sex spouses, widows, widowers, and their children of their eligibility to receive Social Security benefits. Following the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges last month – which ruled that same-sex couples have a constitutional right to marry – all Ways and Means Committee Democratic Members called on SSA to work with Congress and effectively use its resources to make sure all eligible individuals and families have the information they need to apply for their full Social Security benefits. In their letter, the Members also requested SSA to put together an action plan to better reach Americans who may not be receiving the full benefits they have earned. Since the June 2013 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in United States v. Windsor, which increased Social Security benefit opportunities for same-sex families, only about 4,500 individuals have applied for new or updated benefits, according to SSA. “The recent Supreme Court decision affirmed what we already know – we are all equal and should be able to marry whom we love… In the near term, we urge you to use all the tools at your disposal to get the word out to families that they must apply to receive their full Social Security benefits,” the Members wrote. “Over the next 60 days, we ask that you develop an action plan that will result in measurable progress in reaching those Americans who are losing out on their full earned Social Security benefits.” The full letter can be found here. ###
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Rep. Sandy Levin (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee joined Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, Rep. Steve Israel (D-NY), Chair of the House Democratic Policy and Communications Committee, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Ranking Member of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee to introduce the GROW AMERICA Act. The legislation would provide six years of expanded transportation funding, and crack down on corporate tax inversions to help pay for that investment. The bill would authorize President Obama’s six-year transportation plan, providing $478 billion over that period to rebuild America’s infrastructure – a major increase over current levels that would add nearly 2 million jobs to our economy. It includes a significant down payment on that investment by tightening restrictions on corporate tax inversions, limiting the ability of American companies to avoid U.S. taxation by moving their mailing address overseas. This raises $41 billion and, combined with existing highway trust fund revenues, would pay for the first two years of this legislation. The $41 billion would be raised through legislation introduced earlier this year by Rep. Levin. “Increasing funding for our nation’s infrastructure by closing a tax loophole that allows corporations to avoid paying their fair share of taxes by moving their headquarters overseas is a true win-win,” said Rep. Levin. “Americans deserve a long-term solution from this Congress that provides certainty and addresses our nation’s overwhelming infrastructure needs.” To read a fact sheet on the legislation, click here. ####
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement following a report by Reuters that the U.S. Trafficking in Persons report will upgrade Malaysia to Tier 2 from Tier 3: Reports of a change in Malaysia’s human trafficking ranking are deeply disturbing. I will thoroughly review the rationale in the report when it is released. It is crucial that consideration of Malaysia’s record on human trafficking reflect the realities on the ground and not a glossing over of those realities to assist Malaysia’s participation in TPP. It is essential that expanded trade be based on standards and their implementation, not their evasion or erosion. As reflected in last year’s Trafficking in Persons report, there are several million migrant workers in Malaysia. Large numbers of them ‘are exploited and subjected to practices indicative of forced labor,’ such as workers on agricultural plantations, at construction sites, in textile factories, and in homes as domestic workers, according to the report. “The Administration must focus its efforts on getting Malaysia to fully comply with international labor standards, because the human trafficking problem includes a forced labor problem, which is prohibited by the labor chapter envisioned for TPP. That’s why it is so important that we get TPP right, ensuring that Malaysia and other countries like Mexico and Vietnam correct their immense and deeply troubling worker rights deficiencies before Congress votes.” ###
07.09.2015	Today’s hearing is on work incentives for Americans who qualify for Social Security because of a severe disability, illness, or injury. Nine million Americans and two million of their spouses and children currently receive Social Security Disability Insurance. All Americans pay into SSDI so that one accident or one diagnosis doesn’t mean a lifetime of poverty. In order to qualify for SSDI, disabled workers have to prove that their condition is so severe that it prevents them from working at a self-supporting level and will last for more than a year. They must also provide evidence to the Social Security Administration that they’ve worked long enough to qualify for their benefits. On average, SSDI recipients worked and paid into the program for 22 years before receiving benefits. Despite the severity of their impairments, some of these Americans with disabilities continue to make efforts to work. And we should continue to support their efforts, while not harming those who cannot. Congress has created special benefit rules in Social Security called “work incentives.” These rules are designed to encourage work by giving individuals time to test whether they can work at a self-supporting level before their benefits end. Before Congress enacted these work incentive rules, many disabled Americans were afraid to even try to return to work, fearing they could lose their Social Security just for trying. In addition to these “work incentives,” Congress has also created a wide range of other programs designed to assist disabled Americans to work. The Ticket-to-Work program, enacted on a bipartisan basis in 1999, provides services to help Social Security beneficiaries understand the impact of work on their benefits, and get the employment support they need to be successful. The federal-state vocational rehabilitation program, which is not in our Committee jurisdiction, helps people retrain for new work, if they can’t do their old job. Even with the supportive services, vocational retraining, and special benefit rules, only about 15 percent of beneficiaries have any earnings within five years of qualifying for Social Security. Many attempt work, but are not able to sustain a job because of their impairment. Of those who do, most are only able to work part-time or for very low pay, earning less than $750 a month. Under current law, those individuals are able to keep all of their earnings to help support themselves. A very small fraction – about 4 percent, mostly younger workers – are able to earn enough to work their way off Social Security. As our Committee reviews the Social Security Disability Insurance program and considers improvements, it is important that we know the full facts and not rely on anecdotes. We should do so with an understanding that all of us support combating fraud. Indeed, Mr. Becerra and Mr. Johnson have similar proposals, although a key difference is whether we provide the resources needed to make the proposals work. And we should do so understanding the power of work – people want to work both because of the earnings and the dignity that comes with having a job. Social Security Disability Insurance plays a vital role in the lives of millions – I hope we can work together to make sure it continues to be there for all Americans. ###
06.17.2015	(Remarks as Prepared) Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you know, Democrats on this Committee have been calling for this Committee to consider the important issue of long-term financing of the Highway Trust Fund for years. Three letters and two Congresses later, here we are. In just 6 short weeks, the trust fund’s spending authority will expire and the balances will run out. The schedule of short-term extensions – 24 to date – has done a tremendous disservice to our nation’s infrastructure needs. The facts are startling. The American Society of Civil Engineers gave our national infrastructure a “D+” grade. My home state of Michigan was given a “D”. There are bridges in terrible condition – 145,000 of them total – in every one of our districts. A quarter of them are more than 60 years old. Two-thirds of our highways are in poor or mediocre condition. And if commerce and safety were not enough of a concern, our economy suffers as well. A May 2014 economic report from Standard and Poor’s Rating Agency notes that, “each dollar of infrastructure spending, if allocated wisely, translates into much more than that in terms of economic growth.” The report further finds that: A $1.3 billion investment in 2015 would likely add 29,000 jobs to the construction sector, and would add even more jobs to other infrastructure-related industries. That investment would also likely add $2 billion to real economic growth and reduce the federal deficit by $200 million for that year. After an initial increase in aggregate demand, the economy’s productive capacity and output typically increase once the infrastructure is built and absorbed into the economy. That means increased growth and more job gains long after the project ended. Inaction here is not an option. Indeed, we should seize this opportunity. This is an issue that touches the daily lives of our constituents, and the economic future of our nation. This cannot be done on a partisan basis. A long-term infrastructure bill must be a product of our coming together – Mr. Chairman, you and I and all of us on the Committee. All options should be on the table, except doing nothing. ###
06.02.2015	Last week, I had the opportunity to visit McLaren Health System in my district, and I was impressed by the innovative work going on to provide quality care, lower costs, and meet high standards. It was a good reminder of how important it is for us to establish federal policies that encourage and reinforce reform efforts. Today, we do so when it comes to the fully bipartisan bills that we are set to consider. For example, the six bills related to Medicare Advantage demonstrate that our Committee can collaborate in a bipartisan manner, incorporating stakeholder feedback and technical advice to produce thoughtful legislation. These bills contain important member priorities from both sides of the aisle designed to help Medicare beneficiaries and increase plan transparency. Vern Buchanan and Charlie Rangel, and Energy and Commerce member Diane Blackburn, introduced legislation to delay CMS’ authority to terminate Medicare Advantage contracts for plans failing to achieve minimum quality ratings based only upon the STARS rating systems. This delay would provide us with time to weigh the effects of socioeconomic status and complex cases on quality payment programs in Medicare, including the STARS rating. The Value Based Insurance Design bill, championed by Diane Black and Earl Blumenauer, would establish a demonstration program to incentivize high-value services. There’s a bill that will allow CMS to evaluate and consider the risk adjustment methodology, to ensure we are appropriately accounting for individuals with multiple chronic illnesses, which Earl Blumenauer and Diane Black worked hard to bring together. And we have a bill to promote transparency and provide critical information on Medicare enrollment for policy makers and researchers authored by Ron Kind and Mike Kelly, as well as the bill authored by Kevin Brady and Mike Thompson to extend the time period for comment on proposed Medicare Advantage payment changes to conform with the time period for commenting on other major rules. Unfortunately, we are also considering legislation that is not only more controversial but would undo two important components of ACA. Cost containment was an important feature of the ACA, and reform is having an impact. Medicare growth is at a historic low. We certainly had a healthy amount of debate about the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) on our side of the aisle when the ACA was being drafted. We understood that there needed to be a backstop – a mechanism to develop further proposals to reduce Medicare spending – contained within reform. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projects that Medicare growth rates will remain beneath the IPAB triggers until at least 2022. This bill would add $7 billion to the deficit over the next 10 years without a plan by the Majority to pay for it. Even more consequential is the bill to repeal the medical device tax established in the ACA. Doing so would increase the deficit by $26 billion over the next 10 years. And again, the Majority has no plan to replace that revenue. The ACA was fully paid for in part because the industries that would benefit from expanded health insurance coverage agreed to increased revenues from their sectors. The Association that represents the medical device community stood with the President in supporting the ACA and communicated with Congress at the time their support for their role in contributing to the ACA. The medical device tax applies to both domestic sales and imports, so there is no competitive disadvantage to U.S. companies. A recent Ernst and Young analysis found that the medical device industry’s revenue increased by $8 billion in the year the tax took effect, R&D spending has increased by 6 percent industry-wide, and employment in the medical device industry increased by 23,500. Clearly, this bill reflects the Majority’s objective to unravel the ACA. And, it would let one sector out of its commitment to contribute to overall reform, which was predicated on increasing demand for its products. This creates a dangerous precedent for other sectors, especially with no plan to replace that revenue. Erin Richardson of the Democratic staff is leaving the Committee this month and I want to acknowledge her talented work for the Committee during her tenure. In addition to ACA, Erin was the lead staffer on the SGR reforms and the post-acute care reforms. She has real accomplishments to point to and she should be very proud of the role she has played in health policy and the positive impact her work has had on the lives of millions of Americans. I am confident that she will continue her efforts, but we will miss her here in the Committee. I want to thank her for her service. ###
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today following the Senate procedural vote to block consideration of “fast-track” legislation: TPA is facing opposition today because concerns about TPP have been ignored and not enough has been done to build broad bipartisan support for the potential agreement – and for U.S. trade policy. Under these circumstances, it is inevitable that members of Congress do not want to give up their leverage to improve negotiations. This opposition results from the persistent ignoring of the problem of currency manipulation, among many other issues.” ###
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) spoke this morning at Politico’s Morning Money breakfast on global trade, “fast-track” legislation, and the importance of getting the substance of the Trans-Pacific Partnership right. Watch the full video below: Here are some highlights: On Hatch-Wyden-Ryan TPA bill: The negotiating objectives in TPA now are very vague. Take currency – essentially it’s mush, it doesn’t say anything. And that’s true of so many other provisions. Take worker rights – it simply repeats May 10th, which I authored with Charlie Rangel – it doesn’t address the key issues we have with Vietnam and Mexico. The same for agriculture – the negotiating objective is to reduce or eliminate tariffs. That doesn’t really say anything. Japan’s already agreed it will reduce tariffs – the question is how much will they eliminate? And how much will they reduce? And those are unsettled. In some cases we have objections to the way it’s going. When it comes to currency and a handful of other things, it’s just so vague. … I say to everybody – name me a single negotiating objective in this TPA that is meaningful. A single one. Paul Ryan and Ted Cruz said that we ‘can’t just take the administration’s word that it will drive a hard bargain.’ Therefore, they have to be held accountable in TPA. But their TPA doesn’t set out instructions for a clear path. It isn’t keeping the Administration’s feet to the fire. On argument that we need TPA for other countries to put best offer on table: Senator Hatch said that you need TPA to get the other countries to come forth. The problem is, if we pass TPA the way it’s now framed, I think it’s going to reduce the incentives of other countries to come forth. For example, that’s going to be true with worker rights with Mexico and Vietnam. I think it’s going to be true with SOEs and Signapore and Vietnam. Those SOEs compete with our small businesses. And we need to make sure that other countries don’t finance their SOEs so there’s an unlevel playing field. On wanting to support TPP: I’ve been working for years to shape trade. To make sure that it’s on the right path. I favor TPP. But it has to be the right TPP. I favor having instructions that lay down very clearly what needs to be done. Not lose our leverage to help make that happen. Because at the end – yes or no – that gives us no leverage. … And that was the basis of our substitute, and they didn’t even allow us a vote on it. … We want to participate in putting together the right TPP. And my goal has always been to get, if not the majority of Democrats, a very substantial number to have a bipartisan basis for a vote on trade. We’re not there. We need to get there. On the need for currency language: There needs to be an understanding of what currency is all about. When Japan manipulated their currency, and then China, we lost one to five million jobs. These were middle class jobs. And all of this discussion about trade misses the point. We need our exports expanded, but we also need to look at the impact of trade on jobs in this country. We can’t duck this issue. On transparency: We worked hard to get the Administration to open up the process even to members of Congress. Some months ago, members of Congress weren’t even able to see the full text and the offers of the other countries. Now the Administration has changed that. We talked a few weeks ago with the Administration – we said, look, we’re going to be gone for a couple of weeks, can our staff that has security clearance see the drafts? And they said ‘no.’ So we need to open up this process. No one is saying that at every single point, every single thing has to be made public. But Congress needs to be a full partner. And what this TPA does is essentially put Congress in the back seat. On opening up Japan’s historically closed market: Clearly trade has been one of the reasons for wage stagnation in this country. It’s not the only reason. Globalization is here to stay, that’s one of the reasons. Innovation is another reason. Going back to currency manipulation – most of the lost jobs have been middle class jobs. Take the auto industry – Japan’s had a one-way street. We’ve been insisting that the Administration tell us how they’re going to change that. And right now, the language in TPA on autos in Japan is vague. We’ve been saying to the Administration – tell us precisely how you’re going to work it out with Japan, so if our tariffs go down, how are we going to be sure that our products can be sold in Japan? So for middle and small businesses, like the automotive and industrial sector, we have to get this agreement right. We have to be sure that they’re going to really open up their markets. On Democrats’ involvement in crafting the TPA bill: The reality is, early on, we presented the same ideas that are in the substitute. We spelled out where we thought this process and the substance should go. And the response we got from the Republicans was that there was no interest in addressing these issues. There just wasn’t an ability to get them to focus on what this is really all about for the people of this country, for the businesses of this country, and for workers in this country. ###
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan today ruled that the substitute to the TPA bill offered by Ranking Member Levin could not be voted on in Ways and Means on the grounds that the Rules Committee has jurisdiction over the fast-track process and is outside of the Ways and Means Committee jurisdiction. That’s despite the fact that the TPA bill offered by Chairman Ryan being marked up today in Ways and Means has the same joint jurisdiction as the Levin substitute. The ruling, which asserts that the Ways and Committee’s jurisdiction on TPA only relates to the trade aspects of the legislation, comes even as the Rules Committee is prepared to waive its jurisdiction over the bill – forgoing a vote before the TPA bill reaches the floor and preventing any ability to amend the fast-track process put forward in the Wyden-Hatch-Ryan TPA bill. There is precedent for a Ways and Means vote on a TPA substitute that also amends a bill’s fast-track process, as the Committee allowed a vote on Ranking Member Charles B. Rangel’s TPA substitute in October 2001. The TPA substitute offered today by Ranking Member Levin – the Right Track for TPP Act of 2015 – would not only include specific negotiating instructions on all of the major outstanding issues but also establish a TPP Advisory Group that must certify that the President has followed the negotiating instructions and adequately consulted with Congress. The Hatch-Wyden-Ryan bill leaves the certification of the negotiating objectives up to the Obama administration. “The two TPA approaches before us today have the same joint jurisdiction. Republicans are blocking a vote on a substitute that would give Congress – not the administration – the authority to decide whether the administration has adhered to the negotiating instructions,” said Ranking Member Levin. “The Hatch-Wyden-Ryan bill cedes the authority to the administration and this decision blocks any effort to change that.” A summary of the substitute offered by Ranking Member Levin is available here. The full text of the substitute is here. The Right Track for TPP Act: 1. Includes specific negotiating instructions on all of the major outstanding issues in the TPP negotiations. 2. Does not provide for expedited consideration unless and until bipartisan groups of House and Senate trade advisors determine that the instructions were followed. 3. Has Congress write the consultation procedures, including what negotiating texts must be shared with Congress and stakeholders. 4. Includes two useable mechanisms to enable Congress to remove expedited consideration where necessary. ###
04.23.2015	Our goal – for the American people and U.S. businesses – is a TPP trade agreement that contributes to economic growth, sets high standards, and is sensitive to the needs of the developing and developed countries involved in the negotiations. Unfortunately, the negotiations are not on the right track. In some areas we don’t know where USTR is headed and in others we don’t like where they are. Before we turn over our Congressional leverage, I believe we need to ensure the negotiations are headed in the right direction. As I said yesterday, you can’t get a good deal if you are not seeking the right things. The Hatch-Wyden-Ryan TPA does nothing to change the content of TPP. The negotiating objectives are too vague and often out of touch with where the negotiations currently stand. We are putting forward a substitute today that will take a different approach. It will focus in on only TPP since that is the negotiation our Administration hopes to soon close. Instead of vague negotiating objectives that only serve to suggest that the details of TPP don’t matter, our substitute would include specific negotiating instructions – I stress the word instructions – that the administration would have to follow. Instead of enabling the administration itself to certify that it has met the negotiating objectives – which is what the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan bill does – our substitute would create an advisory body that would have sign off on whether the negotiating instructions had been adhered to. Why does this matter? Because on issue after issue, our negotiators are either not asking for the right things or are not willing to share what they are asking for. On currency manipulation, which has cost America’s middle class millions of jobs, we should ensure that the Trans-Pacific Partnership includes an obligation that our negotiating partners don’t manipulate their currencies, as Japan did in the 1990s and China has in the last decade. The Democratic substitute does that. On worker rights, we must not just include core labor standards in the TPP, we must ensure that countries like Vietnam and Mexico (as well as Malaysia and Brunei) bring their laws into those standards. The Democratic substitute does that. On the environment, we cannot simply list the seven multilateral environmental agreements from the May 10 Agreement, an approach that is both inconsistent with that taken in TPP and obsolete. Or fail to address whether or how climate change issues should be handled in TPP, an issue raised by other countries in the negotiations. On investment, the negotiating objective cannot merely be the same as it was 12 years ago, before we experienced an exponential growth in concerns and a proliferation of cases. And on autos, we cannot merely request that TPP “expand competitive market opportunities for exports of goods,” without any guidance on how to truly open the historically closed Japanese automotive market. The list goes on and on -- from rules of origin to agriculture to tobacco control measures to state-owned enterprises – with the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan bill falling fall short. In every case, the Democratic substitute addresses those shortfalls. Right now on so many unresolved issues our negotiators are not seeking the strongest outcome. It is the responsibility of Congress to ensure that they do. ###
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) plans to offer a substitute to the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan TPA bill at Thursday’s Ways and Means markup in an effort to put the Trans-Pacific Partnership on the right track. The Right Track for TPP Act of 2015, which Rep. Levin will offer as an amendment, includes specific negotiating instructions on all of the major outstanding issues and establishes a TPP Advisory Group that must certify that the President has followed the negotiating instructions and adequately consulted with Congress. Ways and Means Democrats will also put forward as an amendment on Thursday a package of trade enforcement and competitiveness provisions, and additional specific amendments. A summary of the substitute is available here. The full text of the substitute is here. “TPP is too important to leave so many key issues outstanding or needing to be improved and essentially leave out a meaningful role for Congress, which is what the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan TPA bill does,” said Rep. Levin. “This alternative puts the TPP negotiations on the right track, providing a path forward to an agreement that will garner broad, bipartisan support in Congress.” The Right Track for TPP Act: 1. Includes specific negotiating instructions on all of the major outstanding issues in the TPP negotiations. 2. Does not provide for expedited consideration unless and until bipartisan groups of House and Senate trade advisors determine that the instructions were followed. 3. Has Congress write the consultation procedures, including what negotiating texts must be shared with Congress and stakeholders. 4. Includes two useable mechanisms to enable Congress to remove expedited consideration where necessary. ###
04.18.2015	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement regarding the passing of A. Alfred Taubman: Al Taubman impacted the well-being of millions who never met him because of his unwavering support for the health and education needs of all Americans. He earned great wealth but never forgot his roots. He reached the top but maintained compassion for the underdog. He could be very blunt but even more sensitive about the feelings of others. He was much beloved by all of us privileged to know him over many years." ####
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today responded to the House-Senate introduction of TPA legislation by releasing a document detailing how the bill falls short. It can be found here. Unfortunately, the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan Trade Promotion Authority does not move us toward a stronger TPP agreement that will garner broad, bipartisan support in Congress,” Rep. Levin said in the document. “TPP is not where it needs to be right now, and Hatch-Wyden-Ryan does nothing to change that. On all of the major issues in the negotiations, the negotiating objectives are obsolete or woefully inadequate. We can’t expect to get the best deal if we are not asking for the right things. The Hatch-Wyden-Ryan TPA gives up Congressional leverage at the exact wrong time. Instead of pressing USTR to get a better agreement or signaling to our negotiating partners that Congress will only accept a strong agreement, the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan TPA puts Congress in the back seat and greases the skids for an up-or-down vote after the fact. Real Congressional power is not at the end of the process, it is right now when the critical outstanding issues are being negotiated.” ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the leaders of the U.S. Senate Finance and House Ways and Means Committees announced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to help advance America’s trade priorities and better facilitate U.S. trade with developing countries. The AGOA Extension and Enhancement Act of 2015 (bill summary) introduced by Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and Ranking Member Ron Wyden (R-Ore.), along with House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-Mich.) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles B. Rangel, would renew both the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) and the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) and provide continued trade benefits for Haiti. Both the Senate Finance and House Ways and Means Committees have jurisdiction over international trade policy. “Promoting growth in developing countries has been a critical component of U.S. trade policy for 30 years. GSP has been the cornerstone of that policy, and its renewal is both welcome and long overdue,” said Levin. “Our special programs for Africa and Haiti are critical to providing their workers and businesses with meaningful market access opportunities that will enhance investment and job creation.” “Africa is booming. We are proud that AGOA helped to make it possible,” said Rangel. “Renewing this vital program as soon as possible will not only encourage job growth and business opportunities there, but also ensure that the United States remains a lead partner in promoting further developments. We hope our bill will pave a way for Haiti to experience the same progress we have seen in Africa.” "This legislation will promote American trade and strengthen our economic ties with important countries,” said Ryan. “It will encourage our friends in Africa and Haiti to pursue free enterprise and solidify the rule of law. This legislation demonstrates that more trade can create opportunity at home and promote our economic values abroad." “By strengthening trade relations through the renewal of trade preference programs like AGOA, GSP, HOPE and HELP we can better promote trade liberalization and economic reform around the world,” said Hatch. “These programs have helped to make trade with the developing world mutually beneficial, worked to reduce global poverty, and created growth and opportunity for American job creators by reducing tariffs and lowering costs. I’m pleased we were able to come together and produce consensus legislation to help move America’s trade priorities forward.” “This long-term extension and update of the African Growth and Opportunity Act improves this important development and trade program in a way that’s good for everyone. It provides certainty for sub-Saharan African countries, investors, and workers while strengthening our economic and political ties with Africa,” Wyden said. “Our AGOA bill makes it easier to crack down on bad actors and make sure that countries stay strictly in line with the important eligibility criteria. By retroactively extending our Generalized System of Preferences, our legislation will save American businesses an estimated $2 million a day. Finally, by providing for a forward-looking extension of our preference program for Haiti, this bill helps foster development for our neighbors.” Renewal & Enhancement of AGOA: The African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) helps African countries work towards long-term sustainable economic development by promoting international trade and investment with other countries. The program facilitates increased trade with the beneficiary countries by lowering U.S. tariffs to their exports. The AGOA Extension and Enhancement Act of 2015 extends AGOA for ten years, including a ten year extension of third-country fabric provisions, which are important to nurture the development of the textile and apparel industry in Africa. The measure simplifies rules of origin, promotes greater regional integration and provides greater certainty in the operation of AGOA. The measure will also strengthen congressional oversight through additional notification and reporting requirements and improves transparency and participation in the AGOA review process. Renewal of GSP: American companies have paid nearly $2 million per day in taxes since GSP expired on July 31, 2013. One of the oldest and broadest U.S. preference programs, GSP provides duty-free entry for approximately 5,000 agricultural and non-agricultural products from 126 designated beneficiary countries. The AGOA Extension and Enhancement Act of 2015 extends the program through December 31, 2017 and provides retroactive relief to eligible products that were imported during GSP’s lapse. Trade Benefits for Haiti: The Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement Act (HOPE) and the Haiti Economic Lift Program (HELP) were established to provide trade benefits to Haiti. The AGOA Extension and Enhancement Act of 2015 extends the HOPE and HELP programs for products from Haiti through September 30, 2025. Currently the program supports approximately 30,000 jobs in Haiti and promotes export growth and economic development. Program extension will encourage additional investment in Haiti. ###
03.25.2015	(Remarks as Prepared) Last week, the Pew Research Center unveiled results from a recent survey of Americans about the tax code and tax reform. Overwhelmingly, the greatest concern among those surveyed – both Democrats and Republicans alike and 80 percent of Americans overall – was that some people don’t pay their fair share in taxes, underlying the widespread feeling among the public that a select few play by a different set of more favorable rules than everyone else. The legislation before us today to repeal the estate tax reinforces that perception. It comes against a backdrop of increasing wealth and income inequality in the United States. The share of total wealth owned by the top 0.1% in the U.S. grew from 7% in 1978 to 22% in 2012, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research. In 2013, the median wealth of upper income families ($639,400) was nearly seven times the median wealth of middle income families ($96,500), the widest wealth gap since the Federal Reserve began collecting data 30 years ago. The 80% of the American public in the Pew survey are not envious, they are incensed. This bill would help barely more than 5,000 households in this country in any given year at a cost of $269 billion to American taxpayers over the next decade, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. That is $269 billion to benefit 0.15% of taxpayers, which this first graphic makes clear. All of those taxpayers would fill less a tenth of the seats at Lambeau Field. Three-quarters of the benefit of this bill accrues to people inheriting estates worth more than $20 million. More than 40 percent goes to those inheriting estates valued at $50 million and up. Those estates worth more than $50 million would each get an average tax cut of more than $22 million under this bill, as this second chart shows. This isn’t middle class economicsNearly three-quarters of the benefit of this bill accrues to people inheriting estates worth more than $20 million. More than 40 percent goes to those inheriting estates valued at $50 million and up. Those estates worth more than $50 million would each get an average tax cut of more than $22 million under this bill, as this second chart shows. The other legislation before us today concerns the IRS and its treatment of non-profit organizations. Five of the seven bills we have seen before – they were on the floor last year. We do not oppose them. I also support the two bills that are new, including H.R. 1295, which would require 501(c)(4) organizations to provide notice to the IRS within 60 days of forming. It also makes sense that when organizations provide that notice they should also indicate whether they plan to engage in political activity or expect to file a report with the Federal Election Commission. I intend to offer an amendment that adds that requirement. ###
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON – A bipartisan group of 51 House lawmakers have joined together to urge a key House committee to provide sustained funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations panel with jurisdiction over environmental programs, the lawmakers called for $300 million in 2016 for GLRI. The letter was spearheaded by Michigan Rep. Sander Levin, along with Reps. Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and David Joyce (R-OH). A copy of the letter is below. The GLRI is a six-year-old effort to protect, restore and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. The inter-agency program provides funding to address vital environmental issues in the Great Lakes, such as cleaning up contaminated sediments, reducing polluted runoff, mitigating habitat degradation and loss, and addressing invasive species such as the Asian carp. The program has invested $1.9 billion in Great Lakes restoration over the last five years. The GLRI casts a broad net to collect the best ideas from local units of government, environmental organization, citizens groups, and universities. The program provides federal resources to fund local solutions that respond to local restoration priorities. The GLRI grants are competitively awarded. To date, the program has been used to fund more than 2,000 projects nationwide. In its budget submission to Congress in February, the Obama Administration requested $250 million in 2016 for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to continue the restoration work – a 17 percent reduction from the current funding level of $300 million. “This letter shows overwhelming, bipartisan support for restoring the Great Lakes,” said U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “This has to be a priority as Congress gets to work on the 2016 funding bills. Now is not the time to cut funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.” "The Great Lakes are one of our nation’s greatest treasures, so it’s good to see a record number of my colleagues are understanding how important it is that we fund GLRI,” said U.S. Rep. David Joyce (R-OH). “I’m glad the effort to preserve and protect our Great Lakes is clearly growing across state and party lines, and we aren’t going to take our foot off the gas." “Tens of millions of Americans rely on the Great Lakes for commerce, drinking water, transportation, and recreation—it is critical that we keep these critical resources safe and clean,” said U.S. Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY), co-chair of the House Great Lakes Task Force. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative continues to make tremendous contributions to improving Lake Ontario for Rochester, which is why we need GLRI to be fully funded for the next fiscal year. Humans can only survive without fresh water for three days, and with twenty percent of all of the fresh surface water on Earth contained in the Great Lakes, we need to keep them clean, safe, and free of invasive species for future generations.” Great Lakes advocacy groups helped to highlight the need for sustained funding for the GLRI in recent weeks and urged Members’ offices to join the letter. Continued bipartisan support for the GLRI reflects a broad recognition that the Great Lakes are both a natural treasure and a vital economic asset the Great Lakes states. The Great Lakes are the source of drinking water for 40 million people, and hold 95 percent of our nation’s supply of fresh water. Jobs, recreation and tourism all depend upon a healthy and flourishing Great Lakes ecosystem. A PDF copy of the letter, with co-signers, is available here. Text is below: March 17, 2015 Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: We are writing to respectfully request that you provide $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2016 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The Great Lakes are a unique natural treasure and the largest system of fresh surface water in the world. The Lakes provide drinking water for nearly 40 million people, and are also an economic driver that supports jobs, commerce, agriculture, transportation, and tourism. More than a century of environmental damage has taken a significant toll on the Great Lakes. Since the GLRI was launched in 2010, it has made significant progress in addressing the longstanding environmental challenges confronting the Great Lakes. To date, the program has been used to fund more than 2,000 projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitat, clean up toxic Areas of Concern, fight invasive species, and prevent beach closings. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is showing real, measurable results. We urge you to continue this vital investment in the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes. The $300 million we are requesting for this vital program is in line with the authorization level included in the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act that the House approved last year. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. ###
03.05.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after U.S. Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) announced that she would not seek reelection in 2016: I have enjoyed working with Congresswoman Miller on issues of shared interest to us and the residents of Macomb County including the Great Lakes, defense and automotive issues. With work remaining in this session I look forward to more common efforts as she continues her vigorous service and loyal representation of the communities she ably represents."‎ ###
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON – Tomorrow, the Supreme Court will hear arguments in David King, et al v. Sylvia Burwell, Secretary of Health and Human Services, et al. The Ranking Members of the House Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and Education and the Workforce today reiterated their support of the affordability provisions within the Affordable Care Act, as previously noted in an Amicus Brief before the Court. Ranking Members Sander Levin (D-MI), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) released the following joint statement: “Since day one, our commitment has been to provide quality and affordable health insurance for all Americans, regardless of whether a state chose to operate its own marketplace or let state residents purchase insurance in the federal marketplace. Let us be clear: the Affordable Care Act was structured and designed to improve health insurance coverage and access across the entire country. “During debate on the bill, we fully understood that tax subsidies would be available to our constituents, irrespective of the decisions of state legislators. The Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation also echoed the original intent by including the cost of tax subsidies for all eligible Americans in their Affordable Care Act cost estimates. “As the marketplaces were established, tax subsidies were available to any American who was eligible for them, regardless of the state’s action or inaction to establish a state marketplace – just as the law intended. Because of the law, millions of Americans, including many in our states, are now able to access quality and affordable health care, some of them even for the first time. “Those questioning the intent and clarity of the law are attempting to undermine Americans’ access to health care and the health security they now enjoy. Taking this access away would not only be disruptive to these constituents, but catastrophic to the broader health care system. Congressmen Levin, Pallone and Scott recently joined members of bicameral Congressional leadership and representatives from state legislatures in filing an Amicus Brief in support of Secretary Burwell. Together, the Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and Education and the Workforce hold jurisdiction over the Affordable Care Act. ###
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement after attending the oral arguments for the King v. Burwell Supreme Court case: It was clear from the oral arguments that when the law is read as a whole, there is no ambiguity. The tax credits were to be available to all Americans, regardless of how their insurance marketplace was set up. Any other reading would do violence to the basic structure of the Affordable Care Act. The lawyer for the petitioners tried to squirm out of that conclusion, but his arguments fell one after another. During arguments, no one could point to a single occasion over the long period of time that the bill was drafted and debated that the availability of tax credits depended on where you live.” ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement in response to an op-ed by Reps. John Kline, Paul Ryan, and Fred Upton on King v. Burwell: “This isn’t an off ramp. It would be a dead end for millions of Americans who would see their tax credits disappear. Republicans are trying to send a false message to the Supreme Court that they could repair the enormous damage that this case could bring to the health care of Americans when they cannot even address basic funding for the Department of Homeland Security. This plan is vacuous. The result of an adverse Supreme Court ruling would be hugely dangerous.” ###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON – In response to a request by Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin, the Government Accountability Office today issued a report that lays out recommendations for the Labor Department, Treasury Department, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and pension plans to ensure that pension plan participants have better information when offered lump sums that replace their lifetime benefits. Offering lump-sum payments is one of several steps that private pension plans are pursuing to reduce their pension liability exposure – commonly called “de-risking.” According to the GAO, one pension firm estimated that nearly 200 plan sponsors implemented lump sum windows during 2012, and tens and maybe hundreds more plans were looking to de-risk through lump sum windows in the coming years. The GAO report, “Private Pensions: Participants Need Better Information When Offered Lump Sums that Replace Their Lifetime Benefits,” is available on GAO’s website (here) and the Ways and Means Committee Democrats website (here). Additional information from the GAO regarding de-risking strategies is anticipated in the coming months as it pursues its investigation into the trend of companies to de-risk their pension plan liabilities by either offering lump sum payments to plan participants or by transferring those liabilities to private companies who would in turn provide a replacement retirement annuity. The request that GAO investigate the issue was made jointly by Ranking Member Levin and former Education and Workforce Ranking Member George Miller in 2013. “We must ensure that workers who have saved for their retirement are adequately protected in compliance with existing rules and that all pension decisions are made with the fullest of information and with the best interests of future retirees at the fore.” said Rep. Levin. “Plan participants must have all the information they need to make an informed decision about the long-term impact of a lump sum payment instead of a defined benefit on their retirement. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee and on the other relevant Committees to ensure that both internal and external de-risking actions are undertaken with care and with the interest of future retirees at the forefront of the employers’ decision-making process. We will also be in touch with the federal agencies involved to ensure they have the necessary authority to take the steps recommended in the report to protect workers. Hard-working Americans who save for their retirement shouldn’t have to worry that they won’t get every penny they save in their retirement.” ###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI) and Adam Smith (D-WA) and U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) have introduced legislation to extend through 2020 the Trade Adjustment Assistance program – which expires at the end of 2015 – and renew a vital 2009-2010 expansion of the program to provide assistance for thousands of service industry workers affected by trade, as well as for workers losing their jobs due to trade with countries with which the United States does not have a free trade agreement, such as China. The bill would also extend the TAA for Firms program, which helps businesses adversely affected by trade regain their competitiveness. A fact sheet on The Trade Adjustment Assistance Act of 2015 is available here. Trade Adjustment Assistance provides necessary assistance for workers who have lost their job due to trade. The Department of Labor estimates that since 1975 more than two million workers have relied on the TAA program to receive benefits to make ends meet and the training necessary to find new employment. Congress included a short-term TAA extension in the omnibus bill last year, but the statutory authority for the program expires entirely at the end of this fiscal year. “The extension of the basic TAA program at the end of the year while welcome did not address several key improvements that are vital to assisting an expanded group of trade impacted workers,” Reps. Levin and Smith, and Sen. Brown said. “For example, service workers and workers who lose their jobs due to trade with non-FTA, non-preference program countries like China are not currently eligible for TAA. Our bill restores benefits to these workers while also providing much needed technical assistance so firms can remain competitive. Our commitment to displaced workers and the value of the TAA program stands on its own merits and should not be held up by other trade debates.” ###
02.26.2015	(Remarks as prepared) I’m pleased that the Committee, in the spirit of bipartisanship, is marking up these four health care bills. The approach before us today reflects the way this Committee should operate, allowing for public comment on a discussion draft, stakeholder meetings, technical advice, and bipartisan collaboration. I hope we can continue to work in such a fashion on other policies within our jurisdiction. These bills contain important member priorities. We do not have formal scores from CBO. CBO has indicated that they expect these bills to be revenue neutral. However, it is important to get and understand these scores before these bills move forward. The Program Integrity bill, re-introduced two days ago by Jim McDermott and Kevin Brady with 26 bipartisan co-sponsors, contains a number of provisions supported by both Democrats and Republicans on the Committee that make important improvements to the Medicare program. These include removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards, which protects people from identity theft; increasing protections against wrongful payments in the Medicare program; and preventing prescription drug abuse. Prescription drug abuse is a serious problem, but we need to be sure that we’re not making it harder for beneficiaries to get the medications they need. This is a very important principle for me – and for many members of the committee. This language includes strong beneficiary protections to ensure this doesn’t happen. The electronic health record bill, championed in the Committee by Reps. Black and Sanchez, is a positive development. We have put a lot of time, effort, and resources into electronic health records and want them to be successful. This bill is a step in helping to make the meaningful use program accessible to more providers. The durable medical equipment competitive bidding program has reduced well-documented overpayments to DME providers, and is estimated to result in more than $17 billion in out-of-pocket savings for beneficiaries as well. The durable medical equipment legislation introduced in the Committee by Reps. Tiberi and Larson addresses the issue of low-ball bidders by requiring bonds for companies wishing to participate in the program, importantly without disruption to the program or beneficiary services. I also hope that this bonding requirement does not impose hardship on small or rural DME providers. There is a provision in the bill requiring a close examination of this point. I also think the NOTICE Act, led in the Committee by Reps. Doggett and Young, is a very positive step in the right direction. Requiring hospitals to let patients know when they are in observation status (for more than 24 hours) will give beneficiaries and their families the information they need when considering future care and costs. There has been a large rise in patients stuck in outpatient observation status without knowing it, because their care resembles an inpatient stay. This status can have serious implications for both cost-sharing and qualifying for a post-hospital stay in a skilled nursing facility. I hope that we can get these to the floor quickly and send them over to the Senate. ###
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today delivered the following remarks at the Forum on Economic Challenges Facing the Middle Class, hosted by Senator Elizabeth Warren and Congressman Elijah Cummings: Thank you Senator Warren and Congressman Cummings for convening this important forum. And thank you to our prestigious panel. I look forward to hearing your testimony. The crisis that hit our economy in 2008 was so deep that more than 680,000 jobs were lost in each of six consecutive months at the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009, more than in any single month since 1949. Our economic rebound has been dramatic. The economy is growing at the fastest pace since the 1990s, the unemployment rate is well below what economists were anticipating even a year ago, and health care costs have never before increased so slowly, thanks to the Affordable Care Act. Yet, in contrast to earlier recoveries, wage growth has continued on the same flat trajectory that it has experienced during the past four decades, even as productivity has risen in recent years. Middle class families are struggling, and the path to the middle class is narrowing. Despite our admiration for President John F. Kennedy, what he said at the time about a rising tide lifting all boats has not worked in the decades that followed. And the Republican dogma of trickle-down economics has been a disaster for the middle class. It is vital to understand and address the causes of wage stagnation. Globalization is here to stay, as is technological change, but we need to shape their course. Fewer and fewer workers are represented in labor organizations that can bargain for a decent wage, and Republicans are determined to weaken them still further, illustrated by the new initiative of Wisconsin Gov. Walker. Contrary to the efforts led by Republicans – to take their notion that free markets domestically work without regulations, curing any defects on their own, and automatically applying it to expanded international trade as basically an end in and of itself – trade agreements must be shaped actively to support, not undermine, middle class jobs. Today’s forum represents an opportunity to tackle these issues and I join in welcoming this exceptionally distinguished panel. ###
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement in response to Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen’s testimony before the U.S. Senate: “Dr. Yellen noted that currency manipulation is not the same as the secondary impact that monetary policies can have on exchange rates. That is why the International Monetary Fund already distinguishes between the two. The IMF guidelines clearly spell out that U.S. monetary policy, including quantitative easing, is not currency manipulation. Under the IMF guidelines, which I have proposed using as a basis in TPP, currency manipulation is about government interventions in the foreign exchange markets, not about other policies that may have a secondary impact on foreign exchange rates. Currency manipulation has negatively affected the impact of trade and has likely cost the U.S. millions of jobs and it must be addressed as part of our TPP negotiations.” Earlier this month, Ranking Member Levin responded in detail to concerns that including currency disciplines in TPP could lead our trading partners to successfully challenge U.S. monetary policy. The full blog post is here, with extended excerpts below: Article IV of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement states that “each member shall…avoid manipulating exchange rates…to gain an unfair competitive advantage over other members.” The IMF has gone on to provide seven factors in its Guidelines to determine whether a country is manipulating its currency. The following review of each factor identified in those guidelines demonstrates that U.S. monetary policy, including quantitative easing, cannot be described as a form of currency manipulation. Factor 1: Protracted Large-Scale Intervention, in One Direction, in Currency Markets. The United States intervenes in the currency market less than almost any other country in the world. The United States has only intervened in the currency markets a total of three days since the late 1990s: June 17, 1998 (during the Asian exchange rate/financial crisis); September 22, 2000 (after the euro was introduced and concerns grew over the euro’s significant depreciation against the dollar); and March 18, 2011 (in connection with a Japanese earthquake and tsunami). These three interventions over nearly 20 years cannot be described as “protracted” interventions. Compare this record with, for example, China’s interventions over the past decade, which have occurred almost daily, and almost always in the same direction, to weaken their currency. The circumstances surrounding these three interventions are consistent with the Federal Reserve’s Foreign Currency Directive: interventions “shall generally be directed at countering disorderly market conditions.” They are therefore not consistent with the objective of “gaining an unfair competitive advantage” over its trading partners, which is what currency manipulation is about. In fact, the IMF recommends and encourages members to intervene “to counter disorderly conditions.” It is also worth noting that in these three instances, the United States coordinated its intervention with the other countries involved, again demonstrating that the action was not taken to gain a competitive advantage. Indeed, in all three cases the other country requested the intervention of the United States. While the United States has a flexible exchange rate (i.e., it lets the market determine its value), it is also important to note that the IMF Guidelines do not prevent other countries from establishing a fixed or managed exchange rate. The Guidelines only provide that the rate cannot be set at a consistently artificially low level (i.e., countries may engage in “protracted, large scale” interventions, so long as all of these interventions are not all in the same “direction”). Factor 2: Excessive Accumulation of Foreign Exchange Reserves. Despite the fact that the United States has the largest or second largest economy in the world, the United States holds fewer foreign exchange reserves than Thailand, Algeria, and Saudi Arabia, among others. Further, China has 25 times as many foreign exchange reserves (nearly $4 trillion) as the United States ($126 billion). Economists generally use four benchmarks, cited by Treasury in 2006 and 2014 reports, to determine whether a country’s reserves are excessive. U.S. reserves are well below each benchmark: Benchmark #1 – Reserves may be excessive if they exceed 100% of short-term external debt (commonly referred to as the “Guidotti-Greenspan Rule”). U.S. reserves are equal to 2% of its short-term external debt ($1.2 trillion). If only taking into account debt denominated in foreign currencies, U.S. reserves would equal 38% of short-term debt. Note, however, that this benchmark was designed with emerging markets in mind, not the U.S. economy. By way of comparison, China’s reserves are about 700% (i.e., seven times greater than) its short-term external debt. Benchmark #2 – Reserves are excessive if they exceed 5 – 20% of money supply, commonly referred to as M2. U.S. reserves are 1.1% of U.S. M2 ($11.7 trillion). China’s reserves are 43% of its M2. Benchmark #3 – Reserves are excessive if they exceed 20% of GDP. U.S. reserves are less than 1% of U.S. GDP (around $17 trillion). China’s reserves are 42% of its GDP. Benchmark #4 – Reserves are excessive if they exceed 3-4 months of imports. U.S. reserves equal less than a single month of U.S. imports (about $200 billion). China’s reserves equal 23 months of its imports. Factor 3: Restrictions on / Incentives for Transactions or Capital Flows for Balance of Payments Purposes. The United States has one of the least restrictive regulatory structures in the world concerning the free flow of capital. In fact, the World Economic Forum ranks the United States first in the world in terms of capital account liberalization and second in the world under a more general ‘financial development’ index. Factor 4: Encouragement of Capital Flows through Monetary Policy for Balance of Payments Purposes. This is the only guideline that even mentions monetary policy. And while the United States – and every other country in the world – does have a monetary policy, the purpose of U.S. monetary policy is neither to encourage capital flows nor to achieve a balance in payments. The goals of U.S. monetary policy are spelled out in the Federal Reserve Act, which specifies that the Board of Governors and the Federal Open Market Committee should seek “to promote effectively the goals of maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates.” Indeed, the IMF has explicitly supported U.S. monetary policy (including each round of quantitative easing since the “Great Recession”). As the IMF said in its most recent report, “[IMF] Directors agreed that the current highly accommodative stance of monetary policy is appropriate, consistent with the Federal Reserve’s objectives of maximum employment and price stability.” The IMF has also noted that U.S. monetary policy has been good for other nations (‘positive spillover effects’) because it has helped to sustain global growth. Similarly, the G-20 (which includes China, Japan, Korea, the United States, and three other TPP countries) has distinguished between monetary policy and exchange rate policy – and has recognized “the support that has been provided to the global economy in recent years from accommodative monetary policies, including unconventional monetary policies.” Factor 5: Fundamental Exchange Rate Misalignment. If anything, the U.S. dollar is properly valued or even overvalued, not undervalued, according to the most recent IMF data and estimates. Further, given the continued weakening of the yen and euro, many expect the dollar to further strengthen in value in 2015. Factor 6: Long and Sustained Current Account Surpluses. The United States has had just one current account surplus since 1981. In fact, the United States has been running large current account and trade deficits for almost four decades. Indeed, those imbalances are a major cause of concern to many economists – and currency manipulation by other countries has contributed substantially to the U.S. trade deficits in recent years. Factor 7: Large External Sector Vulnerabilities from Private Capital Flows. While the United States does have external sector vulnerabilities (i.e., private and public sector debt owed to foreigners), as reflected in the large current account deficit, much of those vulnerabilities stem from purchases of U.S. debt by foreign governments – not private capital flows. And much of those purchases by foreign governments are the result of foreign government intervention in the currency markets that result in the accumulation of foreign reserves. Thus, if anything, this factor, like Factor 6, tends to suggest that the United States is a casualty of other governments’ currency manipulation, not that it is manipulating itself. * * * The IMF Guidelines demonstrate that the United States is not manipulating its currency and would not be at risk of losing a dispute. The far greater risk is that more middle class jobs will be lost in the United States as a result of foreign governments’ currency manipulation. We need strong and enforceable disciplines in TPP to help prevent that from happening. This and my other proposals that serve as a guide to a “Path Forward to an Effective Agreement” can be found here. * China’s currency manipulation “is arguably the most important cause of the financial crisis. Starting around the middle of this decade, China's cheap currency led it to run a massive trade surplus. The earnings from that surplus poured into the United States. The result was the mortgage bubble.” Sebastian Mallaby, “What OPEC Teaches China,” Washington Post op-ed (Jan. 2009). The Bush Administration White House also drew the connection: “the President highlighted a factor that economists agree on: that the most significant factor leading to the housing crisis was cheap money flowing into the U.S. from the rest of the world, so that there was no natural restraint on flush lenders to push loans on Americans in risky ways. This flow of funds into the U.S. was unprecedented.” Statement by White House Press Secretary Dana Perino (Dec. 2008). Most of the cheap money flowing into the United States came from foreign governments (not the private sector) accumulating foreign exchange reserves and other official assets. See Joseph E. Gagnon, “Global Imbalances and Foreign Asset Expansion by Developing-Economy Central Banks,” Peterson Institute for International Economics (Mar. 2012). ###
02.18.2015	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement today regarding the arrangement reached between the U.S., Canada, and the State of Michigan regarding the staffing and operation of the U.S. customs plaza at the proposed New International Trade Crossing: This agreement clears one of the final hurdles to building this hugely important bridge. Both Michigan and the entire nation will benefit from the New International Trade Crossing and I appreciate the perseverance and hard work of everyone involved in making this agreement a reality.” ###
02.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Ways and Means Committee Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) issued statements following the end of the Affordable Care Act’s open enrollment period urging CMS to grant a special enrollment period for individuals paying a Shared Responsibility Payment. In December, Rep. Doggett requested a special enrollment period in a letter to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid (CMS). “A prompt announcement by CMS—free of any confusing delays or exceptions—will greatly benefit taxpayers as well as the many organizations across the country working to help people enroll,” said Rep. Doggett. “For the many families who may now be about to pay a penalty, there should be an opportunity to avoid both further penalties and to obtain affordable health insurance.” “We strongly urge the Administration to consider a special enrollment period to give individuals who will be paying the Shared Responsibility Payment an opportunity to sign up for health insurance,” said Reps. Levin and McDermott. “The ACA enrollment period ended before many Americans filed their taxes. Without a special enrollment period, many people making a Shared Responsibility Payment won’t have another opportunity to get health coverage this year. We share in the Administration’s efforts to provide affordable insurance to all Americans, and believe that a special enrollment period would complement these efforts.” The U.S. Treasury Department has estimated that between 3 million and 6 million taxpayers may make a Shared Responsibility Payment on their 2014 taxes.
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today delivered the following remarks on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 644, select unpaid-for tax provisions: The issue here is not the merits. The issue is whether we proceed this way. Proceeding this way is the opposite of bipartisanship. The Chairman has said he wants to find common ground. What this does is essentially pull terrain out from under common ground. And the President has said he will veto it once again. It’s also the opposite of certainty for taxpayers. We went through this last year. These bills will not become law. Period. If they were to pass the House and the Senate they would be vetoed. Last year they didn’t become law – and it will happen again this year. These provisions will be continued if we don’t pass tax reform. And, Mr. Chairman, you control the schedule. If you don’t want to wait until December, do it earlier if tax reform doesn’t become a reality. And that’s another problem with these bills – they’re the opposite of tax reform. You don’t do tax reform in a piecemeal fashion. Dave Camp, to his credit, understood that, so he came up with a comprehensive package. And the Senate Republicans understand this. Senator Blunt said last week: "As long as the Finance Committee feels there is an opportunity for overall tax reform, I think you're going to not see a quick response to individual bills coming over.” What could be clearer? This is also the opposite of fiscal responsibility. The bills here today, combined with the bills we marked up earlier today in the Ways and Means Committee, would add more than $310 billion to the deficit. There’s been some talk about helping the middle class. Action is the opposite of platitudes. So where’s the action on the Child Tax Credit? Where’s the action on the EITC, also affecting working and middle class families? Where’s the action on the American Opportunity Tax Credit? Where’s the action on the minimum wage? So, as expressed in Ways and Means, so many of us are really opposed to what is really a contradictory path here. The merits are not the basic issue. The basic issue is – do we want to fly in the face of bipartisanship? Do we want to fly in the face of certainty for taxpayers? Do we want to fly in the face of tax reform? And do we want to fly in the face of fiscal responsibility? We shouldn’t be doing that. ###
02.12.2015	Today we face something old, something new and something borrowed. But they all beg the same questions. This debate is not about the value of these provisions. Of course we support the R&D tax credit and we support the deduction for those who live in states with no state income tax. We have been long-time supporters, have introduced legislation and voted to preserve these tax benefits. The real questions are: Is the Republican majority on this committee going to be serious about tax reform? Is it going to be serious about bipartisanship? Is it going to be serious about fiscal responsibility? Unfortunately, on all three, the answer now is no – maybe later. We are back to where we were last year, and last week – passing unpaid for, permanent individual tax cuts. As to tax reform, this bill does just the opposite. It cherry picks provisions. It does the opposite of handling permanency through tax reform as Chairman Camp did last year. Senate Republicans agreed last week. Senator Roy Blunt said: "As long as the Finance Committee feels there is an opportunity for overall tax reform, I think you're going to not see a quick response to individual bills coming over." The danger in taking these bills individually is seen in the handling of the state and local tax provision. Chairman Camp eliminated it his Tax Reform Act of 2014, and we made clear then as we considered tax reform, we would keep it. And when you deal with these provisions individually, it heightens the perils of inconsistency. The Republicans are suggesting making permanent – without offsetting the cost – this provision on state and local sales taxes, even though our new Chairman said recently that he supported its total elimination. As to bipartisanship, our Chairman said just a week ago that as to tax reform he supported looking for common ground on common aspects. This is the opposite of that approach. Republicans do not seek common ground when they act on bills that the Administration said last year that it would urge the President to veto, a threat that has already been repeated on the permanent tax provisions Republicans are putting on the floor this week. As to fiscal responsibility, the answer by the Republican majority is also clearly no. With today’s bills the total added to the deficit is up to $317 billion, well on its way toward the more than $800 billion that the committee voted to add to the deficit with the 14 permanent, unpaid-for provisions passed last year. Chairman Camp's approach was fiscally responsible. This again is the opposite. On the 529 education savings account changes, we are supportive of these technical changes that would reinstate the technology expenses permitted in 2009 and 2010 and allow any college refunds to be reinvested back into one’s account within 60 days. We will offer to pay for these improvements costing $51 million by capping the availability of the 529 tax benefit so it is only available to families with an income of less than $3 million. At the end of the day, we should keep in mind that this tax savings program is used by only 3% of American families. While this committee does not have full jurisdiction over education, we should take seriously our responsibility to join in addressing the college affordability crisis gripping our country. Tuition is going up, State investments are going down, the federal grant programs are covering a much smaller portion of tuition – and our young adults are bearing the burden. Forty million student loan borrowers have more than $1 trillion in outstanding debt and the average debt of a 2013 college graduate was $27,300. At the same time the gap in bachelor-degree attainment between the nation’s richest and poorest students by age 24 has doubled during the last four decades. I’m afraid we have not made a real dent in that problem today, and I hope we will give it the attention it deserves in the future. ###
02.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) joined Reps. Tim Murphy (R-PA), Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Mo Brooks (R-AL) today in introducing legislation to hold currency manipulators accountable. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. The legislation is identical to the House bill that passed with overwhelming bipartisan support in 2010. Similar legislation is being introduced today by a bipartisan group of Senators. The Peterson Institute estimates that interventions in currency markets by foreign governments have cost U.S. workers as many as five million jobs over the last decade by making it more difficult for U.S. exporters to compete in other countries and by subsidizing their exports. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act alone is not by itself enough to end the practice of currency manipulation. Over 150 House Members and 60 Senators sent letters to the Obama administration in 2013 urging the inclusion of strong and enforceable currency obligations in the Trans-Pacific Partnership in order to deter our trading partners from manipulating their currency in the first place. A fact sheet on the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act is here. “Few actions by foreign governments do more to disrupt free and fair trade and to harm U.S. job growth than currency manipulation,” Rep. Levin said. “Currency manipulation has had a major impact on millions of American middle class jobs. We are sending an unequivocal message today that action is needed to rein in this abuse.” “When it comes to international trade, America is a welcoming nation but we’re not a welcome mat,” said Rep. Tim Murphy. “There must be consequences when foreign governments seek to illegally control currency markets in order to prop up their exporters while American factories close and American workers lose their jobs.” “Currency manipulation and other trade subsidies are costing America jobs and it is time to hold countries accountable for their illegal actions,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “We have the most innovative and productive workers in the world, but we need a level playing field if we want to remain competitive. This legislation is an important step we must take to ensure American manufacturing can thrive. This bill sends a strong message to foreign governments who manipulate their currencies at the expense of the American worker and when passed it will help create jobs here at home.” “America’s dependence on foreign suppliers is a growing problem that hurts our nation’s defense industrial base and threatens our security independence,” said Rep. Mo Brooks. “In a time of war, the United States cannot rely on foreign suppliers for either the critical raw materials or finished products needed for our national defense. We in Congress need to empower the American worker and the American economy by using the resources we have here at home. That’s why I am helping to lead a bipartisan effort, through the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, to protect American manufacturers from damaging and unfair currency manipulation.” ###
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement today after joining fellow co-chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus – Reps. Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) – as well as newly-elected Members of the Ukrainian Parliament to call for U.S. military assistance to Ukraine: “The situation in Ukraine is deeply alarming. We’re particularly concerned by signs that the Russian-backed separatists are mounting a full scale attack in the Donetsk region, clearly intending to escalate the conflict, and so blatantly in violation of the Minsk ceasefire agreement. “The situation in Ukraine is grave: 5,200 dead senselessly in the Donbas; and just last month, 30 civilians were killed and nearly 100 wounded in Mariupol when separatists fired Grad rockets 25 kilometers over the ceasefire lines. “And yet, Ukrainians remain resolute and courageous in demanding a better future, and the United States needs to help. The Ukrainian people are willing to do their part, but they need our help. Just yesterday, co-chairs of the Ukrainian Caucus met with newly elected members of the democratically-elected Parliament – and I was not only impressed by my Ukrainian colleagues, by also encouraged by them. They spoke of their dedication to implement reforms, to bolster the economy, and to rein in corruption. “Ukraine needs help to find a solution to a durable cease-fire that can lead to a longer-term solution that respects Ukraine’s sovereignty, its future and its freedom to determine its own path. We all know that while there is no purely military solution to what is a political problem, additional U.S. military assistance can help promote a political solution. “Therefore, the United States should begin providing defensive weapons that would help Ukraine defend its territory. Such weapons should include anti-tank weapons to defend against Russian-provided armored personnel carriers, ammunition, armed vehicles, and secure communications equipment, among other items. “Congress passed the Ukraine Freedom Support Act with bipartisan support. It authorizes such defensive equipment that must be now provided. “The Ukrainian people have shown their resolve to build a free and democratic country, and we should support them in achieving that goal.” ###
02.04.2015	It was nice to see our Chairman on Meet the Press Sunday indicating that he wanted to work with the Administration, and with us, to find common ground on common aspects of tax reform this year. Areas where we can agree. This approach to tax reform is broadly welcomed by those of us on this Committee because it is vital to the success of tax reform. So this mark-up is therefore unfortunate and seems contrary to the approach of finding common ground. In the Tax Reform Act of 2014, Chairman Camp undertook a comprehensive consideration of the more than 50 tax provisions that expired at the end of last year. Instead, with these bills the Majority has chosen to take a pick-and-choose approach to tax extenders, without any regard for paying the tens of billions of dollars these provisions cost to make permanent. After setting aside the comprehensive tax reform proposal by Chairman Camp last year, Republicans pursued the course being followed again today only to be met by strong opposition from House Democrats and the Obama Administration. The price tag of the 14 permanent extensions Republicans passed out of Committee last year added up to $825 billion. The provisions being considered today are important, and many have broad support. Indeed, I have been the original sponsor of the food inventory deduction in past Congresses. But extending them permanently without paying for their cost would add nearly $100 billion to the deficit. Worse, the helter-skelter approach being taken today only serves to leave behind vital provisions that help hardworking American families, like the expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit, and the American Opportunity Tax Credit. We stand ready to work with the Majority on tax reform and we very much hope we can get back on the track described by Chairman Ryan and try to find common areas for agreement that move us toward our goal of improving the tax code for which this Committee has responsibility. ###
02.03.2015	Welcome, Secretary Lew. This Administration first presented a budget to Congress six years ago. Back then, in the months of February and March of 2009 – just weeks after President Obama took office – the economy lost more than 1.5 million jobs, the most of any two-month period since World War II. Today, the economy has experienced significant growth, with 58 consecutive months of private-sector job gains. Over the past four years, the U.S. has put more people back to work than Europe, Japan, and all the world's major advanced economies combined. That’s hardly a “stagnant economy.�? Republicans can try to minimize that dramatic turnaround, but it is instructive to revisit what their party’s presidential nominee in 2012 promised to achieve by the end of his first term in office. Mitt Romney said, and I quote, “I can tell you that over a period of four years, by virtue of the policies that we’d put in place, we’d get the unemployment rate down to 6 percent, and perhaps a little lower.�? Today, nearly two years before that deadline, the unemployment rate has dropped to 5.6 percent. The ongoing challenge that we confront – a challenge that has persisted for the last three decades dating back to the Reagan years – is how to ensure that middle class families are not left out of the growth our economy is experiencing now and in the future. The President’s budget takes direct aim at that challenge. It includes proposals to support working families by making child care more accessible, guaranteeing paid sick leave and making permanent extensions of vital provisions including the Earned Income Tax Credit, Child Tax Credit and American Opportunity Tax Credit. It combines changes in the international tax structure and provisions for the long-term needs of our nation’s infrastructure. It closes tax loopholes that predominantly benefit a select few. These proposals aren’t envy economics, they are everyone economics. They are not the economics of envy, they are the economics of working for all, not just the very wealthy. Through a fiscally responsible replacement for the sequester, the President’s budget would allow us to invest in education, medical research and other domestic priorities as well as provide the resources Social Security, Medicare, and the IRS need to serve the American people. And it would provide for the ever-changing needs of our military as it confronts new challenges. I hope that Republicans give these and the other proposals presented within the President’s budget the full and serious consideration that they deserve. One of the many outstanding issues in the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations – currency manipulation – is mainly in the purview of Treasury. Over the past decade, currency manipulation by foreign governments has resulted in an increase in unfairly traded imports into the United States. It has made it more difficult for U.S. exporters to compete in foreign markets. It has cost us millions of middle class jobs. TPP includes a number of former currency manipulators, such as Japan. Other countries discussing relationships to TPP in the future – such as China, Korea, and Taiwan – also have a track record of manipulating their currencies. Each of these countries is party to the IMF, which already prohibits currency manipulation and has developed guidelines to define when it occurs. The problem is that the IMF lacks any enforcement mechanism. That’s why I have proposed taking the existing IMF guidelines, and building upon them, so they can be addressed through TPP. I have heard concerns that the U.S. monetary policy might be at risk if we put such a provision in the TPP. The IMF guidelines clearly spell out that U.S. monetary policy, including quantitative easing, is not currency manipulation. The first factor is protracted, large-scale interventions in currency markets – the United States does not engage in protracted or large-scale interventions. The second factor is having an excessive amount of foreign exchange reserves. I could go through each factor, but suffice it to say, the IMF itself has explicitly supported each round of U.S. quantitative easing since the Great Recession. U.S. monetary policy would not be put at risk by addressing currency in TPP. I look forward to discussing with my colleagues – on a bipartisan and bicameral basis – and with the Administration how to include a strong and enforceable currency manipulation provision, as well as tackling the other major outstanding issues in TPP that I outlined late last month in a document that I called “A Path Toward an Effective TPP Agreement.�? Thank you, Secretary Lew, for your dedication and service to our nation and I am very happy to welcome you back before this committee. ###
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today joined former Education and Workforce Ranking Member George Miller, Families USA Executive Director Ron Pollack, and families benefiting from the Affordable Care Act to reiterate Congress’ intent that the law’s financial assistance should be available to all Americans, regardless of the state in which they reside. The event was held this morning to coincide with the filing of the legislators’ bicameral amicus brief in King v. Burwell, which is before the Supreme Court. House and Senate Democratic authors and supporters of the Affordable Care Act filed the brief supporting the Administration’s position that financial assistance in the form of advanceable tax credits should be available to all Americans. “Our intent was clear when we debated and wrote the Affordable Care Act,” said Rep. Levin. “We wrote a law that created universality and uniformity across the country with regard to consumer protections, insurance market reforms and access to affordable health care. The Affordable Care Act’s tax credits are available for each and every eligible person in each and every state across this country – any other reading of the law does violence to the intent of Congress. This lawsuit is the latest in a five-year campaign to undermine the health reform law and put at risk the health security of all Americans. We filed an amicus brief with the Supreme Court today to reiterate – yet again – that the law should be upheld.” ###
01.27.2015	The Trans-Pacific Partnership is potentially a trade package of historic significance. Economically, the 12 participants represent 40% of the world’s GDP. New vital issues are being negotiated multilaterally for the very first time. TPP has the potential to raise standards and open new markets for U.S. businesses, workers and farmers – or to lock in weak standards, uncompetitive practices, and a system that does not spread the benefits of trade, affecting the U.S. economy, job prospects and wages for decades to come. At this juncture, there are many major outstanding issues in key subject matters of TPP. The resolution of these issues will decide the merits of TPP and whether it is an Agreement that builds on progress in recent FTAs. Last week I put forward a description of what I believe to be the most effective resolution of the major outstanding issues. Achieving these outcomes could lead to a landmark TPP agreement worthy of major bi-partisan support, and my support. The outcomes will affect the paychecks of American families now and in the future. We should focus on getting it done right. To achieve this, Congress at this point must not give up its leverage by passing TPA – where it can only say yes or no – until we are fully confident that USTR is on a clear path toward effectively achieving these outcomes. Congress needs to assure itself of a fully active role in the effort to get TPP right. With the negotiations at a pivotal point, within a few months of final decisions being made on key specific issues and provisions, the Congressional role must be instrumental. We have played an active and important role in the past. And numerous trade agreements have been improved as a result. We put together provisions in the May 10 agreement on enforceable labor and environment standards as well as vital medicine provisions; we inserted into China PNTR provisions to strengthen enforcement of China’s obligations, unfortunately not utilized, as well as trade enforcement and human rights provisions in Russia PNTR. And, we insisted the industrial provisions of the Korea FTA be re-negotiated where Dave Camp and I worked closely with the auto companies and auto workers – and the Obama Administration went back and got a stronger agreement. This may not be the course suggested by those who believe more trade is, by itself, so positive that any problem in TPP will work itself out over time. For some others there is no feasible way to do TPP right. So both focus now on process, on the vehicle, Trade Promotion Authority, and not on the vital contents of the TPP package that would be on that vehicle. Let me give a few examples why we need right now to focus on TPP. First, currency manipulation has cost the United States millions of jobs over the past decade. Bipartisan majorities of both the House and the Senate, and staunchly conservative as well as liberal economists, have urged the Administration to include strong and enforceable currency disciplines in TPP. But the Administration has not yet broached the subject in the TPP negotiations. On agricultural market access, we continue to hear concerns from farm groups that TPP could lock in closed markets, particularly in Japan, but also in other countries. We must insist that tariffs be eliminated on virtually all agricultural products, and that there be significant new access for the few products where tariffs aren’t eliminated. On investment, the Economist magazine, the Cato Institute, foreign governments, and others from across the political spectrum have expressed growing concerns that the investment provisions of our trade agreements, particularly the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, could unjustifiably interfere with each nation’s sovereign right to regulate. Recent examples are Australia's regulations of tobacco and Canada's handling of medicine patents. TPP needs to include new safeguards, as I proposed last week. Finally, TPP needs to preserve the provisions of the bipartisan May 10 Agreement of 2007. For example, this is the first time the United States has ever negotiated a comprehensive trade agreement with a communist trading partner. Vietnam must recognize that workers have the right to choose their own representatives – and we need to put in place an ongoing panel to ensure Vietnam’s compliance. No less important are outstanding provisions on access to Japan’s automotive market, state-owned enterprises, rules of origin, environmental protections and human rights. Giving Congress a fully effective role – as well as for representatives of groups with a big stake in TPP negotiations – is an effective way to assure other nations that USTR is bargaining with strong Congressional bipartisan support. In order for that to happen, all members of Congress and cleared advisers must have full access to the negotiating documents, including to the positions taken by other nations, on a secured basis where necessary. There has been some progress on transparency, but more must happen. A full role for Congress at this important juncture in the TPP negotiations, with real transparency, is absolutely essential -- nothing else will suffice. ###
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), all members of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, introduced a bipartisan resolution Monday calling on the release of Ukrainian fighter pilot and a Member of the Ukraine’s Parliament Nadiya Savchenko. This resolution is part of the global community’s effort to bring attention to her plight and demand her immediate release. “We continue to call on Russian authorities to immediately release Nadiya Savchenko from custody. We are gravely concerned by reports of her ill health since the commencement of a hunger strike on December 14, 2014, now into its seventh week. We are equally troubled by Ms. Savchenko’s lack of access to her counsel and adequate medical attention. We demand that Russia abide by its international obligations and the rule of law, and we join the United States Department of State in calling for Nadiya Savchenko’s immediate release,” said Rep. Sander Levin, co-chair of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. “The transnational abduction of Nadiya Savchenko by pro-Russian militants and subsequent unlawful detention in Russia is clear a violation of her human rights. It is simply unacceptable that Nadiya Savchenko has been held in isolation awaiting her day in Russian court for seven months. The time is now for Russia to release Nadiya Savchenko and allow her to freely return to her family in Ukraine,” said Rep. Bill Pascrell. “It’s clear President Putin has no interest in reconciling the violence Russia has brought to Ukraine. Despite signing the Minsk Protocol, Russia continues to imprison Nadiya Savenchko in Moscow. Today’s resolution makes the opinion of the U.S. Congress clear, we stand with Ukraine and demand that Ms. Savenchko be released,” said Rep. Quigley. ###
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today laid out a path toward effectively resolving the outstanding issues within the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations in a way that could ultimately gain his support. The proposal, linked to here, highlights the many outstanding issues with the TPP and in each case specifies an achievable outcome that – in total – could win bipartisan support. “The Trans-Pacific Partnership is the most important multi-lateral trade agreement of my career in Congress, with the potential to raise standards and open new markets for U.S. businesses, workers and farmers – if it is done right. After more than four years of negotiations, TPP is at an important juncture with many important issues still outstanding. The resolution of these issues will decide the merits of TPP and whether it is an agreement that builds on progress in recent FTAs,” said Rep. Levin. “Achieving these proposed outcomes could lead to a landmark TPP agreement worthy of major bipartisan support, including mine. Congress must maintain its leverage until it is confident USTR is on a path toward achieving these outcomes.” ###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding President Obama's State of the Union address: "The President confidently described the economic recovery and I fully support his focus on middle class economics. We must ensure the benefits of the improving economy flow to middle class families through higher wages and increased opportunity through improvements in child care, paid leave policies and educational opportunities. "I agree with the President that we need to write the rules of trade and knock down the barriers to U.S. exports around the globe. The Asia-Pacific region is an important one, with the nations engaged in the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations representing 40 percent of the world's GDP. There are many vital outstanding issues in TPP whose resolution can affect the households of American families and the ability of American businesses to create jobs. Congress must maintain its role and leverage in the resolution of these issues." ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL), House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Senator Jack Reed (D-RI), and Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) today introduced legislation to tighten restrictions on corporate tax inversions, limiting the ability of American companies to lower their U.S. taxes by combining with a smaller foreign business and moving their tax address overseas. The legislation would save the U.S. nearly $34 billion in revenue, according to a recent estimate from the Joint Committee on Taxation. Co-sponsors of the Durbin-Reed bill include Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), and Al Franken (D-MN). The House bill was originally introduced in May by Rep. Levin and three dozen other Democrats. “When corporations invert, they renounce their American citizenship and don’t pay their fair share of taxes—leaving the rest of us to pick up the tab. That isn’t right,” Sen. Durbin said. “Today, we are putting these corporate tax deserters on notice: we are not going to stand by while they game the tax code and avoid their responsibility to our country. It’s time for Congress to act on a legislative solution to crack down on companies that are turning their back on American taxpayers.” “This loophole illustrates perfectly why so many Americans believe that big corporations play by a different set of rules than everyone else,” said Rep. Levin. “This is clearly a problem that is not going away – it cannot wait for tax reform. The Treasury Department’s proposal was an important step, but legislative action is necessary to stop the ongoing flood of inversions.” “Congress needs to close the inversion loophole to protect American taxpayers and businesses that pay their fair share for our national defense, our infrastructure, and the education of our workforce. Our bill would help put a stop to the corporate shell game that allows some companies to shift their address abroad for tax purposes while remaining in the U.S. and increasing the tax burden to American taxpayers. Middle-class families and small Main Street businesses don’t have that option when it comes to paying taxes,” said Sen. Reed. “Large multinational corporations are exploiting the current system and this is a pragmatic, sensible solution to put a stop to the inversion trend. If Congress fails to act quickly on inversions it could seriously erode the corporate tax base and make improving the tax code that much harder.” “Corporations that renounce their citizenship not only invert their business operations but pervert our tax laws,” said Rep. Doggett. “This bill supports American companies that are paying their fair share and helps provide small businesses a more level playing field.” The Stop Corporate Inversions Act: The legislation closes a loophole used by companies to lower U.S. taxes. Current law prohibits an inversion – for tax purposes – if the shareholders of the foreign company own 20% or less of the new combined corporation. This legislation would increase that threshold to 50%. Regardless of the percentage ownership in the new combined corporation, if the affiliated group that includes the combined foreign corporation is managed and controlled in the United States and engages in significant domestic business activities in the United States, the U.S. corporation cannot invert under the legislation. The legislation would repeal the 60%-80% ownership test and the “inversion gain” applicable to such stock ownership percentages. As under current law, the legislation would maintain the substantial business exception under Section 7874 if the combined foreign corporation has substantial business activities in the foreign country where the combined entity is incorporated. The legislation would be effective for any inversion transactions completed after May 8, 2014, when the House bill was originally introduced. Background: Congress enacted Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code in 2004 as a way to discourage U.S. companies from acquiring smaller foreign companies and moving their tax home to a foreign jurisdiction to dodge U.S. taxes. Since the provision was enacted in 2004, there have been approximately 40 corporate inversions, according to Bloomberg. The Treasury Department released a notice in September aimed at reducing the key tax benefits of inversions. ###
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) joined his fellow co-chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus -- Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) – today in releasing the following statement regarding the detention of Ukrainian pilot and Member of Parliament Nadia Savchenko: “We continue to call on Russian authorities to immediately release Nadia Savchenko from custody. We are gravely concerned by reports of her ill health since the commencement of a hunger strike on December 14, 2014, now into its fifth week. We are equally troubled by Ms. Savchenko’s lack of access to her counsel and adequate medical attention. We demand that Russia abide by its international obligations and the rule of law, and we join the United States Department of State in calling for Nadia Savchenko’s immediate release.” ###
01.13.2015	(Remarks as prepared) Our economy has experienced a major bounce back. It has rebounded from the loss of 7 million jobs in a single year beginning in 2008 and an unemployment rate that soared to 10 percent in 2009. More than 11 million private sector jobs have been created in the last five years, as this chart shows, with 58 straight months of private sector job growth leading the unemployment rate to fall to 5.6%. The economy of this country has been put back on its feet and it’s moving ahead. The stock market has climbed to record highs and the deficit as a percentage of GDP has been cut by two-thirds since 2009. The Affordable Care Act has helped to dramatically cut the percentage of Americans without insurance and health care premiums are growing at the lowest rate in 50 years. This major reversal from deep decline to economic growth occurred despite Republican opposition to President Obama’s proposals, repeated GOP threats to default on our debt obligations and an incredibly harmful 16-day government shutdown fueled by an unending ideological opposition to the Affordable Care Act. This year must see a different environment. It needs bipartisan action on important issues. Among the deepest challenges facing our economy today remains one that has persisted for decades, starting in the 1980s – stagnant middle class wage growth. This chart from the Economic Policy Institute shows the nearly flat line of wage growth that the bottom 90 percent of American workers has experienced since 1980, even as incomes have grown significantly among the very wealthiest. In December the Washington Post chronicled the long-standing problems facing America’s middle class. They found that the average wage in a quarter of American counties is actually lower today than it was 35 years ago. That’s real stagnation in the lives of America’s middle class. And yet even immediate and much-needed steps that Democrats have promoted to address this problem have encountered an ideological roadblock from Republicans. Efforts to increase the minimum wage and ensure that women earn the same as men for equal work have encountered fierce Republican resistance. An Obama administration proposal to require overtime pay for millions of additional white collar workers who are currently not covered has been met with strong criticism from some congressional Republicans. And financing the long-term needs of our nation’s infrastructure has taken a back seat – despite the fact that we know investments in infrastructure create jobs now and make us stronger in the future. The Committee has not held a hearing on this topic in the last four years. I hope that in my further discussions with Chairman Ryan we can quickly reach agreement on the holding of hearings on financing of major infrastructure legislation. Tax reform must be a central focus of this committee. Democrats believe that reforming the tax code should not center on rate cuts at the very top for the wealthiest Americans, but rather on creating a tax code that is fairer for working families, promoting economic growth and eliminating loopholes for special interests and ensuring that both individuals and businesses pay their fair share of taxes. Under any circumstances, we learned in 1986 and re-learned more recently that for tax reform to progress, it is essential that there be serious open discussions on a bipartisan basis, from the very beginning and throughout. I hope that we can proceed accordingly. On the Trans-Pacific Partnership, negotiations are at a vital juncture with many of the key issues still unresolved. TPP is the most significant multilateral negotiation in over 20 years, involving 12 nations representing 40 percent of the world’s economy and presenting many new issues for such negotiations. How these issues are resolved is central to whether we are moving effective trade policy forward. The important challenge is not to just get it done, but get it right. Congress must be a full partner and I strongly suggest we organize on a bipartisan basis to work on the substance of TPP. ###
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin today joined a bipartisan group of House lawmakers in introducing the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act of 2015, legislation to formally authorize the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. A similar bill was approved by the House of Representatives on December 9, but failed to pass the Senate before the last Congress ended. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative was created by the Obama Administration in 2010. Over the last six years, Congress has provided more than $1.9 billion for the GLRI, which funds restoration efforts in the Lakes, including cleaning up toxic hotspots; fighting aquatic invasive species, like the Asian carp; restoring critical habitat; and addressing polluted runoff that contributes to beach closures and harmful algal blooms in the Lakes. Formal authorization of the GLRI strengthens the program, provides for regular congressional oversight, and makes it more likely that future congresses will continue to fund the effort. The newly introduced House bill calls for funding GLRI at up to $300 million a year between 2016 and 2020, although Congress will need to come up with the money in the annual funding bills. “The important work of fully restoring the Great Lakes must continue,” said U.S. Rep. Sander Levin. “It is time for Congress to take the next step and formally authorize this vital program. Just as importantly, the House and Senate need to provide the resources to fund the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative as we get to work on this year’s budget. I will be working to make sure the House Appropriations Committee understands how important this program is to the Great Lakes region.” ###
12.16.2014	WASHINGTON – A new report from the House Energy and Commerce Committee today showed that 78,000 Americans in Michigan’s 9th Congressional District – more than any other district in the state – would lose tax credits to help pay for insurance coverage, if the Supreme Court were to rule in favor of the challengers in the lawsuit of King v Burwell. The report, which provided a district-by-district analysis, showed that $65 billion in tax credits are at risk nationwide – including $375 million in Michigan’s 9th Congressional District. Click here for the report, prepared by the Democratic staff of the Energy and Commerce Committee. On November 7, 2014, the Supreme Court announced that it would take up the case of King v Burwell. The case involves a challenge to providing federal tax credits to consumers who receive Affordable Care Act insurance coverage through the Federally Facilitated Exchanges. Oral arguments are expected to be heard in March 2015 with a decision in the summer of 2015. U.S. Rep. Levin, who as Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee helped author the Affordable Care Act, submitted an amicus brief to the Supreme Court regarding the case earlier this year. “The Affordable Care Act was designed to make health-care coverage affordable for all Americans, regardless of the state they live in,” Rep. Levin wrote in a recent Washington Post op-ed together with other leading Democrats who helped author the health law. “Providing financial help to low- and moderate-income Americans was the measure’s key method of making insurance premiums affordable. Without it, millions would remain uninsured, and for them, the new law would be nothing more than an empty, unfulfilled promise.” The plain language of the Affordable Care Act – a law expressly designed to provide “near-universal” coverage – makes clear that tax credits are available to all Americans at specified income levels, regardless where they live. The Supreme Court has repeatedly stressed that statutes must be read as a whole. The relevant ACA provisions, taken together, compel the conclusion that tax credits are available on all exchanges, whether operated by the states or the federal government. The challengers’ legal argument, if accepted, would take away tax credits from millions of Americans, and would contradict the language of the Act itself. The law has such titles as “Quality Affordable Care for All Americans” and subtitles as “Affordable Coverage Choices for All Americans.” “The Affordable Care Act makes financial help available to working Americans in every state,” Rep. Levin wrote in the op-ed. “That is the law we intended. That is the law we enacted. That is the law that is covering millions of people through marketplaces. And that is the law that should continue to be in force.” ###
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 5806, a permanent, unpaid for extension of three tax provisions that would add more than $11 billion to the debt: Let me make clear at the outset: This isn’t a debate about the excellent work of charities or foundations or their vital role in our society. This House has already taken action to provide for the three provisions included in this bill for this year’s tax returns as part of the broad extender bill that passed last week. So when the Chairman talks about “no surprises,” we’ve already passed through the House and what will become law is an extender bill that makes it clear for this tax season these provisions are in effect. There’s no doubt about that. So everyone who voted in favor of that package has already ensured that taxpayers can benefit from these provisions this year. This isn’t about politics. And frankly, as a lead sponsor of one of these bills, I find it objectionable any reference to politics. I sponsored that bill regarding food contributions because of my belief that many people wanted to contribute to help supply nutrition. And when the President issued his Statement of Administration Policy, there was no politics at all. Zero. He had made that clear in July. And I think it’s regrettable that anyone would say that politics has anything to do with this issue. As I said, these provisions are already going to be available for taxpayers in this tax season. This is about fiscal responsibility and fiscal priorities. What this bill does is to take three provisions out of the many in the extender bill, leaving aside R&D, leaving aside the education provision, leaving aside the Child Tax Credit that would expire in terms of its improvements in a couple of years. What this bill does is to take just these three, important as they are, and say, “we’re going to going to make them permanent,” without paying one dime for them, adding more than $11 billion to the debt. I must say – whatever anyone thought of Chairman Camp’s comprehensive bill, and we had some questions about it, but never questioning the fact that it took some hard work and courage to put these provisions into the context of comprehensive tax reform. So it’s counterintuitive to just pick these three up and make them permanent unpaid for. Let me read the White House Statement of Administration Policy, if I might. I just hope it sets to rest any claim that this is about politics. Because, as the original sponsor of one of these bills, I can just emphasize what propelled me to propose it. All of the food pantries that I went to. All of the church groups that I went to that provide food. The business people I talked with, who were essentially donating food that they couldn’t sell. And doing so in a way that was timely so the foods were easily edible and readily so. And so, with that spirit, and talking about the spirit of the season, this Administration Policy – I hope with that spirit it will be received: “The Administration supports measures that enhance non-profits, philanthropic organizations, and faith-based and other community organizations in their many roles, including as a safety net for those most in need, an economic engine for job creation, a tool for environmental conservation that encourages land protections for current and future generations, and an incubator of innovation to foster solutions to some of the Nation’s toughest challenges. The President's Budget includes a number of proposals that would enhance and simplify charitable giving incentives for many individuals. “However, the Administration strongly opposes House passage of H.R. 5806, which would permanently extend three current provisions that offer enhanced tax breaks for certain donations. As the Administration stated when strongly opposing similar legislation this past July, if this same, unprecedented approach of making certain traditional tax extenders permanent without offsets were followed for the other traditional tax extenders, it would add $500 billion or more to deficits over the next ten years, wiping out most of the deficit reduction achieved through the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. Earlier this year, House Republicans themselves passed a budget resolution that required offsetting any tax extenders that were made permanent with other revenue measures. “As with other similar proposals, Republicans are imposing a double standard by adding to the deficit to continue tax breaks, while insisting on offsetting the proposed extension of emergency unemployment benefits and the discretionary funding increases for defense and non-defense priorities such as research and development in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013. House Republicans also are making clear their priorities by rushing to make these tax cuts permanent without offsets even as the House Republican budget resolution calls for raising taxes on 26 million working families and students by letting important improvements to the Earned Income Tax Credit, Child Tax Credit, and education tax credits expire. “The Administration wants to work with the Congress to make progress on measures that strengthen America’s charitable sector. However, H.R. 5806 represents the wrong approach. “If the President were presented with H.R. 5806, his senior advisors would recommend that he veto the bill.” ###
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) and Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) introduced the Taxpayer Protections Against Abusive Seizures Act, legislation that provides taxpayers with protections against the inappropriate application of civil forfeiture laws. These laws were enacted to curtail money laundering and terrorist activities, but a recent report in the New York Times indicates that they have also been used to seize funds from some small businesses, in some cases leaving them with no working capital to make payroll and maintain needed inventory. The laws are designed to prevent a practice called “structuring,” the act of making small cash deposits to avoid the $10,000 bank-reporting threshold that is commonly used by drug dealers, money launderers, and terrorist entities to avoid detection by authorities. The laws authorize the government to seize the funds of those found engaging in structuring, and in the instance reported in the New York Times, there were inadequate opportunities for the business owner to challenge the seizures. In announcing the legislation, Chairman Camp said, “In America, a citizen suspected of a crime is innocent until proven guilty. All too often, however, our current laws allow the government to assume guilt without allowing the accused a speedy hearing, depriving them of much needed working capital. This bill provides average American small business owners the ability to challenge powerful government agencies like the IRS, and guarantees them their day in court.” Ranking Member Levin said, “This legislation would give law-abiding taxpayers – including small business owners – an opportunity to challenge a notice of seizure and ensure that the IRS is acting appropriately and within the law. Taxpayers have the right to due process when their property is seized, and this bill protects that right.” The legislation would provide that an affected person, within fourteen days of receiving a notice of a seizure, may request a court to hold a probable cause hearing within fourteen days of such request. Additionally, the bill provides that if, within fourteen days of such request, no hearing is held, or if the government fails to show probable cause, the seized funds are automatically returned to the individual. ###
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today overwhelmingly approved legislation to formally authorize the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The measure was introduced last month by Representatives John Dingell (D-MI), David Joyce (R-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY). The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) was created by the Obama Administration in 2010. Over the last five years, Congress has provided more than $1.6 billion for the GLRI, which funds restoration efforts in the Lakes, including cleaning up toxic hotspots; fighting aquatic invasive species, like the Asian carp; restoring critical habitat; and addressing polluted runoff that contributes to beach closures and harmful algal blooms in the Lakes. Formal authorization of the GLRI strengthens the program, provides for regular congressional oversight, and makes it more likely that future congresses will continue to fund the effort. “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative was created by the Obama Administration and, since 2010, Congress has wisely funded it,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Now is the time for Congress to take the next step and formally authorize this vital program. Congress must remain a full partner in the restoration effort in the Great Lakes, and authorizing this initiative is the best way to do that.” The bill now moves to the United States Senate, which has just a few days left to consider the Great Lakes bill before the 113th Congress ends. ###
12.05.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) met with reporters today to discuss the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the need to continue to focus on the continuing negotiations of that agreement instead of focusing on Trade Promotion Authority. Segments of his remarks are transcribed below: A different kind of trade agreement “It reinforced in Australia for me how TPP represents both a major opportunity and a major set of challenges. We all know that it’s about 40% of the world’s GDP. And interestingly, it’s not only a large number of nations, but nations that we haven’t negotiated trade agreements with before. This is really the largest multilateral negotiation that might succeed since the Uruguay round. And there are new issues that have never been negotiated. And I think we forget in terms of a large multilateral agreement, there has not been inclusion of labor, of environmental issues, of state owned enterprises. The medicine issue has been negotiated in bilateral FTAs, but it hasn’t been done on this major of a level. There remain major outstanding issues in TPP A list of the vital remaining issues is linked to here. Congress must maintain its leverage “My feeling is this – when you look at this list of outstanding issues, it’s so critical that Congress maintain its leverage and its resolution. … We used that leverage – some of us – when it related to China PNTR. We essentially said to the Administration in its negotiation of the accession agreement that there had to be changes made in the China PNTR. And without going into a lot of detail, what resulted was a bipartisan amendment. And then we told the Administration they had to go back and get a better deal with China. And so we used our leverage. And I’d mentioned May 10th, which is a vivid example of Congress using its leverage. And a few of us essentially ended up negotiating with the Peruvian government the Peru FTA and its inclusion of what was in May 10th. And one other example of the importance of Congressional leverage I’ll mention is Korea. It was originally negotiated, but it was unsatisfactory in terms of the automotive sector. So what really happened was that several of us used the leverage that Congress had to stimulate the revision of the Korea FTA to include some major provisions regarding automotive. And it was a collaborative effort between a few of us in Congress and American industry and the labor movement. Focus must be on TPP, not TPA “At this critical juncture, with all of these outstanding issues, the focus has to be right now on the substance of TPP and not passing a TPA. Because if you go down the list of these issues, there’s no way for TPA to spell out what Congress thinks needs to be contained in an effective TPP. So I really think that the key here has to be the focus on TPP and not trying to move on TPA now – I think it puts the cart before the horse. If you put the focus on TPA when you have so many outstanding issues, essentially what it does is force or stimulate members to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to TPP before so many of the outstanding issues have been resolved. So essentially I think it makes it more difficult, not less difficult, to get an effective TPP. So I strongly feel coming back from Australia, meeting with negotiators from so many countries, seeing how many outstanding issues there are, talking to USTR, we really need to now – this Congress – focus on TPP and set up some formal structures for us to be active partners in the resolution of this issue. Because otherwise TPA becomes a proxy for TPP, and that’s a serious mistake. I’ve worked for decades to try to shape trade agreements to be able to support them. And I think that’s now the role of Congress, to be actively shaping the resolution of these outstanding issues. “The main way to signal other countries that there will be support of members of Congress is to deeply involve members of Congress in the discussion and the resolution of those issues. … The best assurance that other countries can have that what is negotiated can succeed is the active participation of Congress in the discussion and the resolution of these issues. Moving TPA without a clear role for Congress and a clear understanding of these issues might well mean that TPA will fail. Because you’re asking members to essentially give away their major leverage on a major historic trade agreement while there remains so many outstanding issues. And I think there’s going to be major resistance to Congress doing that when TPP is at this stage of negotiations. … I think bringing up TPA before there is major Congressional involvement in the resolution of these outstanding issues would be a donnybrook in terms of TPA. I think it would essentially say that the vote on TPA is a proxy for your vote on TPP. And I think it would dramatically polarize the approach of this Congress on trade. And therefore it’s a serious mistake to bring up TPA before there is much more effective involvement of Congress in the discussion of and the proposed resolution of these issues. A fuller role for Congress “I want there to be set up some structure so that there is regular consultation with the Committees of jurisdiction as the negotiations ensue. So that there is the full participation of this Congress in the discussion and the resolution of these issues. … Full discussion of what is in the documents, and of what is being proposed by the Administration, and what are the positions of other countries, and what are the likely bottom lines of this Administration. What you have is considerable consultation without adequate meaningful involvement. Supporting an effective TPP “I’m in favor of a TPP that should be supported by a broad range within the Democratic party as well as the Republican party. I’m in favor of a TPP that addresses these issues. I’m in favor of a TPP that at long last breaks Japan’s exclusion of American industrial products. I’m in favor of a TPP that opens up the Japanese market. I’m in favor of a TPP that addresses this difficult investor-state issue. And I don’t like it that the investor-state issue becomes essentially a technique of people – an opportunity for people to say ‘down with TPP, period.’ I’m in favor of addressing the Vietnam labor issue – it’s a difficult issue. We’ve never negotiated a trade agreement with a non-market economy with a non-free labor market. It isn’t an easy issue to resolve. Fuller transparency “At this point, can I tell you what is the Administration’s position on tobacco? The answer is no. Can I tell you where they are on agriculture? No. On investor-state they tell me that the issue is closed – that’s what was said at Australia. That’s a mistake. The issue of investor-state is a live issue, and it has to be considered and it has to be worked on. Environment, we’ve seen the text. What they did was to shift from the May 10th agreement, and we don’t know where they’re going. In terms of medicines, we worked hard in the May 10th agreement in terms of data exclusivity. Do I know where this Administration is going? The answer is, a number of proposals were put forth in Australia as to when the data exclusivity provisions for non-developing countries – when that would end. And there’s a major disagreement in terms of whether you do it on a timeline or whether you do it in terms of economic structure and development within a country. Currency has not been discussed. You had a majority of members in the house and Senate, Republicans and Democrats, saying that currency should be considered as part of this agreement. You cannot layout in a TPA what the final treatment of currency should be. “In terms of all we’ve worked for – those are major issues. I want them resolved, and I want this Congress to have a very major role – not to make the final decision, not to be the negotiator, but to have a major role in the resolution of those issues.” ###
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) this week joined a group of 11 bipartisan colleagues in introducing H.R. 5782, the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014. The legislation, a companion bill to S. 2828, which was approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in September, would provide for additional assistance to Ukraine in the forms of humanitarian, energy and defense, while imposing additional sanctions on the Russian Federation. “As co-chair of the Ukrainian Caucus, I believe this bill is an important step in support of Ukraine,” said Rep. Levin. “The Ukrainian people have come under siege by separatist forces supported by Russia. It is clear to all of us that in spite of the ceasefire, Russia has never intended to honor the terms of the agreement and has continued to undermine any genuine effort to stabilize Ukraine. This bill makes it clear that if Russia chooses aggression, there are clear consequences to its expansionist agenda. The Ukrainian people have demonstrated time and again their will to defend their nation against a more powerful aggressor. The United States needs to do its part in helping the Ukrainian people determining their own future.” Original cosponsors include: Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Rep. Eliot Engel, (D-NY), Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA), Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL), Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Rep. Steve Stockman (R-TX), Rep. Jim Moran (D-VA) and Rep. Bill Keating (D-MA) ###
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement following his selection by the Democratic Caucus to remain as the Ranking Member of the Committee in the 114th Congress: Serving as the ranking member of the Ways and Means Committee is an immense honor, and I appreciate the support of my colleagues. This Committee faces many of the challenges that need to be addressed in the right way, including strengthening – not weakening – Medicare and Social Security, trade and tax reform constructed in ways that focus on boosting our economy and creating American jobs, and efforts to help health care reform continue to expand insurance coverage and lower costs. My Democratic colleagues on the Committee will work with our Republican colleagues to tackle these and other vital issues in creative ways that honor the bipartisan traditions of the Ways and Means Committee and place first and foremost the interests of the American people.” ###
11.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement in response to the news that the Supreme Court has agreed to hear King v. Burwell, a challenge to the Affordable Care Act: This lawsuit misconstrues the intent of the authors of the Affordable Care Act and threatens to take health coverage away from millions of Americans that have already signed up under the new law. As I stated in a recent op-ed I co-authored in the Washington Post, the law was written to make healthcare affordable for all Americans – regardless of where they live and whether they purchase coverage in a state- or federally-based marketplace. Low- and middle-income Americans who live in states that chose not to establish their own marketplaces should not be penalized simply because their state decided to defer to the federal government. As the ranking member of one of the committees that shaped and debated the healthcare law, I am confident that the Supreme Court will recognize both the letter and intent of the law to ensure that financial assistance remains available in every state.” ###
11.10.2014	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after President Obama announced that he would award U.S. Rep. John Dingell the Presidential Medal of Freedom: Few Americans have left a more lasting imprint on the U.S. Congress and the laws of our nation than John Dingell. Whether it was his role in health care reform, the auto industry, or protecting the environment, during his six decades in Congress John Dingell has led through both tenacity and humor. Our nation is profoundly better off because of his great service. On behalf of my entire family, with whom there has been a long friendship with John and his family, I warmly congratulate John Dingell on receiving the Presidential Medal of Freedom.” ###
10.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Co-Chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus – U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), Jim Gerlach (R-PA) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) – today issued the following statement regarding the illegal detention of Ukrainian pilot Nadia Savchenko by the Russian Federation: “We join Ambassador Baer and the European Union in calling for Nadia Savchenko’s immediate release from Russian custody. We are gravely concerned by reports of her transfer to Serbsky State Scientific Center for Social and Forensic Psychiatry for psychological evaluation, and by delays in her hearings. We are fully aware that such delays and abuse of psychiatry are well-known tactics used for political purposes against opponents. We strongly call on Russia to honor its international obligations and to abide by the rule of law, and we call for the immediate release of Nadia Savchenko.” ###
10.28.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the passing of Sterling Heights Mayor Richard Notte: The City of Sterling Heights has lost a humble, hard-working public servant. Richard Notte was a Mayor deeply rooted in the fabric of his community, and exceptionally proud to represent all of its citizens. He was an articulate spokesperson for the middle class and American manufacturing and we are all deeply saddened by word of his passing.”
10.27.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations after attending the ministerial meeting in Sydney, Australia, which ended Monday. During his stay, Ranking Member Levin attended briefings on key issue areas and met with U.S. negotiators, TPP trade officials and stakeholders: "The Trans-Pacific Partnership is potentially the most far-reaching trade agreement in decades because of the countries and issues involved. Some of my observations of the status of the negotiations are as follows: · With substantial work having been done, going forward there needs to be a sharp focus on the what, not the when. It is the substance of a TPP agreement that matters. · The United States has never negotiated a comprehensive trade agreement with some of the TPP parties. TPP therefore presents a special opportunity and special challenges. Vietnam and Malaysia, for example, have very different structures from our own. And we must confront Japan's longstanding and persistent exclusions of agricultural and automotive products from its markets. · Very important principles are being discussed in the negotiations, on a broad range of issues. While the text must reflect these principles, the devil will be in the details of the text, in the annexes and the 'non-conforming measures,’ and in the implementation of the obligations. That is true in critical areas, including the environment, state-owned enterprises, labor rights, and a broad range of market access issues. · The quantity of increased trade is important. But in this new era of globalization, the most important test is its quality, its potential impact on the lives of people. The goal must be to ensure that the potential benefits of trade are spread broadly to the many, not just the few. · The May 10 structure, which I helped negotiate, was a major breakthrough on the rights of workers, environmental protections, and access to medicines, and it is vital that TPP build on them, not weaken them. · There are many outstanding, unresolved issues pinpointed in most chapters or not yet considered, so now it is vital to have an open door for a broad understanding and involvement on how they should be resolved, with increased transparency. We need more public input and debate on all of the mentioned issues, as well as intellectual property, food safety and investment. · Recognizing geopolitical ramifications, the key test of an agreement must be on the vital trade aspects themselves.”
10.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after AbbVie and Shire said they would terminate their proposed merger: “The Treasury Department has done its part to clarify existing law, causing big corporations to think twice about moving their addresses overseas primarily for tax benefits. Now Congress must live up to its responsibility and take legislative action to ensure that a small number of large corporations don’t get to play by a different set of rules than everyone else.”
09.30.2014	WASHINGTON – A new report from Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) shows the number of people in each state who have lost access to federal unemployment benefits through September as a result of the termination of the program and illustrates why opposition to helping the long-term unemployed misreads history and overlooks the benefits to the economy. Through the end of September, more than 3.6 million people have been cut off unemployment insurance because of the expiration of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program last December, according to new data from the Department of Labor. The report cites several studies that highlight the program’s benefits to the economy and millions of Americans since it was enacted in 2008, including evidence that federal unemployment insurance helped prevent 1.4 million foreclosures between 2008 and 2012 and that unemployment insurance helped more than 12 million people avoid falling below the poverty line between 2008 and 2013. The report is available here. “Evidence proves that federal unemployment benefits played a critical role in preventing the recession from collapsing into a depression and should be part of the nation’s effort toward continued economic recovery,” Ranking Member Levin wrote in the report. “The positive impact of unemployment insurance in the recession was substantial – improving consumer spending, job creation, labor force attachment, poverty, and the rate of home foreclosures. Unfortunately, 3.6 million long-term unemployed Americans have been denied the value of this program since December and our economic recovery has suffered as a result.” The new state-by-state data in the report is copied below: Estimated Number of People Cut Off Emergency Unemployment Compensation through Sept. 2014 STATE Number Cut off Dec. 28* Number Cut off Since Dec. 28** Total AK 6,100 13,300 19,400 AL 12,400 24,400 36,800 AR 9,200 19,400 28,600 AZ 13,800 33,500 47,300 CA 240,100 460,700 700,800 CO 18,300 37,200 55,500 CT 23,700 40,000 63,700 DC 4,300 9,900 14,200 DE 3,400 6,600 10,000 FL 60,200 108,600 168,800 GA 54,300 64,100 118,400 HI 2,000 7,400 9,400 IA 5,000 20,900 25,900 ID 2,300 9,200 11,500 IL 81,400 113,800 195,200 IN 19,900 29,900 49,800 KS 4,600 20,900 25,500 KY 17,100 21,000 38,100 LA 6,700 13,800 20,500 MA 37,700 63,700 101,400 MD 24,100 41,100 65,200 ME 3,300 10,700 14,000 MI 43,900 87,800 131,700 MN 9,500 40,400 49,900 MO 21,300 42,300 63,600 MS 11,700 14,600 26,300 MT 1,800 7,500 9,300 NC*** - 0 0 ND 700 6,300 7,000 NE 2,000 8,800 10,800 NH 1,300 4,200 5,500 NJ 74,100 121,300 195,400 NM 6,000 13,700 19,700 NV 16,400 25,200 41,600 NY 123,900 160,000 283,900 OH 39,000 52,600 91,600 OK 4,100 17,000 21,100 OR 20,200 32,100 52,300 PA 84,500 108,800 193,300 PR 21,000 31,300 52,300 RI 5,300 11,000 16,300 SC 14,500 18,100 32,600 SD 300 800 1,100 TN 17,600 31,100 48,700 TX 75,000 150,800 225,800 UT 2,800 11,400 14,200 VA 9,400 39,200 48,600 VI 1,500 1,000 2,500 VT 700 2,800 3,500 WA 29,300 45,400 74,700 WI 24,200 44,300 68,500 WV 6,100 12,500 18,600 WY 800 3,400 4,200 Total: 1,318,800 2,315,800 3,634,600 Source: US Dept. of Labor Office of Unemployment Insurance * Estimated Claimants Cut Off EUC at Program Expiration 12/28/2013 ** Regular UI exhaustees that would have potentially been eligible for EUC were it available. Includes actual regular exhaustees through August and estimated exhaustions for Sept, 2014. *** Estimates exclude NC who ended their EUC08 program in July 2013. ###
09.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Michigan’s health insurance marketplace, already among the most robust in the nation, is gaining an additional four issuers in 2015, according to preliminary information from 2015 issuer filings to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight. That’s a 33 percent increase from 2014 – making Michigan among the states with the largest number of participating issuers within the Federally-facilitated Marketplaces. Nationwide, there will be a 25 percent increase (to 248) in the number of health insurance issuers offering Marketplace coverage in 2015 compared to 2014, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. An issue brief from the Department of Health and Human Service Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation is available here. Michigan is not losing a single issuer next year, according to the preliminary information. All four entrants are new to the Marketplace in Michigan. “Health reform was intended to provide Americans with better, more affordable health insurance options and the first year of the new Marketplace has proven to be a tremendous success in achieving that goal,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “The increase in the number of insurance offerings next year provides yet another illustration of the early success of the Marketplaces.” More than seven million Americans enrolled in the Marketplace this year, and gained access to quality, affordable health insurance. Open enrollment for 2015 begins on Nov. 15. ###
09.22.2014	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sandy Levin and Sen. Carl Levin, both D-Mich., authors of legislation to close the corporate inversion tax loophole, today welcomed the Treasury Department’s announcement of rules changes to address inversions: “The administration is taking important and necessary steps to stem the tide of inversions in the wake of Republicans’ refusal to act,” said Rep. Levin, ranking member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Corporate inversions are costing the U.S. billions of dollars in lost tax revenue and putting an increasing burden on American taxpayers, who cannot just move their addresses overseas to avoid taxes. While administrative action is vital, it is clear that a full and lasting solution can only come from Congress. I’m hopeful that Republicans will see the need for immediate action on inversion legislation when Congress returns.” “The changes the administration announced today are an important step toward ending these blatant tax dodges,” said Sen. Levin, chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. “Profitable corporations should not be able to avoid their taxes simply by moving their mailbox overseas. While the administration’s actions are an important step, only Congress can fully close the tax inversion loophole. Congress should act promptly when we return to eliminate this tax dodge.” ###
09.19.2014	WASHINGTON – The White House announced today that the Chippewa Valley Coalition for Youth & Families has been Awarded a second five-year grant from the Drug Free Communities (DFC) grant program. The Coalition, which first received a grant through the program in 2009, will receive $125,000 a year over the next five years. The DFC program was created by the Drug Free Communities Act of 1997, legislation co-authored by Congressman Levin. “Evidence has shown that communities receiving Drug Free Communities grants lowered their instances of youth drug and alcohol abuse,” said Rep. Levin. “The Chippewa Valley Coalition continues to demonstrate its effective and innovative ways to engage our community on drug-prevention efforts and this grant will allow them to continue to impact our community and youth in a positive way.” The Chippewa Valley Coalition for Youth and Families has been a leader in Macomb County and throughout the region and state on the issue of combatting the increase in marijuana use by our youth. The Coalition created a state-wide initiative called Mobilizing Michigan that Rep. Levin helped to launch in April 2013. In addition, the Coalition places a heavy emphasis on student, parent and community involvement, holding frequent events and workshops promoting anti-drug prevention awareness, and educating parents on current substance abuse issues. Background The DFC program was created by the Drug Free Communities Act of 1997 which was co-authored by Congressman Levin and Former-Congressman Rob Portman. Congressman Levin is a principal advocate for the program in Congress, leading the fight to improve funding levels since the program’s creation. Here is a fact sheet on the DFC Program and further information: Since its inception, the DFC Program has funded over 2,000 community coalitions. Community coalitions that are at least six months old can apply for up to $125,000 per year for up to five years. Each coalition can apply for two cycles of funding, for a maximum of 10 years. To be eligible for DFC funding, coalitions must comply with a minimum one-to-one match requirement, thus doubling the Federal investment. The matching amounts – whether in-kind, donations, or cash – must come from non-Federal sources. With 92% of funds appropriated to DFC allocated for grant awards, DFC represents one of the most effective and efficient primary prevention efforts in our Nation today. SAMHSA provides Grants Management Specialists and Government Project Officers who serve as primary points of contact for DFC-funded coalitions. Additionally, SAMHSA monitors DFC-funded coalitions for fiscal and administrative grant compliance, conduct site visits, and provides support for financial issues. In FY 2014, $84 million funded 197 new grants, 463 continuation grants for coalitions already in a five-year cycle, 3 new DFC Mentoring grants, and 17 continuation DFC Mentoring grants. The DFC Mentoring grants provide funding to existing grantees so they can help new coalitions become strong enough to apply for DFC funding on their own. ###
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), and Committee Member and Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus Xavier Becerra (D-CA) issued the following statements following the announcement by USTR that the United States is proceeding with a labor enforcement case against Guatemala under the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR). It is the first time ever that the United States has pursued dispute settlement to enforce labor obligations in a trade agreement. “It is high time that Guatemala be held to the labor obligations to which it committed a decade ago,” said Levin. “Guatemala’s failure to enforce its labor laws weakens its economy and damages the opportunity for its citizens to earn a decent livelihood at a time when large numbers of unaccompanied minors and others are fleeing to escape violence and poverty in their home countries. I appreciate the hard work that USTR, the Department of Labor, the AFL-CIO and others have devoted to this important cause.” "I applaud the efforts of the USTR and the Labor Department to hold Guatemala accountable for failing to carrying out its commitments under the Action Plan and for its failure to enforce labor laws that will protect its workers’ rights,” said Rangel. “We have an obligation to ensure that our trading partners are upholding the terms negotiated in our Trade Agreements. I am proud to join my colleagues and labor unions to send a strong message that the United States will not overlook any failures to maintain and enforce laws that meet international labor standards." “Only meaningful improvements in economic and security conditions and strengthening institutions of democratic governance in Guatemala can provide a lasting and sustainable solution to its many challenges, and today's actions by USTR and the Department of Labor are an important step in the right direction,” said Becerra. “Trade should be about removing barriers, improving standards for working men and women, and lifting all boats so we can trade as partners and as equals.” ###
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin and Congressmen Gary Peters, John Conyers, Jr., John D. Dingell, and Sander Levin, announced today that M-1 RAIL will receive $12.2 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). M-1 RAIL is a public-private partnership to build a 3.3-mile streetcar line that will run along the Woodward corridor from downtown to the New Center area of Detroit, boosting economic development in Southeast Michigan and creating thousands of jobs. “Today’s announcement is great news and an important economic boost for Detroit and Southeast Michigan,�? said Stabenow. “This project will help attract new businesses and investments in the region and create thousands of new jobs. Today’s news is another vote of confidence in the amazing public-private partnerships that are moving Detroit forward.�? “It’s an exciting time to be a Detroiter,�? Sen. Levin said. “Today’s grant announcement is the final piece of the puzzle for the M-1 project, which represents years of work by the Detroit community. The M-1 project will produce even more development along the Woodward Corridor in the coming years.�? “Investing in transit like the M-1 RAIL project is critical to creating good jobs and driving new economic development opportunities for communities across Southeast Michigan,�? said Peters. “Experts estimate that every $1 we invest in transportation and infrastructure has a $4 return on the investment. This is a positive step toward building a strong future for Greater Detroit.�? “M1 RAIL is a win-win-win for commuters, businesses, and taxpayers,�? said Conyers. “Today’s announcement will fast-track this essential job-creating project.�? “This much-needed funding is not only an investment in creating good jobs today, it’s an investment in an infrastructure system that will show benefits well into the foreseeable future,�? said Dingell. “A public transportation system like this is a positive step forward for the city of Detroit and throughout our surrounding areas. I’m proud we were able to work together at all levels of government, and with private industry, to show the importance of this effort and the support of our community behind it. This is wonderful news for Southeast Michigan.�? “This is an important step in moving forward with rail along the Woodward Avenue corridor,�? said Rep. Levin. “The federal government has been and must continue to be a full partner in this effort.�? Southeast Michigan’s Congressional Delegation helped secure this and other federal funding for M-1 RAIL by working closely with high-ranking government officials, business and community leaders, philanthropic partners, Wayne State University and others on the project. This new funding will allow the transit project to be finalized by the end of 2016 and comes through the U.S. DOT’s TIGER discretionary grant program, which invests in local transportation projects designed to strengthen the economy, increase commerce, and achieve critical national policy objectives. Construction of the M-1 RAIL began in June and will include 11 stations providing links among key destinations along Woodward Avenue. It will also provide an energy efficient transportation alternative and reduce traffic congestion and parking demand along the corridor. A one-way trip will take approximately 15 minutes depending on the time of day. ###
09.05.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations report on IRS and TIGTA mismanagement: “This comprehensive report from the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) details that the IRS mishandled 501c4 applications from both liberal and conservative groups, and provides new information confirming there is no evidence of political bias on the part of IRS in processing applications for tax exempt social welfare groups. I said early on that the Treasury Inspector General’s report got this investigation off on the wrong foot by omitting key evidence that progressives were included and evidence that there was no political motivation. It is further troubling to see additional evidence of TIGTA mismanagement of their own investigation. Republicans have chosen throughout this matter to shut their eyes to all of the facts and continue their wild allegations that serve only to advance their own political objective of appealing to Tea Party groups. I expect the same now, but PSI has done the American people a service by laying out the facts of this case clearly so they can reach their own conclusions. The IRS exempt organization division badly mishandled the processing of these applications from the inappropriate criteria, the intrusive questions and the long delays. There is no excuse for this gross mismanagement, but Republicans in Congress should be working with Democrats to clarify the law around the social welfare definition instead of blindly making inaccurate claims of conspiracy.” ###
08.25.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding news reports that Burger King has plans to invert with Canadian company Tim Hortons: The reported deal with Burger King, an American company, highlights the need for Congress to act with urgency to keep companies in the U.S. rather than moving abroad. We need to seriously examine the reasons behind this reported deal and take steps in the immediate future to prevent further erosion of the U.S. tax base.” For information on corporate inversions and proposed legislation, click here. ###
08.07.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after the World Trade Organization appellate body handed a victory to the United States in a rare earths case against China, affirming a WTO dispute settlement panel’s March 2014 finding in favor of the United States: “Today's report is a vindication for America’s workers and manufacturers whose rights, livelihoods, and ability to innovate have been held hostage by China’s predatory and illegal policies. The United States did not hesitate and worked strategically with its co-complainants in this case – the European Union and Japan – to take China to task for discriminatory measures that disrupt the global marketplace and global supply chains that are responsible for bringing to market some of today’s most critical and innovative green and energy efficient products. The result today is another example of the payoff for persistence and diligence in enforcing U.S. trade rights and pursuing the interests of U.S. workers and businesses.” ###
08.05.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after the Obama Administration said it is looking at possible ways to address the issue of corporate inversions. Ranking Member Levin also commented on reports that Walgreen has decided not to invert: The Administration is right to look carefully at any options it may have to stem the flow of corporate inversions. The discussion of possible administrative actions should not be an excuse for Congress to drag its feet on legislation to address the issue. Corporate inversions, as well as other tax avoidance strategies, threaten to cause long-term damage to the U.S. tax base and increase the tax burden on ordinary Americans – and swift collective action is required. I am glad to see reports today that Walgreen has decided not to invert.” ###
07.29.2014	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) and Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Xavier Becerra (D-CA) today responded to the release of the 2014 Medicare Trustees Report and 2014 Social Security Trustees Report. The 2014 Medicare Trustees’ Report projects a solvency date of 2030, a four-year improvement from last year’s report. The 2014 Social Security Trustees’ Report projects continued stability, with the same solvency date as projected in last year’s report, 2033. Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Levin: “It is no coincidence that Medicare’s financial outlook has improved dramatically in the last five years. The Affordable Care Act has significantly slowed the growth in health spending nationwide. That development has been lost on Republicans, who remain obsessed with tearing apart the health law and ending the Medicare program as we know it. The Social Security Trustees report underscores that the program remains strong, with its long-term future presenting a manageable challenge that must be addressed while preserving Social Security as a foundation of financial security for the millions of current and future seniors, disabled workers, and children who need it. Republicans need to stop standing in the way of policies that would grow our economy and grow Social Security by helping more people work, earn more, and contribute more to Social Security.” Health Subcommittee Ranking Member McDermott: “Today’s Trustees report provides encouraging news for the Medicare program. Thanks in no small part to the reforms made by the Affordable Care Act, growth in national health spending has slowed dramatically. We have also reduced wasteful overpayments to private sector plans, while improving benefits for seniors. The Medicare program’s outlook continues to improve year after year and these improvements have placed Medicare on a stronger financial footing – extending the program’s solvency to 2030. This is four years longer than the previous Trustees report. Moving forward, we must address the issue of costs through innovative reforms that reduce waste in the healthcare system without harming beneficiaries. Now more than ever, we must reject radical proposals to turn Medicare into a voucher program. We must work to ensure that the program remains strong for generations of American seniors to come.” Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Xavier Becerra: “Over the course of 79 years and 13 recessions, Social Security has kept its promise to pay seniors, widows, disabled workers and children their earned benefits, on time and in full. Today’s report shows that over Social Security’s lifetime, it has raised $17.2 trillion and paid out $14.4 trillion, leaving a current trust fund balance of $2.8 trillion to help support future benefit payments. In the near-term, the most serious risk Social Security faces is the impact of four years of Republican budget cuts, which have resulted in local office closings and staff shortages, long wait times on the phone and in person, and growing backlogs of Americans waiting for their earned benefits.” KEY TAKEAWAYS FROM THE 2014 MEDICARE TRUSTEES REPORT The Affordable Care Act Substantially Improved Medicare’s Solvency. The 2014 Medicare Trustees Report projects a solvency date of 2030, a four-year improvement from last year. In sharp contrast, the Republican agenda to repeal the ACA would slash years from the program’s solvency, accelerating the date of insolvency by eight years according to the last estimates prepared by the Office of the Chief Actuary (2012). The ACA took many steps to strengthen Medicare’s fiscal outlook, including removing overpayments to private Medicare Advantage plans, improving provider payment accuracy, encouraging better coordination of care to minimize duplication of tests and improve outcomes, and empowering CMS with new tools to fight health care fraud. Strengthened Long-Term Fiscal Situation Thanks to Reform. Medicare’s long-term 75-year deficit is also dramatically improved, dropping from 3.88 percent before ACA’s enactment to 0.87 percent now – this means that the 75-year deficit can be closed with revenue increases or spending cuts (or a combination thereof) equivalent to a 0.87 percent increase in the payroll tax. This improvement in the program’s financial outlook is due to lower than expected 2013 spending for Medicare Part A services especially inpatient hospitalizations, lower utilization assumptions for inpatient hospitalizations, and lower case mix assumption for skilled nursing facilities and home health agencies. In sharp contrast, the Republican agenda to repeal the ACA would dramatically worsen Medicare’s finances. The Medicare actuaries projected in 2012 that if the ACA were repealed, eliminating the 75-year deficit would require a more than doubling of the payroll tax from 2.90-percent to 6.33 percent, or a significant reduction in expenditures. House Republicans Will Politicize Trustees Report to Raise Beneficiary Costs. Republicans will likely seize on the 2014 Trustees Report to justify their plans for Medicare benefit redesign, which would dramatically raise cost-sharing for beneficiaries. Half of all Medicare beneficiaries have incomes below $22,500, yet Republicans want to shift costs onto this population in the name of saving Medicare, despite the dramatic improvements made since the passage of the ACA. Republicans will tout that similar policies were proposed in the President’s budget, but those budget proposals were in the context of a big deficit reduction package that included shared sacrifice with both spending cuts and revenue increases. Those proposals are not to be cherry-picked and do little to slow spending growth; they are merely cost-shifts. Republicansare not newcomers to the strategy of politicizing the Trustees Report in order to advance a plan to cut Medicare. KEY FACTS ON SOCIAL SECURITY BUDGET CUTS AND SERVICE DELIVERY IMPACT: Number of Americans receiving Social Security: 54 million in 2010 vs. 58 million in 2014 (+4 million) Total Social Security operating budget: $11.3 billion in 2010 vs. $10.5 billion in 2014 (-$800 million) Social Security staff: 73,000 in 2010 vs. 62,000 in 2014 (-11,000) Hours Social Security offices are open to the public: 35 in 2010 vs 27 in 2014 (-20 percent) Percentage of time the Social Security 800 number is busy: 8 percent in 2010 vs. 14 percent in 2014 (1.75X more likely to get a busy signal) Number of days disability applicants wait for a decision from an Administrative Law Judge : 340 days in 2011 vs. 415 days in 2014 (+75 days) ###
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), together with fellow Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-chairs Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA) and Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), today introduced [H.R. 5190] legislation to authorize the President to work with the Government of Ukraine to assess that country’s military, intelligence, and security needs and provide adequate and necessary assistance to protect Ukrainian democracy and sovereignty. The Ukraine Security Assistance Act of 2014 would provide a clear and specific process to provide direct military and security assistance to the Government of Ukraine as it seeks to strengthen its democracy and prevent separatist violence and aggression within its borders. This bipartisan legislation would reinforce the strong relationship between the U.S. and Ukraine and take an important step toward helping Ukraine neutralize the military-support advantage that separatist rebels are using to target civilian and military aircraft in eastern Ukraine and foster violence and instability across that country. Rep. Levin: “With the overwhelming evidence that Russia is supplying the separatists with weapons, including the anti-aircraft missile that downed Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, we want to make it clear that the United States stands with the people of Ukraine. We will help the Ukrainian people defend themselves from Russian efforts to destabilize Ukraine.” Rep. Gerlach: “The Ukrainian people have made clear their desire to build a stronger democratic self-government and establish closer ties to the European Union and the west. Unfortunately, as recent events have demonstrated, the Russian Federation will not honor Ukraine’s sovereignty and will continue meddle within Ukraine’s border until it has broken the spirit of the Ukrainian people. The evidence released by U.S. and Ukrainian intelligence authorities shows without a doubt that rebel separatists and hired thugs, armed with superior Russian technology and weapons, continue to foment havoc and instability. The bipartisan legislation we introduced today is another important step towards reaffirming the United States’ commitment to helping our Ukrainian allies develop as a fully democratic nation.” Rep. Kaptur: “I am proud to stand united with my caucus co-chairs Reps. Jim Gerlach and Sander Levin today as we introduce the “Ukraine Security Assistance Act of 2014”. While the tragic crashing of MH17 certainly has brought the necessary condemnation of the world community, Ukraine and her people have been suffering for months at the hands of Russian-backed separatists and Russian aggressors. It is time for the United States to provide reasonable security assistance to Ukraine. The bill we introduce here today reaffirms the United States’ commitment to Ukraine and her people. Our bill reiterates the President’s authority to provide such assistance and advocates for the delivery of security and intelligence assistance to Ukraine. Our bill calls to designate Ukraine as a Major Non-Nato Ally, in order to temporarily provide vital resources and the security NATO offers to member states. Additionally, this bill expands military-to-military training and cooperation, specifically increasing the current tempo of military exercises and training efforts. The world has witnessed the destabilization of Ukraine for months and this most recent atrocity further illustrates Mr. Putin’s blatant refusal to use his influence to quell the instability and violence. The United States continues to stand with Ukraine and her people, who have every right to sovereignty, territorial integrity, and self-determination as they strive for greater liberty and a more democratic future.” This legislation also calls on President and the Secretary of State to increase defense cooperation between the U.S. Armed Forces and the armed forces of Ukraine. ###
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement in response to an ongoing GAO investigation that is using fake identities to gain access to affordable health insurance: “It is important to keep in mind that the motivation for the fraud fabricated as part of the GAO investigation for a real person would be a desire to receive insurance coverage. There would be no financial windfall, as any government subsidy goes directly to insurance companies and not to the consumer seeking that insurance. In fact, people committing these frauds would be risking severe fines and possibly jail time.” “Individuals receiving insurance under the ACA have a grace period to verify the information provided in their application. If they are unable to do so, they will be unenrolled from insurance. If they have misstated their income, they will have to repay the government for the subsidy that went to their insurance company. That grace period becomes shorter next year, and if the final GAO investigation highlights other steps that should be taken, those should be considered as well. Indeed, CMS has indicated that they’re willing to work with GAO to make any needed improvements. “What should not be done is to vilify Americans seeking the security of health insurance – often for the first time in their lives – as criminals seeking to fraud the U.S. government based on 12 examples and an incomplete investigation. “It is disturbing to see the Republican determination to take health insurance away from Americans. Instead of lifting one finger to help constituents, or working on a bipartisan basis to fix the Affordable Care Act, Republicans are content to use 12 examples from an investigation still underway to undermine the law.” ###
07.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today sent the following letter to Committee Chairman Dave Camp urging House Republicans to “join in bipartisan discussions to stop the flood of corporate inversions,” and added that “the promise of tax reform must not be used as an excuse to do nothing while more and more companies invert to avoid U.S. taxes.” Read a PDF of the letter here, or the full text below. July 21, 2014 The Honorable Dave Camp Chairman Committee on Ways and Means 341 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Camp: I was encouraged last week to see Senator Hatch express openness to take steps to address corporate inversions short of comprehensive tax reform. Senator Wyden, too, has noted that he is exploring options to address the issue in both the near and long term and the Senate Finance Committee is planning to hold a hearing on the issue on Tuesday. As you know, I, with other Democrats in the House, have introduced legislation to address the problem. I believe it is vital that House Republicans join in bipartisan discussions to stop the flood of corporate inversions. This is an issue of immediate urgency, requiring a bipartisan effort to address it. Clearly that bipartisan effort must also include the Administration. As you know, on July 15, Secretary Lew wrote to urge the Congress to immediately enact legislation “to reverse the trend toward corporate inversions,” and to make any such legislation effective from May 2014. He emphasized that, short of undertaking a comprehensive reform of the business tax system, there are concrete steps that Congress can take now. The wave of corporate inversions threatens to undermine the U.S. tax base and our economy, to the long-term detriment of all of the companies that do business here, as Allan Sloan described in a recent cover story for Fortune magazine. Companies that move their address overseas to avoid paying their fair share of taxes will no doubt continue to benefit from being headquartered in the United States, with our robust financial markets, protection of intellectual property rights, our support of research and development, along with our stable communities and wealth of educated workers. Comprehensive tax reform must help level the playing field for American companies, but we have witnessed firsthand how challenging of an achievement it remains. The promise of tax reform must not be used as an excuse to do nothing while more and more companies invert to avoid U.S. taxes. Sincerely, Sander M. Levin Ranking Member Committee on Ways and Means ###
07.18.2014	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, which was shot down over eastern Ukraine: My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of the victims of the downed airliner in Ukraine. I agree with the President’s call for a full and independent investigation to determine who is responsible so the perpetrators of this senseless tragedy can be brought to justice.”
07.16.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after receiving a letter from Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urging Congressional action to stop inversions: I greatly appreciate Secretary Lew’s call for immediate action to shut down this abuse of our tax system. The Republican refusal to act now to stop this abuse explains why more and more Americans believe the playing field is rigged against them. Ordinary Americans can’t change their address to an overseas location in order to avoid paying taxes. We must act now to ensure that big corporations are unable to do just that.” For more information on corporate inversions, including Rep. Levin’s proposed legislation, click here. ###
07.10.2014	(Remarks as Prepared) In announcing this mark up, Mr. Chairman, you argued that patching the Highway Trust Fund through next May would give this and other committees “the full influence they deserve” in crafting a long-term solution. Yet in the last three-plus years, the Republican majority on this prestigious panel has failed to take advantage of its potential influence and its responsibility to sustain the Highway Trust Fund over the long-term and shore up vital infrastructure projects. In fact, this Committee has not held a single hearing on financing options for the Highway Trust Fund since Republicans assumed the majority of the House, despite Democrats urging otherwise. Six months ago, every Democrat on this committee requested that you hold a series of hearings on financing options. “Time is of the essence,” we wrote in that January letter. That request went unheeded and we now find ourselves at the 11th hour, with the Highway Trust Fund running on fumes. Unless Congress acts by the end of this month, more than 100,000 transportation projects could be delayed, and as many as 700,000 construction jobs could be put at risk. Our infrastructure, once a point of pride around the world, is literally falling apart. The American Society of Civil Engineers gave our country’s roads an overall grade of D in its 2013 report card. More and more of our nation’s bridges are becoming structurally unsound. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that, in its current form, the Highway Trust Fund will experience a shortfall of $120 billion over the next 10 years. Federal inaction and short-term extensions create uncertainty at the state and local level, and hinder needed transportation investments. Americans deserve better. They deserve a long-term solution from this Congress that provides certainty for states and local communities and construction workers alike, and that addresses our nation’s overwhelming infrastructure needs. We must acknowledge that our nation’s transportation infrastructure requires reliable and sustainable funding. Funding the Trust Fund through the end of the year will maintain the pressure on this Congress to reach that long-term solution. Given that the majority’s legislation is using the same offsets used to pay for the bipartisan Senate-passed unemployment insurance extension and since Speaker Boehner has demanded that any such action be attached to a jobs bill, I once again urge House Republicans to take this opportunity to extend assistance to America’s job seekers. The bill before us today is a jobs bill, but the Republicans continue to refuse to act, to allow a vote on the floor of the House. In the more than six months since Republicans first blocked an extension of unemployment insurance, more than three million Americans have been cut off benefits. Despite the improvement our economy continues to make – with 52 consecutive months of job growth – long-term unemployment is well above where it has been during every previous recession since the Great Depression. Without unemployment benefits, which require claimants to actively search for work, more of the long-term unemployed will give up looking for work, causing long-term harm both to them and our economy. ###
07.07.2014	The new data underscores the significant increase in the number of U.S. corporations that have or are seeking to lower their U.S. taxes by reincorporating overseas. It also adds urgency to a legislative solution. Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin in May introduced legislation that would tighten rules to limit inversions. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that the legislation would save $19.5 billion over 10 years. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Sen. Carl Levin. “Barely a week seems to pass without news that another corporation plans to move its address overseas simply to avoid paying its fair share of U.S. taxes,” said Ranking Member Levin. “These corporate inversions are costing the U.S. billions of dollars and undermining vital domestic interests. We can and should address this problem immediately through legislation to tighten rules to limit the ability of corporations to simply change their address and ship U.S. tax dollars overseas.” ####
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON – The ranking members of the Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and Education and the Workforce Committees today issued statements in response to the Supreme Court decision in the case of Burwell v. Hobby Lobby, allowing some for-profit corporations to exclude contraception coverage in their employees’ insurance plans: Rep. Sander Levin: “Today’s Supreme Court ruling undermines a woman’s right to make health decisions that are best for her and her family. This ruling not only limits a woman’s access to contraception, it also makes employees of private corporations vulnerable to discrimination when their employer says that the employee’s rights conflict with their religious beliefs. This is a dangerous precedent to set.” Rep. Henry Waxman: “The Court has said that fictional corporations that exist only on paper have more rights than real people who have real health-care needs. It’s one more radical judicial step in making it better to be a corporation than a person. It is particularly offensive that the Court does this in a decision that is so personal for a woman: her decision to have or not have children. For-profit corporations, no matter the size and structure, should not have the right to limit their female employees access to safe, legal, and critically important health care services. We must continue to forcefully oppose efforts to roll back women’s rights to make their own health care decisions and work to make sure all Americans have access to the preventive health services they need.” Rep. George Miller: “In passing the Affordable Care Act, we were very clear: when it comes to health care, women can no longer be discriminated against, charged more, or denied services simply because of their gender. As a result, the ACA is the most significant piece of legislation for women’s health that this country has seen in decades. The law has broadened access to health care and contraception so that women, not their bosses or insurance companies, can make their own choices about their health care. Today’s Supreme Court decision is another backwards-looking and unwarranted attack on women’s access to health care.” ###
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) co-sponsored bipartisan legislation introduced today by U.S. Rep. Dan Kildee (D-MI) to extend federal unemployment insurance for five months. The bill has at least four Republican co-sponsors and is fully paid for. The House legislation mirrors a bipartisan Senate bill introduced earlier this week by U.S. Sens. Jack Reed (D-RI) and Dean Heller (D-NV). More than three million Americans – including 113,500 in Michigan – will have been cut off federal unemployment insurance through the end of June because of the program’s December 2013 expiration. “The bipartisan House and Senate bills meet Speaker Boehner's demands that any extension of unemployment benefits be paid for and be provided only on a prospective basis,” said Rep. Levin. “The bill could be easily combined with upcoming legislation to fund transportation improvements or to extend tax breaks to meet the Speaker's final demand that any UI extension be part of larger legislation that will create jobs. The time for excuses is long over. We must act now.” Both the House and Senate bills would strengthen reemployment and eligibility assessment and Re-Employment Services programs while ensuring individuals receiving emergency unemployment compensation are eligible for enhanced, personalized assessments and referrals to reemployment services when they begin their 27th week of UI (Tier I) and 55th week of UI (Tier III). In December 2013, Republicans blocked legislation to extend emergency unemployment benefits, forcing 1.3 million Americans to lose access to their federal unemployment insurance. The number of Americans without their eligible benefits has since grown to more than three million. ###
06.25.2014	(Remarks as delivered) In February, Chairman Camp unveiled a Republican tax reform proposal that he hailed as comprehensive, trimming the tax code by 25 percent without adding anything to the deficit within the first 10 years. In a matter of just four months since then, Republicans have moved in ways that both dramatically contradict the draft tax reform package and threaten the programs that matter to American families. The proposals Republicans have brought forward in recent months – including the two provisions today – would selectively and permanently expand the tax code without a single offset, adding $825 billion to the deficit. That results from just 14 tax provisions. Imagine what the total will be when Republicans get through the entire tax code. The hypocrisy of the Republican fiscal irresponsibility is simply stunning. It was barely more than two months ago that Republicans argued that the Ryan-Republican budget – which they claimed would balance the budget in 10 years – was the fiscal medicine this nation needed. Our colleague Congressman Brady said at the time that “Americans have had it with Washington’s fiscal irresponsibility.” Chairman Ryan said that we cannot “continue spending way beyond your means.” What Republicans continue to do today is not only ignore their own lofty rhetoric but also their own budget, which required that any tax cuts be offset. Instead, they continue to drive their runaway tax train into a deficit ditch so deep that when all is said and done taxpayers will be on the hook for more than $1 trillion in additional debt. The $825 billion in tax spending that Republicans will have approved out of the committee after today represents more than one-and-a-half times what we spent last year on all non-defense domestic discretionary spending, which has been slashed by Republicans to its lowest level on record, as a percentage of GDP. That includes spending for such vital domestic priorities as health research, food safety, and veterans’ health care. Already that spending is on pace to fall below 2 percent of GDP within the next decade. When Republicans eventually come hunting for cuts to rein in a debt that they are voting to add an additional $200 billion today, we know where they’ll turn. Nowhere yet in the Republican piecemeal plan to expand the tax code and the deficit has there been any discussion of key priorities, such as making permanent the expansions of the Earned Income Tax Credit for working families, the New Markets Tax Credit to revitalize lower-income neighborhoods, the Work Opportunity Tax Credit to promote middle-income job growth, and the renewable energy tax credits. In fact, while proposing today to make permanent the American Opportunity Tax Credit, which expires in 2017, Republicans expose a key concern that the 2017 expiration of the expansions to the refundable portion of the Child Tax Credit will not be addressed in the piecemeal approach Republicans are pursuing. It’s safe to say the Republican tax reform train has derailed and that the collateral damage is everywhere.
06.25.2014	Wanted to make sure you saw Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sandy Levin’s (D-MI) interview with Rep. John Mica (R-FL) yesterday on PBS NewsHour to discuss the Republican-led investigation into the IRS. You can watch the segment here. Lois Lerner’s crashed hard drive: “There's zero – zero – evidence that there was any intentional effort by Lois Lerner or by anyone else.” “At our hearing, there was dragged out a letter going back to 2011, and the claim was that [Lois Lerner] was tipped off, and therefore the implication was that she destroyed her computer. It turned out that letter had nothing to do with the inappropriate criteria that were being used.” A “culture of cover-up”: “They say there's no evidence then make charges. They talk about a culture of cover-up, a White House enemy's list. There’s been zero, zero proof of that, and they continue this desperate effort to connect this to the White House, and they should stop. This should not be an inquisition.” A "legitimate concern about the use of 501(c)(4)s”: “There is a legitimate concern about the use of 501(c)(4)s, because they're supposed to relate to social welfare predominantly, and you have today the use of 501(c)(4)s for essentially political purposes… In 2006, there was $1 million used reported to the FEC for political purposes by 501(c)(4)s, that jumped to $250 million by 2012. Half of it came from Karl Rove and Koch Brother organizations.”
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the bipartisan bill introduced today by Senators Jack Reed (D-RI) and Dean Heller (R-NV) to extend emergency unemployment insurance: “The bipartisan bill introduced today in the Senate answers Speaker Boehner's demands that any extension of unemployment benefits be paid for and be provided only on a prospective basis. The bill could be easily combined with upcoming legislation to fund transportation improvements or to extend tax breaks to meet the Speaker's final demand that any UI extension be part of larger legislation that will create jobs. The time for excuses is long over. Three million Americans – including nearly 300,000 veterans – have now lost their unemployment benefits because of Republican obstructionism. We must act now.” ###
06.20.2014	On Sept. 11, 2013, the Internal Revenue Service provided this Committee with one of the 770,000 pages of documents it has turned over since Ways and Means undertook its investigation into the IRS in May 2013. In total, more than 250 IRS employees have spent over 120,000 hours working to produce documents at a cost of at least $16 million to taxpayers. That document received last September included an email from Lois Lerner to other IRS personnel dated June 14, 2011. It began, “My computer crashed yesterday.” We now know the full extent of that equipment failure. Despite an exhaustive effort by forensic IT professionals at the Internal Revenue Service, they were unable to save her hard drive and her emails between January 1, 2009 and April 2011. Although her emails from January 2009 to April 2011 are unrecoverable from her hard drive, the IRS will produce 67,000 emails related to Lois Lerner. The IRS has or will be producing 24,000 emails that have been recovered from the period before her computer crashed. They recovered these emails from other IRS employees. That is on top of more than 43,000 emails involving Ms. Lerner after April 2011 that already have been produced. There is absolutely no evidence to show that Ms. Lerner’s computer crash was anything more than equipment failure. At the time of the incident, in June 2011, IRS computer experts reviewed the issue and informed Lois Lerner that “unfortunately, the news is not good. The sectors on the hard drive were bad, which made your data unrecoverable.” Was her computer crash a conspiracy? No. Was the Internal Revenue Service’s system for backing up its email system entirely underfunded and wholly deficient? Yes. In fact, Congress has cut the IRS budget for operations – which includes what it spends on computers and other information technology – every year for the last five years. House Republicans are proposing to slash it once again next year. Commissioner Koskinen, whom we welcome here today, has informed this Committee that the IRS has $1 billion worth of computer equipment and that the agency should be spending $150 million to $200 million on maintenance for that equipment. Instead, the agency spends virtually nothing, because it can’t afford to properly maintain what it has. It is important to remember that emails were routinely lost during the Bush administration. In one instance in 2007, according to a report from Democrats on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, the Bush White House acknowledged having lost nearly 5 million emails between March 2003 and October 2005 related to allegations of the politically motivated dismissal of U.S. Attorneys. Lost data under the Bush Administration coupled with the number of computer crashes at the IRS clearly demonstrate the need for government agencies to have adequate budgets to invest, upgrade, and maintain information technology. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have taken this opportunity to rehash well-worn allegations of White House involvement – allegations that Republicans have made from the very moment the Inspector General released his report more than a year ago. On the day the report was released, before a congressional investigation into the issue had even begun, Chairman Issa accused the White House of “targeting its political enemies.” Three days later, Chairman Camp, in your opening statement during the first hearing on this matter, you accused the White House of a “culture of cover-up.” Congressional Republicans are so determined to find a needle in the haystack that they seek desperately to add to the haystack even though no needle has been discovered. It was in that vein that Chairman Camp this week said that “this entire case started with the White House” and sent a letter to the President requesting all correspondence between Lois Lerner and the Executive Office of the President between January 2009 and May 2011, the period before Ms. Lerner’s hard drive crashed. The White House has conducted that search and what have they found? There was not a single email correspondence sent to or from Ms. Lerner and the White House. This Committee has been involved in this investigation for over a year. Here is what we have learned: The 501(c)(4) applications of both conservative and progressive groups were inappropriately screened. There were long delays in processing applications. There was serious mismanagement and I was among the first to call for Ms. Lerner and then-Commissioner Miller to be relieved of their duties. In all of the 770,000 pages of documents that the IRS has supplied congressional committees, including ours, there has not been any evidence of political motivation or White House involvement. Now there have been computer failures at the IRS, and Republican conspiracy theories have started anew. The evidence to date reinforces the long-evident truth: The prevailing conspiracy in this matter is that of the Republican desire to stir their base, tie the problem to the White House, and keep up this drumbeat until the November election. I’m glad that Commissioner Koskinen is here with us today to set the record straight. Commissioner Koskinen started as the IRS Commissioner last December after a distinguished career in the private and public sectors. At OMB, at Freddie Mac and as the Chair of President Clinton’s Y2K computer council. We welcome your testimony, Commissioner. ####
06.17.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member appeared on Bloomberg TV’s Market Makers this morning to discuss Medtronic’s acquisition of Ireland-based Covidien. Rep. Levin last month introduced the Stop Corporate Inversions Act of 2014, legislation to tighten the rules to prevent corporate inversions. ***WATCH VIDEO*** ON CORPORATE INVERSIONS “Essentially, companies are keeping major operations here and they are combining, but doing that in order to pay fewer taxes by essentially setting up the domicile in other places. I think we need to very seriously look at the inversion issue. My brother and I have introduced legislation to do just that. It is interesting. Apparently, in the contract between the two companies, they indicate their deal is off if Congress acts. I think that shows that the basic purpose of this combination is related to taxes and not the other aspects of their operations. This is an effort to lower their tax rate.” ON THE NEED TO TIGHTEN INVERSION RULES AND MAKE U.S. MORE ATTRACTIVE FOR COMPANIES “I think you have to do both. You have to have tax reform. You also want to make it more attractive. But you also don't want companies to leave the U.S. and simply change their domicile in order to pay lower taxes. We could have a lower tax, but still Ireland would be lower. And companies would continue to invert. And keep their operations -- their major operations -- in the U.S. you don't want to do things that will hurt the tax structure of this country, and also hurt the effort of companies that are basically American companies to stay here. Remember, Medtronic uses the R&D tax credit in this country, a rather significant one. We do not want companies to move their headquarters overseas, while retaining all of the benefits they get from being an American company. R&D is just one of them. They get other benefits from being here. You should not simply say to them, ok, change where you are located, pay much lower taxes, or you maintain the benefits of being essentially an American company.” ON THE IMPACT OF CORPORATE INVERSIONS ON U.S. ECONOMY “There is a benefit [for shareholders to] moving overseas, but that has a major impact on the economy of this country. Shareholders have a stake in the structure that American companies not only essentially keep their roots here, but also do not essentially move overseas in name in order to pay lower taxes. That has all kinds of economic consequences for the U.S. and our economy. We need to look at this. We are going to meet with Medtronic in a few minutes, with some of their officials, to discuss this. That is what is going on. I think Democrats and Republicans should join together and say, look, this is an issue, and we need to deal with it, and deal with it effectively. And that is why we have introduced this legislation.” ON MEETING WITH MEDTRONIC OFFICIALS “We need to discuss with them why they are doing this and what their plans are. They say they are going to invest more in the U.S., essentially by moving overseas. But we have to remember that unless we have a tax structure that makes sense -- if companies can simply invert and move their name overseas, it will have an impact on this country in the long run as well as the short run. We want to sit down and ask them why they are doing this. And also, I would like to ask them why they have a provision in the contract between the two countries that if this legislation is passed, the deal is off.” ON THE NEED FOR COMPREHENSIVE TAX REFORM “Chairman [Camp] and I set up some working groups. Democratic and Republican members sitting down to discuss different aspects of tax reform. But then Chairman Camp and Republicans in the House decided to go their own way. And we were not involved in the putting together the tax reform package after those initial working groups. We said to him very clearly, and to all of the Republicans, you have to do this on a bipartisan basis to make tax reform work. They decided to do it otherwise. I am more than willing, and anxious to continue this effort of bipartisan tax reform. But they made the decision to go it alone, and as a result they have a package that is not even acceptable within their own ranks.” ON PASSING THE STOP CORPORATE INVERSIONS ACT OF 2014 “I think these two bills have helped to spotlight that this is an issue that needs to be seriously addressed. And by the way, the package that Chairman Camp put together does not address the whole problem of these companies changing to essentially lower their tax rates. We need to look at that, and these bills are intended to open up the subject. We need to question as we did with Pfizer. It was different than this one. I'd acknowledge that. You have to look at each of these seriously.” ###
05.07.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on the House floor in opposition to the Republican resolution calling for a Special Counsel to investigate the IRS: “This Institution must not be turned into an arm of either political party. That’s what House Republicans are doing here. It’s been a year since multiple committee investigations began into the IRS handling of 501 c 4 organizations – and Republicans are no closer to finding evidence to back up their baseless allegations of a ‘White House enemies list’ or a ‘White House culture of cover-up,’ as Republicans said on Day 1. “Here’s what is going on: More than 250 employees at the IRS have worked more than 100,000 hours and sent nearly 700,000 pages of documents to Ways and Means in response to Republican requests. More than 60 interviews have been conducted. $14 million in taxpayer money has been spent by the IRS responding to the Congressional Investigations. “And here is what we know: Documents show that the IRS used inappropriate criteria to treat progressive groups as they did for Conservative Groups. There was never any evidence of White House involvement. Nada. There was never any evidence of political motivation. In fact, before the flawed audit was published last May, the IG’s head of investigations reviewed 5,500 pages of documents and determined that there was ‘no indication that pulling these selected applications was politically motivated.’ Instead, the head of investigations said the cases were consolidated due to ‘unclear processing directions.’ “So now Republicans have indicated that they think that this action today is necessary because the Department of Justice did not react quickly enough to the referral of information from Ways and Means on Lois Lerner that was sent last month. There is a letter from the Department of Justice saying that they have received the information and have referred it those in charge of the IRS investigation at Justice. “So the Republicans say they want an independent investigation – but they really want to do is to interrupt the investigation going on and pre-empt it with their own political theatre. “This is the House of Representatives, not a political circus. I ask my colleagues to see this for what it is worth and vote no on the Resolution.” ###
05.01.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after it was announced that 272,539 people had signed up for private health insurance in Michigan through the Affordable Care Act’s insurance marketplace, beating expectations: “Americans want quality, affordable health insurance and have found it within the Affordable Care Act. Individuals and families in Michigan and throughout the country signed up for health insurance in numbers far beyond expectations. The more than 272,000 people who signed up for coverage in Michigan make up a broad cross-section of the population, with more than a third of enrollees under the age of 35. No matter who signed up or what insurance they purchased, everyone can now rest assured that their insurance company cannot drop coverage when they get sick or deny coverage for a preexisting condition. These enrollment numbers offer the firmest evidence yet that the Affordable Care Act is working.” ###
05.01.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after it was announced that Ford CEO Alan Mulally would step down from Ford in July: Alan Mulally has written himself into the history books during his exceptional tenure at Ford. He successfully steered Ford through the automaker’s darkest hour and his vision and leadership proved instrumental in revitalizing one of our nation’s great companies. The vast expanse of his vision was reflected in his vital support for necessary government assistance to help keep alive the entire domestic auto industry. In a further tribute to his leadership, he leaves Ford in very capable hands, with the company’s future as bright as it has been in decades. I have been privileged to work actively with Alan Mulally on international trade issues significant for American industry and to develop a friendship that I am sure will continue as he leaves Ford Motor Company.” ###
05.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement in response to Secretary Sebelius’s announcement of final ACA enrollment numbers: “This is further proof that there is enormous demand for affordable health coverage. The 8 million Americans who selected a plan through the insurance marketplaces – and 4.8 million additional individuals who enrolled in Medicaid and CHIP – far exceeds expectations from even a few weeks ago. The ACA is working to bring health security throughout the nation and in Michigan, where more than 272,000 people selected plans.” ###
04.29.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today sent a letter to House Speaker John Boehner to share the stories of Americans who have been cut off of unemployment benefits because of the program’s Dec. 28 lapse, and called on him to bring to the House floor the bipartisan, fully paid for Senate bill. The letter can be read in full below. A PDF copy of the letter is here. Dear Speaker Boehner, The stories of job-seeking Americans whose unemployment insurance was cut off December 28 are gut-wrenching. And more and more Americans are describing their ordeal every day that the House fails to renew these benefits. During the course of just a few hours last week, more than five dozen Americans submitted their stories to the Ways and Means Committee after simply being asked to describe how getting cut off of benefits has affected them. I share a sample of these stories because they inspire a sense of urgency as Congress reconvenes. I hope that you will receive them as if they were here in person because if they were able to walk the halls of Congress and tell their stories I am confident this institution would not turn its back on them. As you know, the Senate in early April passed a bipartisan, fully paid-for bill to extend unemployment benefits for five months. You said recently that “we get elected to make choices. We get elected to solve problems.” Our nation has a long-term unemployed problem, with 35% of the unemployed out of work for more than six months. I urge that these stories illustrate the need for the House to act so that a financial lifeline can be restored to 2.8 million Americans, keeping them tied to the labor force they so desperately seek to return to and benefitting the American economy. Mr. Speaker, I urge you to permit a debate and vote on the Senate-passed bill. Sincerely, Sander Levin Daniels, Cincinnati, OhioI own my home and I am faced with losing it over delinquent property taxes. I'm losing the car I had. Got a title loan to job search and eat. My child needs new school shoes and coat and clothes. Not to mention utilities and insuring. Dishwasher broke first today dryer broke. In the winter our pipes broke. I feel like people are killing themselves so kids will get fed. It breaks my heart. Please help us. Natalie, Tucson, ArizonaI was the sole employee of a sole proprietor. He retired in January 2013. Two months prior to his retirement I started looking for new employment in the same field. I continued looking in the field for several months after. Unemployment Insurance was the only means for me to pay my housing and transportation costs to continue to search for employment. Then the engine in my car blew. I started riding the bus to any interview I could get. Now I don't have any means to get to an interview. As of April 30th I will become homeless because I owe 4 months rent. My landlord carried me as long as he could. By the grace of god I still have my phone thanks to my brother who has 2 kids in college. I continue a diligent work search at my local library but now I will be without an address. Alisa, Corona, CaliforniaMy husband lost his job just one month after losing his mother. On 5/3/2013 we were thrown into a kind of chaos we had never known. Married for 20 years, both of us had always worked - three kids, two dogs and a mortgage on the house we have lived in for 17 years. We used his 401K to survive, in addition to the unemployment payments he received right up to December 28th. Unemployment he had never collected in his 30+ years of working. I am a Special education Teacher, supporting a family of five. My salary is good, but not quite enough to support an entire household. For the past three months we have played the "which bill can we not pay" game. It is unconscionable for Republicans to be so cavalier about the unemployed, especially since it's been passed when unemployment was lower than it is now. We did everything right, worked hard, raised a family, paid our taxes - and now that we need help, those who have been elected to serve the people are only interested in serving themselves. Aaron, Escondido, CaliforniaI very rarely insert myself in discussions involving politics. However, I feel compelled to share my story considering how it is a microcosm of what is going on in the country as a result of the political gridlock that has resulted in the expiration of unemployment benefits for millions of millions of Americans. I joined those ranks this week. It's a scary time for my family, as we have literally one $100 bill left and will not be able to pay our rent next month. I have a 10 year old son and a 4 year old daughter, and the specter of them being homeless rips at my insides on a nightly basis. Am I a lazy freeloader who is living off the government? No. I have looked for work high and low, with no success. Should my family be penalized because two political parties cannot reach some type of consensus? I would like to believe that wouldn't happen, but the reality is that this is happening to me and the millions of people left in a crushing limbo. Michael, Lomita, CaliforniaI worked consistently from 1972 through 2013. My company closed its location and I was laid off. I have been very aggressive in applying and interviewing for jobs. I have also been assisting my girlfriend pay for her chemotherapy medication. In December my Unemployment was discontinued. In the past few months I have ruined my good credit, begged relatives to help me pay rent, and been told I was "an entitled scavenger". I have also had to watch my girlfriend skip her steroid shots, too humiliated at not being able to pay. Apparently some politicians believe rent payments and bill collectors can be put off. Apparently they believe Leukemia can, too. After having worked for decades, I feel so betrayed by my country the one moment in my life I need help. Genesis, Patterson, CaliforniaI lost my job June 2013, I had unemployment for 6 months before it was not extended. The effects of losing my unemployment were quick and severe. My husband works 10 hours a day and commutes 3 hours a day but we still couldn't afford to keep our rental. We were evicted, forced to move a half an hour longer away from where we were already living and commuting for work. We are constantly struggling to keep food in our fridge, and our utilities on. For my 27th birthday this year we had to borrow money from family to pay $200 to PG&E to keep our gas on. I have a 2 year old son who is effected by this everyday but we do everything we can to hide our pure stress. My husband works hard, commutes everyday but we are drowning. I have had interviews and applied to places that are offering half of what I used to make. I am a corporate level Admin, I have history working in a major corporate settings and CPA firms. The market is horrible, I have never in my life had a problem landing a job. If we get our unemployment extended, even for just the 5 months, I can pay growing utility bills, fix our one car that is our major lifeline, and put money away for bills and food until I can find any job that will have me. Desperation set in months ago, now every time something breaks in my house-I can't help but cry. Knowing full well I cannot replace anything. Wendy, Sacramento, CaliforniaI am a 30-year-old woman with a young child and husband. I was laid off from my renewable energy administrative job in May 2013. Since that time I have submitted countless applications and had only 3 interviews, 2 of which I’m still waiting to hear back from. I was so thankful to have received UI benefits to help my family survive, but since it ended on Dec 28, our finances have drastically gone downhill. We are past due on nearly every bill, despite cutting out everything but necessities. I know that I’m a good worker and I know that I have done everything in my power to get a job, but nothing is coming. I feel as though I am swimming as hard as I can, yet I’m still drowning. I am embarrassed, I am ashamed, and I am angry that my family is on the verge of losing everything. If there’s one thing I’d like for all Americans to understand, is that UI benefits are truly a lifeline to workers who lost their job to no fault of their own. We are not out living it up; most people can’t do that even if they wanted to (UI benefits are on average 36% of the workers former wages). What we are doing with that money is paying for necessities like rent, gas, utilities, and food for our family. I never thought I’d be in this position and one day it could be you. Kristen, San Diego, CaliforniaMay 2013 I lost my job of 8 years (20 years with the organization), I was able to collect unemployment for six months from my state, then switched to federal unemployment. Then in December was cut off just like millions of others. My two boys and I were not living this high life while receiving unemployment. It was paying the bills and putting food on the table. To date I have applied to 260 different jobs, some with my former field and mostly others outside of my field. With each rejection letter I become more depressed, all I want to do is work and provide for my children. With a lack of income, I had to go apply for welfare. The welfare amount given to me does not cover all of my bills, without the help of family I have no ideas where I would be. Robert, North Ft. Myers, FloridaUnemployment insurance makes things possible that I could not otherwise get. Things like prescriptions, toiletries, cleaning supplies and some cooking supplies. I have been unemployed since November and the unemployment checks have already run out. Randall, Powder Springs, GeorgiaI'm in dire need of the Congress to reinstate unemployment. Thank God my wife has been carrying me this whole time most people don't have anyone to help out in their household. I've been looking for a job very hard in these times. I have even went to the local 32 Union Hall and got on their list for a call back but still haven't received a call. So I am asking you on the 28th to reinstate the federal unemployment assistance. Thank you and God bless America. Annie, Chicago, IllinoisI am college educated with 30+ years experience and a very current skill set. I support 4 teenagers (left abusive husband 10 years ago) solely on my own. Lost my job along w/112 others in 7//2013 due to sale of my division to competitor with better systems whose own employees took over the work. I never received any EUC; my IL state benefit ran out in 1/14. I am desperate. Five years ago I would get calls from recruiters; now at age 50 and having done over 500 online applications - each resume and cover letter tailored to the specific position - I have still received NO job offers. I can hardly land interviews for positions paying $20K less than my previous salary. You folks need to do the right thing and pass SB3979 or HR4415 in the House on 4/28. Payments would maybe happen in May. June will be too late for all 3 MILLION of us. Working class folks cannot go 6 months with no incomes. There HAS to be a way to bring it up for vote. So many [long-term unemployed] cannot beg or borrow any more money and we have literally lost a lifetime of security in only 4 months." Nichole, Decatur, IllinoisI am a mother of 4 boys, I am 34 years old and have worked since the day I turned 14, I had been at my last employer for 5 years and am laid off due to lack of work. I have an associate's degree in business administration and am 16 credits short of having my bachelor's degree in business management. I have not received a check for unemployment since December 28th. I feel as if I have worked my whole life and never asked for a hand out and now I am barely making ends meet! I have used my savings and without this passing and back pay I will lose everything. Lori, Pleasant Valley, IowaIn July 2013 my administrative position of 16 years was eliminated due to economic downturn. At that time I was forced to rely on unemployment benefits to maintain my household. I have applied for jobs daily since that time. As a 52 year old female, I am either over qualified or under qualified. I feel age has played a huge factor in my job search. My 26 weeks of unemployment benefits ended in January 2014. With no income I have used all of my savings and retirement funds. I am now on the verge of losing my home to foreclosure. I have worked my entire life and have never asked for any type of assistance. I am now on food stamps and Medicaid. I never thought I would get to this point. I pray that the House approves the extension of unemployment benefits and job training to give me a needed hand out of this horrible situation. Danielle, Lexington, KentuckyI lost my job in March 2013. I came back from vacation that morning and was handed my pink slip. I'm a single mother but I'm 45. I would have never thought I would be out of work this long! I applied for jobs before I even went to the unemployment office, but soon realized I was going to have to make a change. I lived in Corbin at the time so I cashed out my 401k and moved to Lexington where I thought I would have more opportunity. But the truth is there is little opportunity anywhere in KY. I have gone back to school and am in a nursing program but even that hasn't helped. It will in the future but I haven't even been able to get interviews for housekeeping and food service jobs. I need help!!! Debbie, Baltimore, MarylandI have been working since can remember. I have been working for this one company since 1998. Well I was let go in 5/2013. I am a 58 year old female. I have been looking for work for almost a year and still am. I have exhausted all my saving to get by. I am currently attending a community college to attain my GED while I look for work. When I was getting the unemployment benefits I was able to get by with paying of bills. I’m really afraid that I will become homeless unless the benefits are extended or I find employment. I am very discouraged about finding a job because of my age. Please extend the benefits I am not asking for more. Sharon, Edgewater, MarylandPlease act to reinstate the long term unemployment. Time is running out for me in my position. Not only are my savings gone but my credit is being ruined as well. I am not lazy and look for work every day but until I do find work these benefits are keeping me a viable, employable American. Michael, Chesterfield Twp., MichiganI am in the construction industry (skilled trades) and was laid off Aug 5, 2013. In part due to the miserable winter and in part due to the still struggling economy in southeast Michigan, I haven't been able to find long term employment. I have worked for 5 different companies since August, knowing they could only hire me for a couple weeks because they just didn't have enough work to keep me. I was never fired, never laid off due to a lack of skill or insubordination or for not being a hard enough worker or for any reason except a lack of work. Each contractor told me they were happy with my performance on the job and wished they could keep me longer, as well as, taking the extra step of letting me know the door was open for my return once they landed more jobs and needed to hire again. I am now out of unemployment and waiting for a call. I don't want to be another "foreclosed" statistic. I don't want to be the family in the neighborhood that lost their home. I don't want my children to have to change schools. I don't want my kids to have to move from the home they feel safe in and have known their entire short lives. I don't want to be a failure! Members of Congress, you can help me and others just like me. You can extend and/or reinstate benefits for a short time to help us weather this storm. A new job is within reach, I can feel it! I just need a little more time, a little help from all of you. Glen, Clinton Twp., MichiganI am a Skilled Building Tradesman of 26 years. My world has been turned upside down in the last seven years. This Michigan economy has not bounced back the way other states have. As a Union Sheetmetal Worker, I CAN leave this state and be productive elsewhere. Am I stupid for staying on a sinking ship? My daughter has two more years before graduating High School. I will make my choice then. Why can we not throw out a lifeline for our citizens during this turmoil. Comeback has not happened for my family, and at this rate I will be off the Marvin rolls and seeking help from others, at a cost to the taxpayers. Mind you.... I was one for over 30 years. Bill, Taylor, MichiganI have been working in building trades since 1999. As work began to slow I was forced to look for work outside Michigan only after I began to lose things. The extension helped me out tremendously because...well since nobody cares...gas is not free...food is not free…required expensive auto insurance is not free. Without an extension I would join the growing number of folks whom now live under bridges. I can’t even find a scholarship to go back for training because I’m not on welfare. Skyler, Minneapolis, MinnesotaI've been unemployed for the past year after getting laid off from the school district where I was gaining experience to be a teacher. I took classes in the evening as well as online and worked a part time job while looking for a full time job. Unemployment was a way for me to make ends meet. I finally found a job teaching and was accepted to graduate school but need to pass licensing tests to teach, these tests costs money about $125 each one and I need to pass 4. I have no more money to take these, therefore in essence by not extending unemployment republicans are preventing me from working not "helping me find a job" as Speaker Boehner says he is. Debbie, Festus, MissouriI lost my job back in November, just last week I exhausted my unemployment benefits. I am a single mother of two daughters. The only income I have coming in now is my child support, which is not enough to live on. I am about to lose everything if this doesn't pass. I have applied to so many jobs, went on numerous interviews and nothing. I am soon going to be homeless, because I can't pay for rent. I don't know what else to do, I have never had to worry about this before. I am depressed, can't sleep. I don't want to be here anymore because I can't provide for myself or my daughters. Stephanie, Middle Village, New YorkI have just recently become unemployed (9/13/13) and ever since then been applying for jobs both in my skill set and outside of it. But ever since my initial 26 weeks of unemployment ran out it has gotten harder and harder to look for work and pay the bills let alone put food on the table. This unemployment extension must be put through because by not having that amount of money weekly it only gets harder to look for work because you have no way of paying for public transportation to get to that interview. Patricia, Rochester, New YorkI am very grateful for my state's support in my participation in the 599 program so I can upgrade my skills to re-enter the workforce in New York. When my benefits lapsed January 6, 2014 through April, 2014 I was uncertain if I would be able to complete my training. I had no gas money to get to my program and my attendance was poor during the winter months I maxed out my credit, and sold belongings and even resorted to dumpster diving to find objects to sell to pay my rent and bills. I consider myself to be one of the lucky ones. The GOP neglected to understand that UI cuts to job trainees runs counterproductive to the intent of the Skills Act HR 803. It is outrageous and ludicrous that opponents deny assistance to those in the process of upgrading their skills, albeit longer than 26 weeks. It is pure double talk. Gratefully, in April I received new state funding and anticipate graduating in June. I hopeful that I will find work at age 60! Mitch, Henderson, NevadaI am a 55 year old Republican. I lost my job in 3/13. It is the FIRST time I’ve ever been out of work and on UI or any Govt help. I lost my job to no fault of my own after 8 years. I have been sincere about looking for work. I am an innocent sincere jobless human being who happens to vote Republican. My UI ended 12/28/13. Since I have had to sell much of what I had to pay rent and main bills. My family helps me when they can. But I am at my wit’s end. Come May I am out of ideas and not much left to sell. And do not see a way to pay my rent. I have gone to bed hungry more than once. It has gotten to point where I do not have gas to put into car to look for work. And my internet will be turned off May 2. And will not be able to even look for work. I have worked my entire life since I was 18. And for the first time need some help. Please don’t turn your back on me. Richard, Springfield, OregonSeptember 4 2013, on the same day, my wife and I lost our jobs. Both age related. Over 60, the company she worked for wrongfully fired her, admitted this gave her a small settlement. My place of employment was laying off, firing employees, many older employees lost their jobs, one had a heart attack and died. My wife. Well-educated, highly experienced could not find employment. Eventually she was hired for much less than her last job. I have had a number of interviews with no success, I do addiction work, and treatment has went away from successful outcomes. My skills do not meet the new standard, I was very successful and this is not a desirable skill set anymore. Denise, Bensalem, PennsylvaniaI am a 47 year old divorced woman. I have 20 plus years experience as a medical receptionist/biller and many other duties. I was laid off a year ago. I apply for work and go on interviews with no luck. Now that the EUC ended I lost my phone and if I didn't have an amazing family I would be on the streets. I can't keep asking them for money. I no longer can afford to pay for gas. I can't buy anything. I am begging you to please pass EUC benefits and not so much for me but for the people who lost their homes and can't eat. Megan, North Wales, PennsylvaniaI have been unemployed for 13 months. Up until December my children and I were struggling but making ends meet. When UE stopped on December 28 our life support was cut off. It's extremely difficult to raise 2 children alone without money. Job hunting is a full time commitment and it is also very expensive. I was unable to maintain payments or insurance on my car so I have to rely on friends and family for rides or for money to take public transportation. My landlord's kindness is dwindling and my children and I are looking at the harsh reality of being homeless. I worry about the bills, the future but I mostly worry about the emotional long term this is going to have on my children. When I lost my job my children's sense of security was rocked but with unemployment payments we were able to keep our heads up but now we have been rocked beyond comprehension and we are fearful. My children are afraid and this is not a burden they should have to carry. I pray for common sense to prevail within the government so that they will #renewui and give families a fighting chance at survival. Crystal, Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaI'm 48 years old. Worked all my adult life, raised 3 children, paid for my home, paid my taxes. Always had a job never used unemployment. Lost last job at no fault of my own June 2013, now they say I'm lazy. Wow. Working 30 years without every asking for help. I played by the rules now I can't pay my bills. 200+ applications nothing. Got one call but had no money to go to interview. Claire, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaAfter more than 30 years loyalty, I was laid off and have been unemployed over a year. I have applied for hundreds and hundreds of jobs and have so far been unsuccessful. I originally hoped to make about the same amount of money as my last job, now I hope to get a job, making ANY amount and I still cannot find anything! It is very difficult to manage a household with two children and a husband who has been laid off three times in the last year. I understand the huge cost of the extension, but I hear the government approved to send tens of millions of help to the Ukraine, just last week. What About help for Us Americans? Barbara, Abbeville, South CarolinaMy whole life has been spent working starting at about 8 years old picking strawberries, then babysitting and cutting grass, cleaning houses, working in tobacco and finally at 15 I got my social security card and started working and paying taxes. My company went out of business overnight without any notice. I have been searching for a job for a year now. I went to an interview last week and was so excited about finally finding a job and paying the people back that have been helping me since 12/28/13. Needless to say they hired the younger person for the position, I am 57 years old and a cancer survivor. I could have got on disability when I had cancer, but I wanted to go back to work and I did 2 weeks after treatments. I have never drawn unemployment before now and it really helped a lot, now I am having to borrow money from family and friends just to have gas and pay my insurance to go to a interview. I am expecting my roommate to evict me at any time. I feel so hopeless, had to swallow my pride and get food stamps so I could at least eat. It would be a Godsend to me to receive the unemployment retroactive money to try and start my own business and get back to work. Please help me! Ron, Knoxville, TennesseeI was laid off by the hospital that I worked at for ten plus years a year ago tomorrow. I have applied to over two hundred fifty companies to yield three callbacks and none have hired me. I lost my benefits like the almost three million others due to Congress allowing them to expire. We have since had power cut off once internet and cable still out. We are getting food stamps, Tenncare and I am thankful for that (my wife had her gall bladder removed last Friday) she is not working for two weeks with her meager hours she gets no sick or vacation pay so not sure how May will go. I will give up retroactive payments if they will let a steady flow of income come back in. I would gladly take any job that would take me. However my flawless track record as a health professional is obviously not enough. Janet, Montpelier, VirginiaI strongly believe that Emergency Unemployment Insurance benefits should be extended. At 60 years old and my husband at 64, we are struggling financially and emotionally worse than we ever have in our lives. I pride myself and my husband for being good citizens and hardworking tax payers all our adult lives, but it is disheartening to be faced with our situation in life at this time. ###
04.29.2014	(Remarks as Delivered) There are merits to the six tax provisions being considered today. I am among those who have favored extending the Research and Experimentation Tax Credit and I support other provisions before us. But the manner in which Republicans are proceeding – selecting six of the approximately 60 tax provisions that expired last year to make permanent, without any offsets – is both fiscally irresponsible and fundamentally hypocritical. And its implications are deeply troublesome. The Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated that the bills, without an offset, would add a combined $310 billion to the deficit. To put that figure into context, that total represents more than half of the entire federal deficit this year – which I should note is the lowest it has been since President Obama took office. The total represents nearly two-thirds of all non-defense domestic discretionary spending in 2014. It is more than three times what we spend annually on education, job training and social services. It is five times more than we spend on veterans. And it is five times more than we spend on medical research and public health. Left to an uncertain fate are provisions like the Work Opportunity Tax Credit, the American Opportunity Tax Credit, the New Markets Tax Credit and the renewable energy tax credits, as well as the long-range status of the EITC and the Child Tax Credit. To say that Republican action today is hypocritical is a serious understatement. Four months ago, Republicans let emergency unemployment insurance expire for more than 1.3 million Americans by arguing that an adequate offset had yet to be proposed. In early April, the Senate came to a bipartisan agreement on an offset after months of painstaking negotiations. Yet House Republicans still refuse to act. Every day, I receive letters from people affected. One mother of four from Decatur, Illinois, wrote last week that she is on the verge of “losing everything,” as she put it. “I feel as if I have worked my whole life and never asked for a handout and now I am barely making ends meet,” she wrote. Mr. Chairman, it wasn’t long ago that you declared that “the path to our economic recovery starts with fiscal responsibility in Washington.” This approach today flies smack in the face of fiscal responsibility. Fiscal responsibility should not simply be a slogan. ###
04.10.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after it was announced that Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius would resign: Kathleen Sebelius has led with dignity and determination. At all times, she put the health of the American people and the overwhelming need to reform our health care system first. She came to the position with a distinguished career in public service and she continued to impress with her hard work, talents, grace and forthrightness. When things went well she gave others credit, and when times were rocky she took full responsibility. It was my pleasure to work with her in her role as Secretary of Health and Human Services, and I am fully confident that she will continue to make a major contribution to the needs and aspirations of Americans in all walks of life. I wish her all of the best." ###
04.09.2014	(Remarks as Prepared) I was among the first to call for Lois Lerner to resign and for her to be relieved from her duties. This executive session isn’t about any of us condoning the mismanagement at the IRS tax exempt division. And, it certainly isn’t about any of us condoning potential criminal activity. Indeed, the Justice Department is investigating the entire matter to determine whether there should be criminal charges. The Justice Department has access to all of the same documents as we do. They have the ability to conduct interviews of all involved and to compel testimony. Nearly a year ago, the investigation by this committee started with a bipartisan request for documents on May 14. It quickly got off those tracks with a declaration by Chairman Camp on May 17 that the IRS matter was the “latest example of a culture of cover-ups and political intimidation in this Administration.” That started a year-long effort to pursue a failed effort to prove White House involvement, pursuit of an enemies list, or targeting of only conservative groups. All of those claims were false. I saw John Boehner on Fox News on Monday night. And Chairman Issa is having an Oversight and Government Reform meeting on Thursday to hold Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress. It now seems clear that Republican members of the Ways and Means Committee have decided that they do not want to be left behind in the Republican campaign to declare this a scandal and keep it going until November. Making this Committee an arm of any Campaign Committee does a deep disservice to the proud traditions and legacy of this Committee. Mr. Chairman, this action we are embarking on causes us tremendous concern and deep distress about the reputation of our Committee. Look around. This is the prestigious Ways and Means Committee. I don’t understand why you are doing this Mr. Chairman. You have hand selected information that you believe proves your case from the about 700,000 documents provided during this investigation. You have given Members 24 hours to look at it. And, you have not provided them the necessary authority to look at any other documents, beyond what is included in the notebooks, so that members could reach a conclusion on their own. Today, you are asking the members of this Committee to approve a letter urging the Department of Justice to pursue a criminal investigation of Lois Lerner. One that is already ongoing. One that her lawyers have indicated she has already been interviewed as part of. And you are doing so in a manner that makes public previously protected taxpayer information. Indeed, Mr. Chairman, this Committee enacted these taxpayer protections to prevent the use of taxpayer information for any other use than the administration of our tax laws. The provision under which you claim authority to release this information – Section 6103(f) – was enacted in response to the inappropriate use of taxpayer information by the Nixon Administration. The very disclosure that you put to a vote today violates the very taxpayer protections this Committee meant to create. And, when was the only time on record that this committee has taken this unprecedented step? In 1974, Chairman Mills – after an audit by the Joint Committee on Taxation of President Nixon’s tax returns, which was requested by President Nixon – made a bipartisan report to the House of the President’s tax returns, thus making them public. It should give all of us serious concern that we are taking our Committee down this road today. You claim that the only way you can point out to the Attorney General that you think you have found specific evidence that criminal activity has taken place by Ms. Lerner is to make all of this material – previously considered protected taxpayer information – public. Mr. Chairman, that is just not accurate. The Department of Justice has access to all of the same information. If you are afraid they might have missed something, you can designate the Attorney General or his designee with your 6103 authority as Chair of the Ways and Means Committee – just as you did for the other Members of this Committee – for him to review it. You certainly don’t need to erode the prestige of this committee by having us use – for political purposes – this sacred obligation we have to safeguard taxpayer information. I wish I could come up with some other rationale for what you are doing, but I cannot. I hope you will reconsider. ###
04.08.2014	A bipartisan group of 46 House lawmakers have joined together to urge a key House committee to provide sustained funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations panel with jurisdiction over environmental programs, the lawmakers called for $300 million in 2015 for GLRI. The letter was spearheaded by Michigan Reps. Sander Levin and John Dingell, along with Reps Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and David Joyce (R-OH). A copy of the letter is below. The GLRI is a five-year-old effort to protect, restore and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. The inter-agency program provides funding to address vital environmental issues in the Great Lakes, such as cleaning up contaminated sediments, reducing polluted runoff, mitigating habitat degradation and loss, and addressing invasive species such as the Asian carp. The program has invested $1.6 billion in Great Lakes restoration over the last five years. The GLRI casts a broad net to collect the best ideas from local units of government, environmental organization, citizens groups, and universities. The program provides federal resources to fund local solutions that respond to local restoration priorities. The GLRI grants are competitively awarded. To date, Michigan has received 547 GLRI project grants – far more than any other state. In its budget submission to Congress in February, the Obama Administration requested $275 million in 2015 for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to continue the restoration work – a nine percent reduction from the current funding level. “We’re making real progress on restoring the Great Lakes, but there is still a lot more work to do,” said Rep. Levin. “Now is not the time to cut funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.” Great Lakes advocacy groups helped to highlight the need for sustained funding for the GLRI in recent weeks and urged Members’ offices to join the letter, which was signed by 37 Democrats and 9 Republicans. Michigan House members signing the letter included Sander Levin, John Dingell, Dan Benishek, Gary Peters, John Conyers, and Dan Kildee. Continued bipartisan support for the GLRI reflects a broad recognition that the Great Lakes are both a natural treasure and a vital economic asset the Great Lakes states. The Great Lakes are the source of drinking water for 40 million people, and hold 95 percent of our nation’s supply of fresh water. Jobs, recreation and tourism all depend upon a healthy and flourishing Great Lakes ecosystem. A PDF copy of the letter is available here. Text is below: March 28, 2014 Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member Moran: As Members of the House who believe that a healthy economy in our region is intrinsically linked to the health of the Great Lakes, we respectfully request that you provide $300 million in funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2015 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The Great Lakes are the world’s largest system of fresh surface water, providing drinking water for nearly 40 million people. The Lakes are also an economic driver, supporting 1.5 million jobs and generating $62 billion in wages annually. The Great Lakes fishery alone is valued at $7 billion a year. The Lakes also support commerce, agriculture, transportation, and tourism. For all these reasons, we believe Great Lakes restoration must remain a priority. More than a century of environmental damage has taken a significant toll on the Great Lakes, which have struggled to overcome toxic substances contamination, habitat loss, invasive species, and beach closings. In the short time that the GLRI has been in place, it has made significant progress in addressing the longstanding environmental challenges confronting the Lakes, particularly in the areas of combating invasive species like the Asian carp, protecting and restoring thousands of acres of habitat, and cleaning up toxics and Areas of Concern. More work needs to be done. We urge you to continue this vital investment in the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. ###
04.07.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the Senate’s vote to extend federal emergency unemployment insurance: “More than two million hard-working Americans who have had their unemployment benefits cut off finally received a glimmer of hope that their government doesn’t abandon them during their time of need. The Senate-passed bipartisan extension of emergency unemployment insurance will help restore a vital lifeline to these Americans while they continue their desperate search for work. House Republicans must not turn their back on this bipartisan action. I urge my Republican colleagues in the House to heed the stories of unemployed Americans and allow a vote immediately.” ###
04.07.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) went to the Floor of the House this afternoon to highlight that unemployed workers have been waiting 100 days for Congress to act to re-start the federal emergency unemployment insurance (UI) program. A transcript of his remarks follows: “Today marks the 100th day that unemployed Americans have been cut off the federal unemployment insurance program. “Let me give voice to how they have spent the last 100 days. “A woman from Pennsylvania wrote: It’s scary Mr. Levin – not knowing what will happen from day to day. My landlord has tried to be as patient as he could and now he had no choice but to serve me an eviction notice. It’s scary to think that my America is this cruel. “Carol from New York: I have been in the medical field for over 25 years, and unable to find work. I can’t pay my rent, electric bill, phone bill, no money for food, as for car, etc. I can’t even print out my resume for a job because I can’t afford to buy ink for my printer. This is the first time in my life I had to go to a food pantry. I was ashamed. Never in a million years would I imagine this is where I would be. I am not looking for a handout, I just need a little help to get back on my feet until I find a job. “Tonight the Senate will pass a bi-partisan UI extension. This House must not ignore these stories. We must act.” Summaries of Some of the Additional Email Stories received by Rep. Levin: Beth from Troy, MI: Since December 2013 I have been flailing about trying not to become homeless. I thought I had made good choices in my life in gaining a bachelors in social work and a masters in Health Education. I have been on countless interviews and have had to borrow money to get to them as well as find a way to continue to have a roof over my head. Teresa from Colorado: I am one of millions who have become homeless and now that there’s no UI I have lost hope in our system and our government. Cynthia from Georgia: I am 61 years old. I have worked since I was 16 with no lapse in employment. In August of 2013 my position was eliminated, restructure of the corporate company. I spend hours every day looking for employment of any kind. In 6 months I have received 2 calls which led to 2 interviews but no offer of employment. I am begging that you please extend the unemployment and give us a chance to survive while we continue our search for employment. To be my age and be faced with no chance of surviving, hardly feels like the "American Way" that I have known and loved. Do what is for the good of the people. Patti from Kansas: Here is my continuing story, I have not adequate employment, it seems at 56 years old the younger generations are more in demand. I am working 12 hours a week in the local diner at $3.25 an hour, well you can do the math. Low Energy Assistance program was able to help detour our utility bill until this month and even cutting out most of the heat our electric bill is instead of $650, it dropped to $436.00. I have traded in all our gold "for scrap prices" to make ends meet as far as the gas need in getting my husband to dialysis (which is a 94 mile round trip 3-4 times per week). Since becoming unemployed I had not used my credit cards but had made my payments. I am now 3 months in default and now my credit is ruined, which in turn shows up on my background checks for employment. I am lost, and if this is passed on Monday will be a definite lifeline for me. ###
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on the House floor in support of extending emergency unemployment benefits, which would immediately benefit more than 2.8 million Americans: “Mr. Speaker, two months ago a number of us invited unemployed workers to be our guests at the President’s State of the Union Address. We wanted to give a voice to the over 2 million Americans who have now had their unemployment benefits cut off. “When these jobseekers told their stories, one by one, I thought to myself – this is America. These are folks who come from every walk of life, who have worked hard, and who have played by the rules in pursuit of the American dream. “Now they have lost their jobs through no fault of their own, and they are desperately seeking new employment. You can understand their complete bewilderment when uniformed people call them lazy. And you can feel their utter disbelief that their government has abandoned them. “My guest for the State of the Union Address was Josie Maisano from St. Clair Shores, Michigan. Josie proudly told us she had worked since she was a teenager. But now at age 60 she couldn’t find a job. Her unemployment benefits were helping to keep her head above water as she searched for work. But when her benefits were cut off, she fell behind on her mortgage payments, struggled to keep the power on, and worries every day about becoming homeless. “Josie and over 2 million Americans just like her are desperately waiting to see if Congress will finally act to help those seeking jobs. The good news is the Senate is expected to take that critical step on Monday by passing bipartisan legislation to retroactively extend the federal unemployment insurance program through May. “The question is whether this House also will act, or will it leave town, and leave America’s jobseekers in the lurch. If every Member of this chamber will simply take a few minutes to talk with unemployed workers in their district, people like Josie, I have no doubt we will do the right thing and act. But up to this point, action has been scant, while excuses have been plentiful. “We have heard that an extension of unemployment benefits must be paid for, even though these emergency benefits have traditionally not been offset. The Senate unemployment extension is fully paid for with bipartisan offsets. End of excuse. “We have heard that any legislation extending unemployment benefits must also create jobs. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that continuing emergency unemployment benefits would create 200,000 jobs by raising consumer demand. End of excuse. “We have heard that extended unemployment benefits aren’t needed anymore because the economy has recovered. The economy certainly has improved from the depths of the Great Recession, but we continue to have near record rates of long-term unemployment, and we have never cut off these benefits in the past with anything close to this level of long-term unemployment. End of excuse. “We have heard that it’s too late to help the unemployed because the federal UI program has been expired for too long. The Secretary of Labor, Governors, and state UI directors have all said they stand ready, willing and able to restore these critical benefits, as has been done after prior lapses in benefits. End of excuse. “If we can get past the excuses, maybe we can focus on the facts. Anyone receiving an unemployment benefit must look for work, and they have ample reason to do so given that the average unemployment benefit is only $300 a week. Even at that modest level, unemployment benefits have lifted 11 million Americans out of poverty since 2008, according to the Census Bureau. “The end of the federal emergency unemployment program in December has left only one out of every four jobseekers receiving unemployment benefits – the lowest coverage rate in over 50 years. “The bipartisan Senate bill would restore this vital lifeline to nearly 2.8 million Americans, including Josie Maisano and 106,000 other job seekers in my home state of Michigan. “Someone recently asked me if this issue is personal to me. It is. When you hear the unemployed tell their stories, when you see the anguish in their faces, and when you know how hard they are struggling to find work, it is impossible to not take it personally. These are our friends, our neighbors, our fellow Americans. How can we give them the cold shoulder? “We must act.” ###
04.03.2014	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is our first public meeting since you announced you will not seek reelection this fall. As I stated when I heard the news: your devotion to public service – and your dedication to your District and to our entire State of Michigan – has been unswerving. You have brought a warm and dignified touch to your leadership, and I look forward to working with you on the unfinished business before our Committee in the coming months. The notice advising this hearing focused on Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), specifically the TPA legislation introduced in January by Chairman Camp and former Senator Baucus. I believe that legislation is deficient, but let me suggest that the focus today should not be on TPA but on the critical ongoing negotiations with Trans-Pacific Partnership countries. The TPP represents both major opportunities and major challenges. The opportunities stem from the dramatic economic growth in Asian Pacific nations. We are at a critical stage in those negotiations, but the outcome of a long list of fundamental issues remains uncertain. Some of these challenges reflect that this is the most complicated multi-party negotiation in 20 years in terms of the issues involved and the number of countries that individually present negotiating challenges. For example, the 12 trading partners include Japan, the third largest economy in the world with an export-dependent and notoriously closed market. The Korea agreement was hard – and remains hard with a number of disturbing implementation issues outstanding, and in some cases growing. Japan will be harder. Important markets in Japan are even more closed and its economy is bigger. For the United States, TPP is unique in that there are involved one-to-one negotiations with one of the largest industrial nations and competitors. The negotiations also include Vietnam, a communist country with a long-standing command economy and a very poor record on labor rights and the rule of law. The Colombia agreement was hard – and remains hard with a deeply troubling record of compliance with the Labor Action Plan. Vietnam will be harder. The fact that the communist government believes it, and not independent labor unions chosen by the workers themselves, represents workers in the workplace creates a new threshold issue. And Brunei, Malaysia, and Mexico also present challenges with respect to the implementation of the labor commitments. The list of major outstanding issues in TPP is too long to recite or describe here, but includes currency manipulation, environmental protections and labor standards, access to medicines, food safety rules, state-owned enterprises, tobacco controls, cross-border data flows and privacy protections, and investment issues. I hope we can discuss those issues today. The TPA introduced by Chairman Camp and Senator Baucus would not effectively guide our negotiators to get these outstanding issues right. Indeed, in a number of key respects Chairman Camp’s TPA doesn’t provide a lot of guidance. For example, on currency manipulation, it provides no real guidance, instead leaving it to the Administration to determine what is “appropriate.” There is also no guidance as to how to ensure that Vietnam implements its commitments. On the pricing of pharmaceuticals, the bill calls for the elimination of price controls and reference pricing, but neither the United States nor any other TPP country is supporting such a proposal. And the bill provides little guidance in determining what an acceptable outcome is with Japan on automotive or agricultural market access. Nor would that TPA bill provide much guidance as to how to improve consultations and transparency in the TPP negotiations. It largely does two things: it codifies the current procedures and requires the Administration – not Congress – to develop new guidelines for consultations and transparency in the future. Indeed, the bill would require the Administration to develop new consultation guidelines four months after Congress passes TPA. That would not help TPP. I believe that Congress needs to be fully involved right now. Congress needs to be a full partner in these negotiations. My message to our trading partners is clear: the U.S. Congress will support an agreement that expands trade if and when it does so in a way that benefits U.S. workers and business, effectively addresses critical new issues, strengthens our economy and protects our values. Getting the substance right is what is key now. I therefore hope we focus this hearing on the wide-ranging substantive issues embedded in TPP. We also need to discuss other important negotiations, including the Trans-Atlantic Agreement and the services agreement. And we need to act on other legislation -- including Trade Adjustment Assistance, the miscellaneous tariff bill, preference programs, and customs enforcement and facilitation. Ambassador Froman we deeply appreciate your hard work. You have enjoyed some important enforcement successes lately. We welcome your appearance today. ###
04.02.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) delivered the following statement on the House floor today in opposition to H.R. 2575, the Save American Workers Act of 2104 – the House GOP’s 52nd attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “My colleagues on the Republican side in the House are so blinded by their ideology that they will not or cannot see reality or hear other voices. So here's the reality: seven-plus million people have enrolled in private plans through the ACA marketplaces. The ACA is working. Millions have new coverage under Medicaid. Up to 129 million Americans with pre-existing health conditions, including 17 million children, no longer have to worry about being denied coverage or being charged higher premiums due to their health status. Three point one million young adults have gained health coverage because they can now stay on their parents' health plan up to age 26. That's the reality of the ACA. There's also the reality of what this legislation would do, and I want to emphasize this because I don't think it has been accurately stated to date. It would force one million people out of employer-based health insurance, according to CBO. It would increase the number of uninsured by about half a million, also according to CBO. And so they are bringing this up at the same time that seven million people have enrolled in private plans through the marketplace, and when millions now have coverage under Medicaid. So they essentially want to reverse the progress we’ve made in health coverage. Also -- and they don't face up to this -- this bill would add $74 billion to the deficit, according to CBO, without an offset. And you're coming forth the day after we receive the latest information about ACA enrollees, and saying, knock people off of insurance, knock them off of employer-based insurance and add $74 billion to the deficit? If any of those figures are wrong, I'd like someone to stand up and say so. Also, there's been much discussion about the impact of the ACA in terms of part-time employment, and I want to read what the CBO said definitively in February. In CBO's judgment, “there's no compelling evidence that part-time employment has increased as a result of the ACA.” We heard in testimony that a community college said they had reduced the hours of teachers in order to avoid paying health insurance. That's what somebody in the education field came forth and said is their policy. I suggest, instead of forgoing their responsibility as employers, they ought to go into the marketplace and see what they can do to bring more coverage for the people who are working hard. What you're doing here today is saying to many, many people who are working hard and who need insurance: this bill will knock you off of your employer-based insurance and increase the number of uninsured by half a million, while increasing the deficit by $74 billion. Ideology is indeed blind when this kind of a proposition is put forth.” ###
03.31.2014	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Democrats today released a new state-by-state analysis that estimates that the U.S. economy has lost $4.7 billion in the first three months of the year due to the Dec. 28 expiration of federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation. More than 2.2 million Americans have now been cut off extended unemployment insurance because Republicans continue to block an extension of the program. The state-by-state projections for the three-month period are based on the total federal unemployment insurance that Americans received in each state during the last three months of 2013. Nationwide, nearly 72,000 people are losing unemployment insurance, on average, every week – adding to the 2.2 million Americans who have already lost their benefits. The Senate on Thursday voted 65-34 to move forward on a bipartisan agreement to extend emergency unemployment insurance through May. Another procedural vote on the agreement is expected later today. “Unemployment insurance has played a vital role in our economic recovery and the program’s expiration has drained billions of dollars from state economies during the last three months,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “Hundreds of thousands of jobs are at stake, as are the livelihoods of millions of Americans laid off through no fault of their own. The Senate is taking another bipartisan step on the long-road to extending this critical lifeline today and the House needs to also act to stand with job-seeking Americans.” Estimated Lost Unemployment Benefits in the First Three Months of 2014 Due to the Shutdown of the Federal UI Program Projections Based on EUC spending in last quarter of 2013 State Projected Lost UI in Jan-March 2014 (total) AK $20,039,211 AL $28,557,465 AR $29,988,269 AZ $37,714,686 CA $833,962,685 CO $75,813,813 CT $106,893,214 DC $18,892,695 DE $10,107,283 FL $192,522,606 GA $110,330,484 HI $11,074,540 IA $16,627,467 ID $8,535,176 IL $296,763,435 IN $59,532,967 KS $17,111,509 KY $66,090,769 LA $15,782,115 MA $253,584,916 MD $98,358,539 ME $11,200,990 MI $139,441,834 MN $5,556,506 MO $72,598,463 MS $26,689,495 MT $5,392,439 NC * ND $2,982,882 NE $6,374,656 NH $4,469,711 NJ $365,139,763 NM $20,780,040 NV $70,020,706 NY $429,605,084 OH $147,950,008 OK $15,098,605 OR $78,948,135 PA $317,877,824 PR $43,529,465 RI $21,694,857 SC $36,310,567 SD $534,052 TN $49,830,392 TX $259,154,093 UT $10,533,273 VA $33,130,689 VI $5,704,895 VT $2,379,886 WA $108,835,855 WI $75,741,838 WV $20,177,455 WY $2,666,641 TOTAL $4,698,892,545 SOURCE: U.S. Department of Labor, "EUC Program Activity.” NOTES: "*" indicates NC had terminated its EUC program prior to the end of 2013. ###
03.31.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) announced that he would not seek reelection: Chairman Camp’s decision to not seek reelection to Congress is a regrettable one for this institution. His devotion to public service has been unswerving, as has been his dedication to his District and the entire State of Michigan. He has brought a warm and dignified touch to his leadership. I look forward to working with him on the unfinished business before our Committee as well as wishing the best to him and his family in the days after he leaves Congress.” ###
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON – The Department of Labor estimates that the bipartisan Senate agreement to extend the emergency unemployment insurance program would benefit nearly 2.8 million people. The estimates highlight how many people in each state would receive financial assistance under the agreement, which the Senate moved forward today with a bipartisan 65-34 vote and is expected to move to final passage next week. The agreement was announced earlier this month by five Senate Republicans and five Senate Democrats. The estimates include anyone eligible for retroactive or prospective benefits because of the extension of the EUC program under the legislation. It does not count the millions of family members, including children of job-seekers, who will indirectly benefit through an extension. “There is no doubting the enormity of the impact that an extension of this program will have on so many Americans looking for work,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “I’m glad to see the Senate take a strong bipartisan first step toward renewing this vital lifeline for 2.8 million job-seekers and their families.” Number of Job Seekers Benefiting Under Bipartisan Senate UI Bill Number of Claimants Potentially Eligible for EUC During the First 5 Months of CY 2014 Including Claimants Cut off of EUC Due to the 12/28/2013 Expiration of the Program State Alaska 15,100 Alabama 27,100 Arkansas 21,100 Arizona 32,100 California 514,300 Colorado 41,400 Connecticut 48,100 District of Columbia 9,100 Delaware 6,400 Florida 132,300 Georgia 98,500 Hawaii 7,000 Iowa 19,100 Idaho 9,100 Illinois 153,400 Indiana 39,200 Kansas 17,100 Kentucky 31,200 Louisiana 16,000 Massachusetts 80,200 Maryland 47,200 Maine 9,000 Michigan 106,200 Minnesota 36,100 Missouri 49,300 Mississippi 22,100 Montana 8,200 North Carolina -- North Dakota 5,500 Nebraska 8,000 New Hampshire 3,800 New Jersey 144,300 New Mexico 14,100 Nevada 34,100 New York 228,700 Ohio 75,200 Oklahoma 16,100 Oregon 43,200 Pennsylvania 158,400 Puerto Rico 41,100 Rhode Island 12,000 South Carolina 29,100 South Dakota 900 Tennessee 41,100 Texas 164,400 Utah 11,100 Virginia 33,300 Virgin Islands 2,300 Vermont 2,500 Washington 57,500 Wisconsin 55,100 West Virginia 14,100 Wyoming 3,500 National Total 2,795,300 - Estimates are based on the FY 2014 President's Budget economic Assumptions. - Includes the estimated number of claimants cut off EUC following the week ending 12/28/2014. - Includes actual regular UI exhaustee data available as of 3/19/2014. - EUC Claimant estimates represent the maximum potential number of the claimants that would have at some point been potentially eligible for at least 1 week of EUC during the first three weeks of CY 2014. Source: Department of Labor ###
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON – St. Clair Shores has received a $250,000 grant through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), the Environmental Protection Agency announced today. The city of Detroit also received a $1 million grant through the GLRI today. The St. Clair Shores grant will enable the City to install green infrastructure (3,000 square feet of rain garden and 21,000 square feet of pervious pavement) at a parking lot at the City's Kyte Monroe Park. The green infrastructure will capture and treat storm water runoff from the parking lot – runoff which is currently untreated and discharged via storm sewer directly to Lake St. Clair. This project is estimated to prevent approximately 95,000 gallons of polluted storm water from entering Lake St. Clair during a significant rain event. “Lake St. Clair is a vital part of the Great Lakes,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Today’s grant announcement builds on the progress that has been made to restore Lake St. Clair and its watershed by providing needed resources to address polluted stormwater runoff.” The GLRI casts a broad net to collect the best ideas from local units of government, environmental organization, citizens groups, and universities. The program provides federal resources to fund local solutions that respond to local restoration priorities. The GLRI grants are competitively awarded. With regard to the St. Clair Shores award, runoff and non-point pollution are problems highlighted in the Lake St. Clair Management Plan. Traditional roads and parking lots are impervious surfaces that cause rainwater and snowmelt to skim across the land, carrying E.coli waste, automotive oil, road salt, fertilizers, and litter into the Lake. For many years, water policy has, understandably, focused on cleaning up point sources of pollution like sewers, but we also need to do much more to address non-point pollution. This GLRI grant will do just that. The Great Lakes are the world’s largest system of fresh surface water, providing drinking water for nearly 40 million people. The Lakes are also an economic driver, supporting 1.5 million jobs and generating $62 billion in wages annually. The Great Lakes fishery alone is valued at $7 billion a year. The Lakes also support commerce, agriculture, transportation, and tourism. For all these reasons, we believe Great Lakes restoration must remain a priority. More than a century of environmental damage has taken a significant toll on the Great Lakes, which have struggled to overcome toxic substances contamination, habitat loss, invasive species, and beach closings. In the short time that the GLRI has been in place, it has made significant progress in addressing the longstanding environmental challenges confronting the Lakes, particularly in the areas of combating invasive species like the Asian carp, protecting and restoring thousands of acres of habitat, and cleaning up toxics and Areas of Concern. More work needs to be done. ###
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON – Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow with Reps. John Dingell, Sander Levin, Gary Peters and Dan Kildee sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder, requesting that, for the purpose of federal law and benefits, he recognize the more than 300 same-sex marriages that took place across Michigan last weekend. Yesterday the Governor indicated that the historic marriages we witnessed this past weekend were legal but refused to recognize them. That makes no sense and we are calling on Attorney General Holder to immediately recognize these marriages for all federal purposes,” said Rep. Sander Levin. A PDF copy of the letter is here. The text of the letter follows: Dear Attorney General Holder: We are writing to request that you formally recognize as lawful the more than 300 same-sex marriages recently performed in the State of Michigan for the purposes of federal law and eligibility for federal benefits. On March 21, U.S. District Court Judge Bernard Friedman struck down Michigan’s constitutional ban on same-sex marriage and its implementing statutes as a violation of the Equal Protection Clause. Judge Friedman also ordered that the State of Michigan be enjoined from enforcing the ban as well as declined to stay his order. One day later, in joyous celebrations across the state, more than 300 same-sex couples were lawfully married. Since that time, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, at the request of Michigan’s Governor and Attorney General, has issued an indefinite stay, blocking additional same-sex couples from exercising a long-denied right and casting unnecessary legal uncertainty over those couples who were recently married. We appreciate your continued leadership role in the Executive Branch’s implementation of the Supreme Court’s landmark ruling in United States v. Windsor. The Court’s decision was a historic step toward equal protection for all American families, regardless of sexual orientation. By clarifying the federal status of these now married same-sex couples in Michigan—as you did in January for similarly situated same-sex couples in Utah—you can take another step toward full equality. Sincerely, Sen. Debbie Stabenow Sen. Carl Levin Rep. John Dingell Rep. Sander Levin Rep. Gary Peters Rep. Dan Kildee ###
03.26.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today after the World Trade Organization ruling on China’s export policies for rare-earth elements: Through the aggressive efforts of the Obama Administration, the WTO has struck down China’s efforts to block our companies from having access to key inputs. Our high-tech industries, from smartphones to medical equipment to wind turbines, depend on access to these rare earths and other chemicals. Holding China accountable, and enforcing the rules of international trade are vital to U.S. businesses and workers and key to trade expansion efforts. China must get the message that our government, backed by our workers, won’t stop pressing until China abandons its penchant for promoting its domestic industries at the expense of those of its trading partners.” ###
03.26.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the upcoming end to open enrollment in the Affordable Care Act’s marketplaces: While Republicans are busy throwing every obstacle they can in front of Americans enrolling in more affordable and comprehensive health insurance, the Administration is right to help as many people and families as possible to get covered. The Affordable Care Act is providing access to health insurance coverage that until now has been out of reach for far too many Americans and we should be making every effort to ensure that the door is not shut for people who have started to apply by March 31.” ###
03.19.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on Speaker Boehner’s statement on Implementing an Extension of the Federal Emergency Unemployment Insurance Program as contained in the bi-partisan proposal to extend UI for five months. “Over 2 million unemployed workers have been waiting for Congress to act to restore the federal emergency unemployment insurance program - a critical lifeline while they look for work – since December 28th. “With the bi-partisan breakthrough in the Senate on a 5 month fully-paid for extension now is not the time to set out hurdles to helping America’s jobseekers. We have in the past restored these benefits after the program was suspended, and can do so again. As in the past, the Department of Labor will work with the States to ensure they can fully implement this voluntary program. And surely Republicans aren’t going to suggest that their insistence on prospectively banning millionaires from getting these benefits is now a reason to block a UI extension. “Speaker Boehner has said he is willing to consider an extension of unemployment benefits that is fully paid for – the Senate bill is fully paid for. I hope he holds true to that standard and I am confident that given a vote a bi-partisan extension of the UI program will pass the House. “I just met with a group of unemployed workers in Michigan and their personal stories cut through all of the past inaction in Washington – they have worked all of their lives, they are looking for work, and they need this basic assistance to stay afloat and get back on their feet. We cannot let them down.�? ###
03.14.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 4015, which would delay the individual mandate for five years: “House Republicans today are tossing aside common ground for barren ground: another Affordable Care Act repeal vote. “They are throwing out a historic bipartisan breakthrough to permanently end and replace the broken Medicare physician payment formula to once again turn to partisan politics. “They are making a statement here today, not law, and we all know it. “The breakthrough achieved earlier this year by Democrats and Republicans on Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce and Senate Finance would permanently replace the deeply flawed SGR formula with a system designed to build on delivery system reforms – reforms that move Medicare physician payments toward a more accountable, value-driven system. “The underlying policy agreement is broadly supported by both the provider community and beneficiaries. “But today’s exercise is opposed by groups representing seniors, doctors, health plans and others because it guts the Affordable Care Act through a five-year delay to the individual mandate. “What’s the result? “According the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation, the Republican bill would: “Increase the number of uninsured Americans by 13 million, including: One million people losing job-based coverage Seven million people losing coverage they would have in the individual market And five million individuals with the lowest incomes losing Medicaid coverage. “What’s more, the bill would raise individual market health insurance premiums by 10 to 20 percent for those who remain insured. “Last week we saw the 50th vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act. This week brings the total to 51. “So much for good faith and goodwill. Instead of working to find common ground to finish the job on a bipartisan solution vital to fixing a key problem in our health care system, House Republicans are taking a cynical step in a familiar direction – one that only points toward the November election. I urge my colleagues to vote no. ###
03.13.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the bipartisan Senate agreement to extend unemployment insurance: The bipartisan Senate legislation on unemployment insurance is a major step forward for millions of job-seeking Americans. I urge Republicans in the House to follow this bipartisan path to assist the unemployed who have been without federal assistance since Dec. 28th. The need is urgent, as is our responsibility to act.” ###
03.12.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement at a press conference before signing a discharge petition to force House Republican leadership to allow a vote on a measure Rep. Levin introduced that would extend emergency unemployment insurance. The Dec. 28 expiration of the federal program has now cut off unemployment insurance to more than two million people – a state-by-state breakdown is here – harming more than one million children and affecting 200,000 veterans. Nearly five million people will lose access to unemployment insurance through the end of the year should Republicans continue to block an extension. The discharge petition, filed by Rep. Brad Schneider of Illinois, would force a vote on the House floor to extend unemployment insurance if 218 members of Congress sign on. “The failure to act on unemployment insurance has cost the national economy in January and February $3 billion. But I want to talk about the two million-plus people out in the cold because of the failure to act. This is a Craigslist ad from Denver, Colorado: ‘Family heirloom. Professionally appraised at $895. Family quilt that needs to be sold. Laid off, unemployment not extended. Resorting to selling personal items.’ This one from Vermont: ‘I need to sell my gorgeous wedding set. Paid $4,500. Need to sell for $2,000 to pay bills. Both engagement ring and wedding band have 1 3/8 carats each … I hate to get rid of it, but without the unemployment extension, everything must go.’ Everything must go. People work for their unemployment insurance. We need to act.” ###
03.12.2014	Madam Secretary, welcome. We really do welcome you here. It is a chance to have some dialogue. I hope that's what will occur. Instead of dialogue what we've really had from the Republicans is diatribe. And we're going to see that further this week when there's an effort to take up our reform of SGR that's on a bipartisan basis, and fund it with essentially the destruction of the Affordable Care Act. The New York Times talks about today where the enrollment is. And it's interesting Republicans often used to talk about Medicare Part D and how it proceeded. The Energy and Commerce Committee is going to come out with a report this morning, and it's going to say that that ACA enrollment as a percentage of projected enrollment is already better than Part D’s voluntary enrollment, so I hope you'll be able to set the record straight. It's short of the original goal, and I hope you'll address that, where we are, what the figures really mean, and also you may want to comment on the fact that three million young adults have already gained access to health insurance through their parents' policies, which would not have happened if it weren't for the ACA. I just want to give one example of what this has meant for people in this country. A person from Brighton, Michigan, in her 30s, has lupus, a pre-existing condition. She hasn't had insurance in six years because it was simply too expensive. She lived in constant fear of getting sick or injured and she said, and I quote: “There are a lot of things I haven’t done – I used to like to ski and mountain bike, but I knew that if I broke a wrist it would cost me $10,000. It‘s that constant worry of ‘what happens if…’�? The real contrast is an ad that has been running in Michigan about a cancer patient and I won't go into the details, but essentially she said her policy was unaffordable through the marketplace. The ad's been funded by over a million dollars from Americans for Prosperity. It turns out, according to the Detroit News and others, that that ad, and that statement, together are just false. It turns out that this person will save more than $1,000 a year. So Madam Secretary, I hope you'll use your time to acknowledge the problems with the website at the beginning. And put in perspective what's happened since then and where we're going, and, indeed, to have a dialogue. What has been most short in the discussion of ACA has been dialogue. ###
03.10.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement after the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services announced that it will hold off on Medicare Part D proposals relating to the protected classes definition on three drug classes, standards for preferred pharmacy networks, the number of Part D plans sponsors may offer, and clarifications to the non-interference provision: The Administration’s decision not to finalize the most controversial proposals in the Part D proposed regulation shows they have listened to stakeholder comments. This further highlights that the House Republican bill scheduled for a vote Tuesday that would prohibit the agency from implementing any part of the regulation would undermine clearly helpful beneficiary and anti-fraud protections and would be a gross overreach, undermining the regulatory process. Republicans should withdraw this bill.” ###
03.06.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA), Rep. Sandy Levin (D-MI), Rep. Derek Kilmer (D-WA), and Rep. Charles Rangel (D-MI) introduced the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Act of 2014 to provide critical job training and worker assistance for Americans who have lost their jobs due to increased competition in the global marketplace. The U.S. manufacturing, service, farming, and fishing sectors have been hit hard with declines in employment, and American workers need support and training to secure new employment. At the beginning of this year, TAA expired for thousands of service industry workers affected by trade, as well as for workers losing their jobs due to imports from countries including China. If Congress doesn’t reauthorize TAA by the end of the year, the entire program will expire. "Our nation's economy and success depend on our workers,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “As we continue to recover from the economic crisis and adapt to a rapidly changing economy, it is critical that we update and improve the TAA program to help workers transition. In the face of greater global competition, we need to provide training, income support, and healthcare to help displaced workers adjust and enhance their skills for new jobs and careers." The Trade Adjustment Assistance Act would ensure that TAA eligibility is available to workers and firms in the services and manufacturing sectors, workers whose firms shift production to (or are adversely affected by imports from) FTA and non-FTA countries, U.S. suppliers of component parts, public sector workers, and farmers and fishermen. The bill also invests in American workers by restoring comprehensive levels of benefits in areas such as job training, case management, income support, and job search and relocation allowances that are critical to workers adversely affected by increased global competition. Mr. Levin added, “It is urgent that we reinstate the full TAA program for dislocated workers who are building new careers for themselves. As we seek to fully benefit from globalization we must maintain structures that allow us to address its challenges for the workers and firms who are prepared to compete when they are given the tools to do so.” Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles Rangel agreed. He noted that “we need to continue to give dislocated workers the option of improving their skills, or learning new ones, as part of our commitment to making sure the American worker benefits from globalization.” Congress created the TAA program in 1962 in response to the loss of jobs among hard-working Americans as a result of increasing global competition as well as to promote American competitiveness. TAA benefits have several components: training assistance, income support while in training, and job search and relocation assistance. The program assists workers dislocated by the elimination of tariffs and other barriers to trade. Additional programs assist farmers, fishermen, and firms with the development and implementation of business plans to enable them to regain a competitive foothold. Rep. Derek Kilmer added, “As someone with over a decade of experience in economic development, I know that job training is a key catalyst for job growth. Our workers and employers have to compete with those of countries around the world. That’s why we need to ensure access to training that can protect and produce quality jobs. TAA helps to do just that, which is why I’m going to do everything I can to build support for this bill in the House.” Link to Bill Text Here Link to One Pager Here ###
03.05.2014	The number of people who have lost their unemployment benefits as a result of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program’s expiration has surpassed two million this week, according to a new analysis from Ways and Means Committee Democrats. The estimate includes the number of people in each state who have lost coverage since the program’s Dec. 28 expiration. Every week, 72,000 people, on average, are losing their unemployment benefits nationwide without an extension of the program. House Republicans have blocked multiple efforts by Democrats to bring up legislation to extend the program on the House floor. Last month a measure to extend the program came one vote short of the 60 votes necessary to move forward legislation in the Senate. “A financial crisis is confronting more and more families every day that Republicans fail to support an extension of this vital program,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “One Republican vote in the Senate is all that stands in the way of two million people and their families coming one critical step closer to seeing their financial lifeline restored as they look for work.” State Estimated Number of People Losing UI Thru March 8 AK 8,608 AL 19,267 AR 15,838 AZ 25,754 CA 339,101 CO 31,468 CT 35,035 DC 7,215 DE 5,446 FL 109,654 GA 76,362 HI 4,131 IA 11,300 ID 6,831 IL 116,136 IN 28,969 KS 10,746 KY 24,769 LA 12,601 MA 79,777 MD 33,862 ME 6,723 MI 76,580 MN 22,269 MO 34,944 MS 18,092 MT 4,991 NC* NA ND 2,377 NE 4,392 NH 2,504 NJ 124,569 NM 9,731 NV 26,023 NY 178,177 OH 57,869 OK 10,638 OR 31,221 PA 109,061 PR 39,777 RI 8,323 SC 22,785 SD 508 TN 31,423 TX 105,409 UT 6,231 VA 21,969 VI 1,762 VT 1,485 WA 38,876 WI 39,777 WV 10,731 WY 2,023 Total: 2,054,110 *North Carolina was ineligible for the federal unemployment insurance ###
02.26.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) unveiled his tax reform proposal: Chairman Camp’s tax reform proposal opens up a discussion that Democrats have wanted to engage in on a bipartisan basis. As Democrats, we believe it is vital that tax reform encourage economic growth, support working families, broaden the middle class, and address income inequality. It must produce a fairer and more adequate tax code for all Americans, ensuring that wealthy individuals and corporations pay their fair share while preserving our long-term economic security in a fiscally responsible way that promotes jobs in the United States. It is through the lens of those priorities that we will review Chairman Camp’s proposal in detail as the Committee undertakes a thorough examination of his proposal.” ###
02.25.2014	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) attended a ceremony today at the White House where President Obama announced Michigan winning the Advanced Lightweight Metals Innovation public/private partnership. This new partnership will create a lightweight metal hub here in Michigan where members of the world’s leading aluminum, titanium, and high strength steel manufacturers and users will be joined by universities, laboratories and organizational partners to work together to develop new technologies for manufacturing lightweight metals. The long-term goal of the of this hub will be to expand the market for and create new consumers of products and systems that utilize new lightweight, high‑performing metals and alloys by removing technological barriers to their manufacture. “This is a tremendous opportunity for Michigan and the region,�? said U.S. Rep. Levin. “It’s not just the thousands of jobs the Lightweight Metals hub is expected to create in our region over the next 5 years. This is a chance for America to regain the lead in critical areas of advanced manufacturing. Michigan is an obvious choice to host the Lightweight Metals hub. It builds on our state’s core manufacturing strengths and Michigan’s skilled workforce.�? ###
02.24.2014	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-MI) said that he would not seek reelection: John Dingell has been a pillar of unique strength for Michigan and the entire nation in the U.S. House of Representatives. His exceptional combination of legislative prowess and a deep respect for those individuals whom he prided in representing in Congress stands as a model of public service. His legislative accomplishments will be well recorded in the history books as they have touched every aspect of modern life, yet it is my hope that his wise counsel and deep feelings about the institution he cares so deeply about will be heard by all as well.” ###
02.21.2014	The Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, co-chaired by U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), Jim Gerlach (R-PA) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), today released the following statement regarding the agreement between Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych and opposition leaders to resolve the crisis in Ukraine: “We welcome today’s agreement with cautious optimism. In light of the horrific violence of the last two days, the most immediate need is the prevention of further bloodshed and the complete cessation of government aggression against peaceful demonstrators. It is our sincere hope that this settlement will achieve those goals, as well as begin a just process for holding accountable those responsible for violence. “The way in which this agreement is implemented is critical. Consequently, we call on the Government of Ukraine to fulfill its obligations under the agreement in good faith and without delay. The passage of legislation to restore Ukraine’s Constitution to its 2004 version represents a positive development, and President Yanukovych should sign it immediately. This must also be accompanied by the creation of a coalition government that includes opposition parties and possess a real and effective check on presidential powers. “Regarding the issue of early presidential elections, we are concerned that the agreement does not provide for them soon enough. Accordingly, we encourage the parties to the agreement to work toward holding the elections as soon as practicably possible. The voice of the Ukrainian people must be heard. Finally, in the run-up to presidential elections, electoral reforms must made in accordance with international standards to ensure a free and fair process. “The Congressional Ukrainian Caucus stands ready to assist with the implementation of the agreement and the eventual resolution of the political and economic crisis in Ukraine. We are also ready, should violence continue, to reaffirm our call for targeted sanctions on those found responsible for such deplorable acts.” ###
02.19.2014	The Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, co-chaired by U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI), Jim Gerlach (R-PA) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), today released the following statement regarding the recent horrific violence in Ukraine, in which it has been reported that over 26 individuals have been killed and hundreds more have been seriously injured: “The Congressional Ukrainian Caucus condemns in the strongest terms the recent violence and calls on all sides to take immediate steps to deescalate the situation—the most critical of which is the Government of Ukraine cancelling any planned action, including those under the pretext of ‘anti-terrorism’ operations, to clear the Maidan through the use of violence or military force. “The recent violence across Ukraine is the latest and most brutal example of illegitimate tactics utilized by President Yanukovych’s administration to quell freedoms of speech and assembly in Ukraine. It requires a swift and strong response from the United States, the European Union and the wider international community. “Specifically, the Caucus calls on the Obama Administration to immediately impose targeted travel and financial sanctions on any Ukrainian government official, including President Yanukovych, who are credibly found to be responsible for violence and human rights violations. If warranted, sanctions should also target the responsible government officials’ financial backers, whose support has facilitated violence against peaceful demonstrators. In addition, the Caucus calls on the Obama Administration to ensure that all U.S. financial assistance to Ukraine is strictly limited to recipients that support democratization, the development of independent civil society and media and respect the fundamental human rights and freedoms of the Ukrainian people. “Ukraine stands at the brink, but there is still time to reverse the current course and once again put the country on a path to a democratic and prosperous future. A democratic and truly independent Ukraine will not be borne from authoritarian violence and the resulting ashes. To the contrary, a Ukraine worthy of its citizens’ noble aspirations will be the product of a representative political dialogue, constitutional and electoral reform and a categorical rejection of the tactics of government repression. The Congressional Ukrainian Caucus stands ready to work with its colleagues in the Verkhovna Rada toward these goals.” ###
02.18.2014	Ways and Means Committee Democrats today released a new state-by-state analysis that projects the U.S. economy will lose more than $3 billion in January and February alone due to the Dec. 28 expiration of federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation. More than 1.8 million Americans have now been cut off extended unemployment insurance because Republicans continue to block an extension of the program. The House will not reconvene until February 25. The state-by-state projections for the two-month period are based on the total federal unemployment insurance that Americans received in each state during the last two months of 2013. Nationwide, nearly 72,000 people are losing unemployment insurance, on average, every week – adding to the 1.8 million Americans who have already lost their benefits. House Republicans have blocked multiple efforts by Democrats to bring up legislation to extend the federal unemployment benefits on the House floor. Senate Republicans this month also voted twice to block legislation to extend these benefits, including a bill that was completely paid for. November and December Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) data are not available for Louisiana, Massachusetts, Montana, and Nevada and therefore the most recent two months of available data were used for the calculation in those states. “The loss of long-term unemployment benefits is weighing down our economy at a critical point in the economic recovery, threatening to inflict long-term damage,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “Long-term unemployment remains an enormous challenge for millions of Americans and our overall economy, which is exactly why Republicans should join with Democrats to renew this important program.” State Projected Lost UI in Jan/Feb 2014 (total) AK $13,865,578 AL $19,224,199 AR $21,053,352 AZ $24,431,771 CA $567,341,046 CO $53,310,738 CT $76,641,907 DC $10,362,561 DE $6,905,881 FL $128,961,678 GA $70,523,382 HI $7,465,925 IA $10,851,057 ID $5,522,265 IL $196,434,069 IN $42,058,563 KS $10,799,079 KY $44,763,726 LA $9,370,707* MA $101,118,536* MD $75,215,383 ME $7,845,425 MI $88,934,897 MN $3,875,463 MO $46,212,895 MS $17,655,933 MT $3,310,203* NC ** ND $2,419,347 NE $4,459,944 NH $2,898,943 NJ $243,385,666 NM $6,808,904 NV $54,252,807* NY $288,163,726 OH $100,876,967 OK $10,342,519 OR $54,231,118 PA $205,024,097 PR $29,272,507 RI $15,267,389 SC $23,612,481 SD $376,140 TN $32,957,284 TX $171,362,151 UT $7,455,193 VA $22,634,593 VI $4,218,164 VT $1,636,726 WA $78,178,787 WI $51,088,795 WV $14,052,918 WY $1,863,311 Total $3,090,896,696 SOURCE: U.S. Department of Labor, "EUC Program Activity” for 11/13 and 12/13. * November and December Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) data are not available for Louisiana, Massachusetts, Montana, and Nevada and therefore the most recent two months of available data were used for the calculation in those states. ** North Carolina had terminated its EUC program prior to the end of 2013. ###
02.11.2014	It has been nearly nine months since the Inspector General’s IRS audit report was published. And yet, Republicans are no closer today to finding any evidence to back up their baseless allegations of White House corruption than when they began making those claims immediately after the report came out, including during this committee’s first hearing on the matter May 17. Instead of this prestigious committee using its broad jurisdiction to address critical issues that confront us, it has been consumed by a tireless effort by Republicans to find political scandal, regardless of what the truth holds, as they look toward the November election. That focus does not live up to the long, honorable tradition of this vital committee. More than 500,000 pages of IRS documents have been turned over to congressional committees. Five dozen interviews of current and former IRS employees have taken place. Lawmakers at fifteen congressional hearings have questioned IRS officials. In all, more than 150 IRS employees have worked 70,000 hours – time taken away from taxpayer services – to accommodate the ongoing requests for information from congressional investigators. And yet, there’s been absolutely no evidence of any corruption unearthed. Not a single piece of evidence showing any political motivation. Nothing showing any involvement outside the IRS. Had the Treasury Inspector General not left out vital information -- producing a fundamentally flawed audit report – it may have dissuaded Republicans from immediately accusing the White House of keeping an “enemies list” and trying to turn the audit into a scandal that they are intent on keeping alive, no matter the facts. For one, the IG failed to disclose that progressive and other liberal groups were singled out alongside tea party organizations and were among the 298 organizations that he reviewed in his audit. What’s more, not until two months after the audit report was published did we learn that the IG had instructed his chief investigator to look into the possibility of political motivation by the IRS and that the investigator had concluded that it was confusion – not political motivation – that led IRS employees to single out organizations for further scrutiny. On May 3, 11 days before the audit report was published, the IG’s chief investigator summed up his findings in an email to the senior staff at TIGTA. He wrote: “There was no indication that pulling these selected applications was politically motivated. The email traffic indicated there were unclear processing directions and the group wanted to make sure they had guidance on processing the applications so they pulled them. This is a very important nuance.” Indeed it is – and it is precisely that lack of clarity that the IRS was responding to in proposing new regulations for 501(c)(4) organizations. New regulations are designed to bring certainty in determining whether an organization's primary activities are political. The regulations are among several steps the IG himself recommended in his audit report that the IRS undertake – each of which the IRS has acted upon, I should note. They are anything but final – and I and many of my colleagues on this Committee have our own questions about aspects of them. But the proposed regulations are an important start to bringing both clarity to what now are wholly confusing rules governing 501(c)(4) and much-needed disclosure by organizations spending heavily to influence elections. Applications for 501(c)(4) status nearly doubled between 2010 and 2012 – to 3,357. The designation allows organizations to keep their donors secret. Spending during the 2012 election by 501(c)(4)s soared to more than $250 million, from $92 million in 2010 and just $1 million in 2006, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Unfortunately, the proposed regulations are being used by Republicans in Congress to renew a tireless campaign to turn the issue into a scandal that would pay political dividends. Last week they pointed to a 2012 email as evidence that the IRS was considering making changes to the regulations two years ago, claiming that an employee’s use of the term “off plan” suggested the IRS was hoping to hide its work from the public. The irony is that in seeking to delay these regulations for a year under the guise of a “scandal,” what really remains hidden are donors to groups pouring millions of dollars into campaign advertising. The truth is that the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration has recommended consideration of guidance on how to measure the “primary activities” of 501(c)(4) social welfare organizations and the Treasury included that in its Priority Guidance Plan in August 2013. Without a shred of evidence to keep alive their allegation that the White House was targeting its political enemies, Republicans have now turned to the proposed regulations to renew their attack. This Committee has started the new year where it left off – showing painfully little interest in legislating – and instead keeping its politically based dual focus squarely on seeking to unearth scandal in the IRS where none exists and undermining the Affordable Care Act. ###
02.07.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-MD) today asked new IRS Commissioner John Koskinen to detail how much taxpayer money and resources the IRS has spent to accommodate the six Congressional investigations initiated after the May 14 TIGTA audit report. In the nearly nine months since the report was published, no evidence of political motivation has emerged. Meanwhile, the agency in January completed every recommendation included in the May 14 audit report. The request for an accounting of resources spent on the investigations was made in a letter to Commissioner Koskinen. A PDF copy of the letter is here. Text follows: February 7, 2014 The Honorable John Koskinen Commissioner Internal Revenue Service 1111 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20224 Dear Mr. Koskinen: Congratulations on your recent confirmation as Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. Your bi-partisan Senate confirmation marks a new beginning for the agency. We are glad that the IRS has implemented all of the recommendations proposed by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration’s May 14, 2013 audit report. We very much look forward to working with you and appreciate your commitment to cooperate with Congress. We are concerned, however, that Congressional Republicans are wasting taxpayer dollars and continuously using the IRS “investigations” for political purposes for the November election. We are writing today to request an accounting of taxpayer dollars and federal employee time spent to date on these investigations. This is occurring during a time when there is a need for adequate resources to better serve taxpayers during the filing season. In your letter to our Committees dated January 28, 2014, you cited a number of figures about the work that the IRS has performed at the direction of Congress related to the six investigations into the May 14, 2013 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration report on the processing of tax-exempt applications. Specifically, more than 150 people at the IRS, including Chief Counsel attorneys, litigation support staff and IRS personnel, have worked for more than 70,000 hours combined to produce over 500,000 pages of documents. The IRS has responded to more than 50 Congressional letters and hundreds of informal Congressional requests, facilitated more than 60 transcribed interviews by Congressional staff of current and former IRS employees, and IRS personnel have answered questions related to the subjects of these investigations at 14 Congressional hearings. A conservative accounting suggests the total of taxpayer dollars spent by the IRS to accommodate the investigation would be well into the millions of dollars. The IRS has been very detailed in providing us with statistics related to the investigations, and I hope that this additional information also can be obtained. Please feel free to have your staff contact either the Ways and Means Committee Democratic staff at 202-225-4021 or the Oversight and Government Reform Committee Democratic staff at 202-225-5051 if you have any questions. Sincerely, Sander Levin Elijah Cummings Ranking Member Ranking Member Ways and Means Oversight and Government Committee Reform Committee ###
02.06.2014	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) this week joined with his fellow Co-Chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, Representatives Jim Gerlach (R-PA) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Caucus Member, Representative Mike Quigley (D-IL), in issuing the following statement regarding their meeting with opposition Members of the Ukrainian Parliament, Oleh Medunytsya and Volodymyr Shulha: “Ukraine stands at a critical juncture in its current political and economic crisis; consequently, our meeting with our impressive Ukrainian colleagues could not have come at a better time. President Yanukovych and his allies face a stark choice—continue down the road of repression or respect the desire of millions of Ukrainians for democracy and fundamental human rights. “We deeply appreciate the opportunity to hear the unique, firsthand perspectives of Mr. Medunytsa and Mr. Shulha, both of whom laid out in stark terms the challenges they face. Despite the difficult road ahead, we are encouraged by their impassioned advocacy for a fully democratic Ukraine—a goal that we share. Accordingly, we assured Mr. Medunytsa and Mr. Shulha of our continued support for a Ukraine that is truly free and for U.S. and international actions toward that goal.” ###
02.06.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after Senate Republicans voted to block a fully-paid for extension of the emergency unemployment insurance program, leaving the measure one vote shy of the 60 required to receive an up-or-down vote for final passage: One Republican vote in the Senate is standing in the way of 1.7 million Americans receiving a critical lifeline while they look for work. By the smallest of margins, Senate Republicans are leaving unemployed Americans and the families who they support with the largest of problems. The latest bill in the Senate met the Republican demand that even a short-term extension of federal unemployment benefits be fully paid for. This failure to act is a body blow to the 1.7 million Americans whose unemployment benefits have been cut off as they desperately seek work. It is unconscionable that a straight up-or-down vote that would restore assistance is being blocked.” ###
02.05.2014	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this hearing. I am pleased to welcome the new Internal Revenue Service Commissioner, John Koskinen, to the Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee. Mr. Commissioner, you have a tough job ahead of you, and I want to thank you for accepting this challenge. Please know that many of us want to work with you to address the financing, services, and staffing problems facing the IRS. As you know, the recent omnibus funding bill provided $11.2 billion for IRS operations in 2014. That is a $1 billion decrease from fiscal year 2010. I am very concerned about the unavoidable reality of these budget cuts. Today, there are thousands fewer IRS workers struggling to meet a heavier workload. Now, it takes much longer for taxpayers to receive responses to their inquiries, and the backlog is not a dream – it is grounded in cold, hard facts. The IRS staff must process 5 million more individual returns and answer 15 million more phone calls with $1 billion less. Let me say that again – 5 million more returns, 15 million more calls, and $1 billion less. My friends, you can only get out what you put in, and you cannot get blood out of a turnip. In particular, I am very concerned that the IRS’ long-standing practice of assisting low-income, elderly, and disabled taxpayers in preparing their returns has been discontinued because of these cuts. Why is this Congress so determine to balance the budget on the backs of the poor? Enforcing tax laws, collecting taxes, and providing services to taxpayers are some of the most vital responsibilities of our government. We cannot keep robbing Peter to pay Paul. Congress cannot cut the IRS budget and hope taxpayers will continue to receive the services they expect and deserve. It is not just the Commissioner who has called for more resources, but also the IRS Oversight Board, the Taxpayer Advocate, and the Treasury Inspector General. When taxpayers cannot get the help they need and deserve from a federal agency, they turn to us. I am hopeful that this committee and the Appropriations Committee will listen. We must do everything in our power to support this agency and its staff. In closing, I’d like to thank you for being here today. I look forward to your testimony and working with you and the members of this committee to address these important issues. ###
02.04.2014	“This weekend House Majority Leader Eric Cantor declared that the Affordable Care Act ‘is on borrowed time.’ Well let’s review what the Affordable Care Act has accomplished on Mr. Cantor’s so-called ‘borrowed time.’ More than three million people have enrolled in private insurance through the new marketplaces. Over six million people have been determined eligible for Medicaid. No one can be denied coverage for a preexisting condition or kicked off an insurance plan. More than 100 million Americans no longer have a lifetime limit on coverage. 105 million Americans have received access to free preventative services. Six million young adults have been able to get health insurance through their parent’s plans. Over seven million senior citizens have saved more than $8.3 billion on prescription drugs. “There have been 130,000 fewer hospital readmissions – meaning not just health care savings but better patient experiences because they are not back in the hospital. “There is a saying about beating a dead horse. In this instance the Republican Majority is beating a very live horse. “The Affordable Care Act is serving millions of our constituents, with more enrolling every day. And politically motivated Republican efforts to repeatedly attack and repeal the ACA are only serving to mislead. Take for example the story told in the Republican response to the State of the Union. It is clear from all of the news reports that the individual from Washington State could have received a much cheaper and more comprehensive insurance plan through the new marketplace than the one used to declare the Affordable Care Act a failure. “Regrettably, rather than working to achieve success, it is clear with every new bill that Republicans simply prefer its failure. Today’s effort is just the latest salvo. “The first bill being considered today, which redefines the work week, would be a tremendous step backward for millions of hard-working Americans, while the second bill is being addressed through regulatory efforts and therefore unnecessary. “Even without that employer mandate in effect yet – the vast majority of employers today offer coverage to their workers. Why? Because providing employee coverage is good for business. “The ACA’s use of a 30-hour standard to define full-time was set to minimize gamesmanship and incentives that might tempt some employers to reduce hours in order to avoid their responsibility to offer affordable coverage, or in order to help offset the “free rider” costs that would come about to public programs as their uninsured workers seek health insurance elsewhere. “Studies have found that raising the threshold from 30 hours to 40 hours would place two to five times as many workers at risk of having their hours reduced and, therefore, at risk of losing benefits. The bottom line is that many businesses define full-time as somewhere between 32-40 hours. While changing to a 40-hour standard might help businesses escape their responsibility to contribute to a healthy workforce, if you care about workers and their benefits, you will oppose this measure. “Regarding the other bill in front of this committee today, H.R. 3979, we welcome – for the first time – Republicans’ embrace of a purely technical correction to the Affordable Care Act, a focus that has long been lacking from the majority. Perhaps this is tacit acknowledgement on their part that health reform is here to stay. “Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Larson, and others took a leading role in advancing this issue. However, legislation is unnecessary at this point. The Administration has already announced that it will use its authority to take the necessary action to ensure that volunteer firefighters and emergency responders will not be treated as employees within the context of the employer mandate. “Once again, this Committee’s time could be far better spent. “There are few more urgent issues that confront us than the fact that 72,000 people every week are being cut off emergency unemployment insurance as a result of its Dec. 28 expiration. That’s the equivalent of one person every eight seconds losing their lifeline while they look for work. “Rather than re-litigating the battle over the ACA yet again, from which millions of Americans currently benefit, this Committee must finally start to tackle the other vital issues that confront our nation.” ###
02.03.2014	More than five weeks since the expiration of the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, nearly 1.7 million people have now been cut off their unemployment benefits, according to a new analysis from Ways and Means Committee Democrats. The estimate includes the number of people in each state who have lost coverage since the Dec. 28 expiration. Every week, 72,000 people, on average, are losing their unemployment benefits nationwide without an extension of the program. Meanwhile, the vast majority of Americans support an extension of federal unemployment insurance, which has never been discontinued with the rate of long-term unemployment as high as it remains today. House Republicans have blocked multiple efforts by Democrats to bring up legislation to extend the program on the House floor. Republicans in Congress must open their eyes and ears to the growing number of people who are desperately seeking work without any unemployment benefits,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “Long-term unemployment remains a monumental challenge individually and for our economy, which is exactly why Republicans should quickly join with Democrats to renew this important program.” State Estimated Number of People Losing UI Thru Feb. 3 AK 6,454 AL 15,651 AR 12,569 AZ 21,427 CA 276,447 CO 25,852 CT 29,516 DC 5,908 DE 4,523 FL 91,327 GA 65,381 HI 3,015 IA 7,800 ID 4,715 IL 99,002 IN 24,085 KS 7,573 KY 21,385 LA 10,217 MA 69,238 MD 28,381 ME 5,012 MI 59,946 MN 15,750 MO 28,137 MS 15,746 MT 3,434 NC* NA ND 1,338 NE 2,796 NH 1,754 NJ 107,435 NM 7,865 NV 21,812 NY 152,638 OH 48,485 OK 7,772 OR 25,644 PA 91,195 PR 35,238 RI 6,612 SC 19,092 SD 354 TN 25,462 TX 84,852 UT 4,365 VA 15,835 VI 1,531 VT 1,042 WA 31,645 WI 31,738 WV 8,865 WY 1,312 Total: 1,695,167 *North Carolina was ineligible for the federal unemployment insurance ###
01.31.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement after President Obama convened a group of CEOs on the topic of long-term unemployment and announced steps to help long-term jobless Americans: Long-term unemployment remains an enormous challenge for millions of Americans and the future of our nation’s economy, which is why it is so vitally important to extend the emergency unemployment insurance program. Unemployment benefits provide critical assistance for jobseekers as they look for work, helping them to feed and clothe their families and allowing them to pay their mortgages. Millions of Americans depend on it, as does our economy. I applaud the administration for today’s action and the commitment from so many employers. It only underscores how vital it is that Republicans join with Democrats to extend the unemployment insurance program.�? ###
01.30.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement regarding Rep. Henry A. Waxman’s announcement that he would not seek reelection: Henry Waxman’s retirement will mean a loss for his district, the state of California and the entire nation. And it will be an especially big loss for his colleagues, among whom he is so widely respected. It has been a privilege to work closely with Henry on the monumental Affordable Care Act, which had been a major personal goal of his for so long. He has been uniquely devoted to environmental issues, reminding us and the nation so eloquently of the challenges of global warming. Our family has had the honor of friendship with the Waxman family since my first days in Congress. I will deeply miss him as a congressional colleague.” ###
01.28.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement after President Obama's State of the Union Address: "The President spoke forcefully of the value of the 1.6 million unemployed millions whose insurance has been cut off and the urgent need for Congress to re-start the federal unemployment insurance program that is a vital lifeline during their job search. The only thing standing in the way of the President's call that these unemployed Americans 'need our help right now' is the resistance of Congressional Republicans. Tonight's speech and the stories of so many job-seeking Americans demand action. The President extended a hand to Republicans in a number of vital areas and I hope they will take him up on the offer to act together. If not, he made it abundantly clear -- and rightfully so -- that as President he will act in every other way possible to advance opportunities for middle class families." ###
01.24.2014	More than 1.6 million job seekers have now been cut off their unemployment insurance, according to a new analysis from Ways and Means Committee Democrats. The projection, which includes the number of people in each state who have been cut off, is based on the number losing benefits since the end of December. Nationwide, nearly 72,000 people are losing unemployment insurance, on average, every week – adding to the 1.3 million Americans who lost their benefits immediately on Dec. 28. House Republicans have blocked multiple efforts by Democrats to bring up legislation to extend the unemployment insurance benefit on the House floor. Senate Republicans last week also voted twice to block legislation to extend the benefit, including an 11-month extension that would scale back the program substantially and offset the costs. More information about the harmful state impacts of the program's expiration is available here. A new poll from Fox News shows that the vast majority of Americans believe the program should be extended, with 69 percent saying that unemployment insurance – both state and federal benefits – should last one year, far beyond what is available to job seekers now that the emergency federal program has expired. House and Senate Democratic leaders will hold a press conference call with Betsey Stevenson of the White House Council of Economic Advisers today at 1:06 p.m. ET to symbolize the number of Americans cut off from UI benefits reaching 1.6 million and highlight the urgent need to extend unemployment insurance for millions of hard-working Americans. As part of the campaign to extend UI benefits, Democratic Members of Congress will also launch a “tweetstorm” at 1:06 p.m. ET to highlight both the importance of renewing this program and continued Republican inaction on the issue. “The harmful impact of failing to renew emergency unemployment insurance continues to spread across the nation,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “I urge Republicans to join with Democrats to extend this vital program before even more Americans are cut off.” State Estimated Number of People Losing UI Thru Jan. 24 AK 6,023 AL 14,928 AR 11,915 AZ 20,562 CA 263,916 CO 24,729 CT 28,412 DC 5,646 DE 4,338 FL 87,662 GA 63,185 HI 2,792 IA 7,100 ID 4,292 IL 95,575 IN 23,108 KS 6,938 KY 20,708 LA 9,740 MA 67,131 MD 27,285 ME 4,669 MI 56,619 MN 14,446 MO 26,775 MS 15,277 MT 3,122 NC* NA ND 1,131 NE 2,477 NH 1,604 NJ 104,008 NM 7,492 NV 20,969 NY 147,531 OH 46,608 OK 7,199 OR 24,529 PA 87,622 PR 34,331 RI 6,269 SC 18,354 SD 323 TN 24,269 TX 80,740 UT 3,992 VA 14,608 VI 1,485 VT 954 WA 30,199 WI 30,131 WV 8,492 WY 1,169 Total: 1,623,379 *North Carolina was ineligible for the federal unemployment insurance ###
01.22.2014	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today joined with his fellow Co-Chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, Representatives Jim Gerlach (R-PA) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), in issuing the following statement regarding recent violence in Kyiv and the passage of anti-democratic legislation. We are gravely alarmed by reports of at least three deaths and scores of injuries during recent clashes in Kyiv. We continue to condemn the use of violence by government authorities as well as by fringe extremist groups and provocateurs, both of which are attempting to discredit the peaceful protest movement. We were also similarly alarmed by the Verkhovna Rada’s rushed passage of draconian anti-democratic legislation—an action that directly precipitated the increased instability of recent days. Since the beginning of the crisis, President Yanukovych has repeatedly stated a preference for a peaceful solution that creates the conditions for a fully democratic Ukraine; however, the actions of the Government of Ukraine have consistently undermined that goal. Now is the time for all sides to reject violence and instead engage in a full and representative national dialogue to realize that solution. Specifically, we call on the Government of Ukraine to immediately cease the use of violence; repeal the recently-passed anti-democratic legislation; recognize the human rights of peaceful protestors and independent media; and participate in a true dialogue with the opposition. We applaud the State Department’s recent step to revoke the visas of several individuals responsible for violence and—should the Government of Ukraine continue down the road of repression—urge the Obama Administration to use its existing legal authorities to continue to impose sanctions against appropriate individuals. ###
01.15.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made remarks on the House floor today on the Republican myths about unemployment insurance: “As we meet today 1.5 million long-term unemployed Americans are left out in the cold,” said Rep. Levin. “Adding to that total, 72,000 each week. If we don't act, it is estimated that an additional 3.6 million will lose their benefits by the end of this year. Why hasn’t Congress acted? Partly because of myths, and I want to address them today.” Myth 1: The need for these benefits is over Nearly 38% of jobless long-term unemployed – twice rate when EUC started. Highest ever recorded before this recession was 26%. Myth 2: Unemployment benefits create a dependency and is a “disservice” Overwhelming research rebuts this – unemployment benefits help people looking for work. Unemployment insurance recipients must actively look for work to be eligible for benefits. The average benefit $300 a week. Myth 3: The jobs are there There are still 1 million fewer jobs today than when the recession began in 2007. When Wal-Mart opened a store in D.C. 23,000 people applied for 600 positions. In Hagerstown, MD, 36 job openings at an ice cream plant attracted 1,600 job applications. Myth 4: North Carolina shows if you end unemployment insurance the unemployment rate goes down because people go to work In fact the opposite is true. People stop looking for work — the vast majority of the drop in unemployment rate in North Carolina was because of people leaving the labor force. Myth 5: 99 weeks of unemployment insurance is too many. Actually, the program hasn’t provided 99 weeks of coverage in two years. Last year, the maximum benefit was 73 weeks and it was only available in 3 states. The average nationwide was 54 weeks. Now just 1-in-4 unemployed people receive unemployment benefits, the lowest rate on record. Myth 6: The unemployment insurance program needs to be reduced as the unemployment rate goes down Already done – the current program is set up to be scaled back as state unemployment rates drop. Only 3 states were eligible for the maximum benefit before the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program expired. Myth 7: An extension of the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program must be paid for This remains an emergency for 1.5 million long-term unemployed people. None of the 5 unemployment insurance extensions signed into law by President Bush were offset. Senate Democratic proposal paid for an 11-month extension. This proposal was voted down by Senate Republicans. Myth 8: The unemployment insurance program is not necessary. In 2012, federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation lifted 2.5 million people out of poverty. Myth 9: We need more economic growth, not more unemployment insurance Congressional Republicans have stymied every effort to help the recovery. Unemployment insurance helps promote economic growth -- CBO estimates 200,000 fewer jobs in 2014 without extension. Republicans should not punish those desperately looking for a job while also blocking efforts to help grow economy. ###
01.14.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after Senate Republicans twice blocked an extension of federal unemployment insurance, which expired Dec. 28 and has now cut off benefits to 1.5 million, a figure that grows by 72,000 people, on average, each week: It is outrageous that Senate Republicans turned their back on 1.5 million Americans and their families. This is not the end of our effort to ensure that the stories of the unemployed are told so we can get back to having a program that supports them while they look for work. Congressional Republicans say they want the cost of continuing emergency unemployment benefits offset – a step not usually taken for emergencies. And yet they blocked an extension of unemployment benefits that included spending offsets. Republicans say they want changes to the program, but they blocked a bill that would have significantly scaled back the federal unemployment insurance program. Republicans say they want votes on amendments, but they blocked the extension of unemployment benefits even when given the opportunity to offer amendments. Helping the unemployed during tough times was once a bipartisan endeavor. But now Republicans in Congress seem much more interested in finding excuses, rather than finding a path forward, when it comes to restoring benefits to Americans desperately searching for work. This is a very sad day for our nation and for 1.5 million Americans and their families. Leaving them out in the cold is unconscionable.” ###
01.13.2014	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding Rep. George Miller’s announcement that he will retire at the end of this term: No one has cared more, worked harder and been more effective on behalf of middle-income families and others as they look to climb up the ladder of opportunity than George Miller. That’s been uniquely demonstrated by his work on education, health care, minimum wage and student loans. Congress will be losing an ardent champion of workers, families and students everywhere.” ###
01.13.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement on the latest enrollment numbers released by HHS. The data show that nearly 2.2 million people have selected a health insurance plan through the state and federal marketplaces: “Today’s report shows that Americans are voting for the Affordable Care Act with their feet. Republicans can no longer ignore the facts: the Affordable Care Act is here to stay and dismantling the law would only hurt their constituents. CMS today provided detailed data about the nearly 2.2 million people have selected a health insurance plan through the state and federal marketplaces. Yet the Republicans continue their attacks including the bill on the floor this week asking CMS for the data they have already provided. This proves again that the Republicans are short-sighted and hell-bent on putting up barriers to people getting real care.” HHS DATA Of the almost 2.2 million: 54 percent are female and 46 percent are male; 30 percent are age 34 and under; 24 percent are between the ages of 18 and 34, and; 60 percent selected a Silver plan, while 20 percent selected a Bronze plan; and 79 percent selected a plan with Financial Assistance. ###
01.09.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the release of the Republican budget: “As a framework for the American people’s future the Republican Budget fails. It ends the Medicare program as we know it, destroys the fabric of programs that bolster low- and middle-income families and adopts a tax structure that would help the very wealthy at the expense of the middle class. At a time when our economy needs us to stick to a path of investment and smart fiscal restraint the Republican budget makes so many wrong choices and would set our economy back.” ###
01.09.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement regarding the introduction of TPA legislation by Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp, Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus and Senate Finance Ranking Member Orrin Hatch: Since Congress passed Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) over a decade ago, globalization has intensified dramatically, its impact on American businesses and workers has been profound, and major new issues have proliferated. The 2002 TPA became utilized mostly in negotiating single nation trade agreements affecting a relatively small portion of our economy. What the U.S is now engaged in is negotiating major multi-party agreements, including with 11 Pacific nations and with the entire European Union, affecting a huge percentage of the U.S. and the global economy. The 2002 TPA did not ensure an intensive role for Congress at the outset, during, and as negotiations were being completed, leaving the role of Congress mostly to say “yes or no” at the end. Congress played a major role only when an Administration had already failed to address key issues like labor, the environment, medicines, and non-tariff barriers so that some of us in Congress had to negotiate directly with other nations. The USTR must be the negotiators on trade agreements; the Congress must be an active, effective partner with major input at all stages. The 2002 model must be clearly replaced with a different model; a more robust structure that meets today’s challenges. The effort by Sen. Baucus, Rep. Camp and Sen. Hatch has fallen far short of adequately replacing the failed 2002 TPA model. I do not support their proposal and am working with colleagues to develop legislation that fully meets today’s needs in a rapidly globalizing economy. Moreover, legislation needs to address currency manipulation not only through a ‘negotiating objective’, but also through legislation that provides direct relief to U.S. industries materially injured by imports. In 2010, the House passed a currency bill by a vote of 348 to 79, with a strong majority of both parties. The following year, the Senate passed a bill that included these same provisions, by a vote of 63 to 35, but the House did not act. Now is the time to pass that legislation into law. Any TPA must have the following characteristics: Priority Change #1: Meaningful Role of Congress Because trade agreements today address a broad range of policy areas, more Members of Congress must play a role – and Congress as a whole must play a greater role – in the development and oversight of those agreements. The House and Senate should each establish a bipartisan group of Members that would serve as a nucleus to be effectively involved on an ongoing basis. These House and Senate Trade Advisors would be comprised of Members who serve on the Committees of Jurisdiction (i.e., Ways and Means or Finance) and Members chosen by House or Senate leadership. Congress should have a role in determining the trading partners we negotiate with and should not simply grant the President ‘fast track’ authority to negotiate a trade agreement with any foreign country that the President chooses. The House and Senate Trade Advisors, described above, should determine whether a particular agreement proposed by the President should be subject to a fast track process before the negotiations begin. We also should seek the views of other Committees within the Congress as to how the negotiations affect matters within their jurisdiction. A new TPA must also ensure meaningful consultations with Congress during negotiations. There must be mechanisms like the one that was an important part of the “fast track” law enacted by Congress in the 1980s that would remove fast track rules if the Senate Finance Committee or the Ways and Means Committee disapproves of the agreement during the negotiations. Trade negotiating authority legislation should return to that provision and include a sizeable Minority disapproval resolution to bring the matter before the entire Congress. Finally, at the conclusion of negotiations, Congress must have a stronger role in determining whether the negotiating objectives have been met. The bipartisan House and Senate Trade Advisors should determine whether they believe the negotiating objectives have been satisfied. Priority Change #2: Transparency USTR must make available to all Members of Congress and all staff with the necessary security clearance the text of the negotiations, including the proposals of our trading partners. We must also have a much more effective stakeholder advisory committee process than we do today so that the sectoral and functional advisory committees are representative of all industry, labor, agricultural, or services interests (including small business interests) in the sector or functional areas concerned. These private sector advisory committees must have access to the negotiating text. Finally, a new TPA will require USTR to publicly release summaries of its negotiating proposals and to provide opportunities for public comment. Priority Change #3: Negotiating Objectives that Ensure Reciprocity and Reflect American Values The negotiating objectives must include the labor, environmental, and access to medicine provisions from the ‘May 10 Agreement’ of 2007. And we must do more to ensure that our trading partners do not gain competitive advantages through weak labor and environmental laws and enforcement – a challenge that Vietnam’s inclusion in TPP makes clear. On currency manipulation, bipartisan majorities in both the House and the Senate have urged the President to include strong and enforceable disciplines on currency manipulation in trade agreements. Rather than laying out options that the President already has to address currency manipulation, Congress needs to provide direction on this issue, consistent with its Constitutional mandate on trade. We also should instruct our trade negotiators to directly address large and persistent trade imbalances; limit the liability of Internet intermediaries in a manner consistent with U.S. law and preserve and advance the multi-stakeholder model that governs the Internet; and ensure that trade and investment obligations do not undermine the ability of governments to protect legitimate public welfare objectives, such as the environment and public health and safety. Priority Change #4: Strengthening U.S. Competitiveness and Enforcement We should not enact trade negotiating authority legislation without also passing legislation that strengthens the enforcement of existing trade agreements and laws and develops a broad competitiveness strategy so that U.S. workers and businesses have the tools to compete in the global marketplace. In addition to legislation to address currency manipulation, we need to strengthen the enforcement of U.S. trade remedy laws by Customs. We also need to consider legislation to establish a Congressional Trade Enforcement Office to monitor and help develop trade cases against foreign countries, along with other trade enforcement legislation. And we should consider measures to encourage production and create jobs in the United States, and measures to help small businesses export overseas. These and other competitiveness and enforcement provisions must be part of any meaningful trade bill. Trade Adjustment Assistance We also need to act immediately to reauthorize Trade Adjustment Assistance. Many key TAA provisions expired last month. As a result, service workers as a class are no longer eligible for TAA; workers who lose their jobs to non-FTA partners (e.g., China) are no longer eligible for benefits; and training funding is being cut by more than 50%. In addition, the Health Care Tax Credit expired last month. Although in many cases the Affordable Care Act will make current HCTC beneficiaries whole (and in some cases better off), there are HCTC beneficiaries who will not be made whole by the ACA. These include some Pension Benefit Guaranty beneficiaries, as well as very poor people living in states that have rejected additional funding available pursuant to the ACA (i.e., Medicaid expansion). Finally, TAA as a whole expires at the end of 2014. TAA legislation stands on its own merits. Congress should reauthorize it program without further delay. ###
01.09.2014	On Dec. 28, 1.3 million Americans immediately lost all of their unemployment insurance, with the expiration of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program. Every week, on average, an additional 72,000 Americans are cut off -- the equivalent of one person every eight seconds. Democrats are urging House Republicans to end their opposition and join the effort to extend the program. This vital economic lifeline helps struggling Americans feed and clothe their families while they look for new employment. More information about how many people are being cut off in each state is available here. Here is the count of Americans who have lost their unemployment insurance as a result of the program's expiration. It is illustrative of the approximately 72,000 Americans who are losing benefits, on average every week:
01.06.2014	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to the CMS Report that showed a 0.1% decline in National Health Expenditures (NHE) as a percent of GDP from 2011 to 2012. “This is important news. While overall health spending has remained stable for four years in a row, this report shows that health spending as a percent of GDP has dropped for the first time since 1997. Furthermore, because of reforms to Medicare in the Affordable Care Act, Medicare per person spending growth is at a historic low, while benefits have increased. This shows that despite Republican talking points, we don’t need to end Medicare to save it.” ###
01.03.2014	The expiration of federal unemployment insurance at the end of last week is already taking more than $400 million out of the pockets of American job seekers nationwide and state economies, according to a new analysis by Ways and Means Committee Democrats. Unemployment insurance is viewed as a very effective fiscal stimulus because jobless Americans tend to spend their unemployment insurance right away. The analysis spells out how much federal funding each state is going without in the first week since the emergency Federal Unemployment Compensation program expired. In Illinois, nearly 82,000 people lost an average $313 weekly benefit for a total statewide economic impact of $25 million. In Ohio, more than 39,000 people lost an average weekly benefit of $312 for a total statewide economic impact of $12 million. At 11 a.m. this morning, Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD) will join former Labor Secretary Robert Reich and Harvard economist Lawrence Katz in holding a press call to highlight the harmful economic impact that will result if Republicans in Congress don’t agree to extend the program. “In state after state, Americans who have lost their federal unemployment insurance in one fell swoop last week are struggling to get by,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Levin. “Every week that Republicans fail to act tens of thousands of additional long-term unemployed Americans lose this vital lifeline as they look to get back on their feet after the worst recession in generations, and the economy in each state is taking a hit.” Overall, failing to renew the EUC program will cost the economy 200,000 jobs this year, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Note that the below estimate is conservative because it only takes into account the total dollar amount provided per week by the now expired EUC program. Economists generally multiply these estimates by 1.5 to 2 to show the true economic impact. *Estimates exclude North Carolina, which ended its EUC08 program in July 2013. US Dept. of Labor, Office of Unemployment Insurance. ###
12.31.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today called on Congress to immediately extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Workers program in January. As of today, key portions of the 2009 reforms expire and leave workers without critical retraining supports in the New Year. "TAA is our commitment to workers competing in a globalized economy and we must immediately extend the improvements that we made in 2009 when Congress returns," said Ranking Member Levin. Key new parts of TAA expire at the end of this year while the pre-2009 program continues for a year. For example, workers adversely affected by imports from many of our trading partners, including China, will no longer be eligible for TAA. Service workers will no longer be eligible, as a class, to receive TAA. A supplemental program for older workers will end. Funding for training – the key to helping our workers get back on the job – will be cut in half.
12.30.2013	Ways and Means Committee Democrats today released new estimates showing how many additional people in every state will lose their unemployment benefits each week that the federal program remains expired. On Saturday, 1.3 million people nationwide lost their federal unemployment insurance. In the first six months of 2014, an additional 1.9 million Americans will lose their coverage as they exhaust their state benefits and are unable to receive federal unemployment insurance – with 72,000 losing their benefits each week during the first half of 2014. The figures are based on Department of Labor data. In Texas, more than 4,000 additional people will lose their benefits, on average, each week going forward. In Illinois, an additional 3,400 state residents, on average, will lose their unemployment insurance each week. The full state-by-state estimates are below. The federal program, which expired Saturday, provided up to 47 weeks of federal benefits on top of state benefits – for a maximum of 73 weeks of state and federal unemployment insurance. “The clock is ticking each week for tens of thousands of additional Americans who are slated to lose their coverage and add to the more than 1.3 million people who have already been cut off from this basic assistance for job seekers,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “Every day, the urgency increases for additional Americans looking for work and those who have already lost this vital lifeline.” STATE Number Who Were Cut Off UI on Dec. 28 Additional Number Losing UI Each Week During First Half of 2014 AK 4,300 431 AL 12,036 723 AR 9,300 654 AZ 17,100 865 CA 213,793 12,531 CO 20,237 1123 CT 23997 1104 DC 4,600 262 DE 3,600 185 FL 73,000 3,665 GA 54,400 2,196 HI 1,900 223 IA 4,300 700 ID 2,600 423 IL 81,867 3,427 IN 19,200 977 KS 4,400 635 KY 18,000 677 LA 7,832 477 MA 58,700 2,108 MD 22,900 1,096 ME 3,300 342 MI 43,311 3,327 MN 9,231 1,304 MO 21,329 1,362 MS 13,400 469 MT 1,876 312 NC - NA ND 300 208 NE 1,200 319 NH 1,004 150 NJ 90,300 3,427 NM 6,000 373 NV 17,600 842 NY 127,100 5,108 OH 39,100 1,877 OK 4,907 573 OR 20,067 1,115 PA 73,330 3,573 PR 30,700 908 RI 4,900 342 SC 15,400 738 SD 200 31 TN 19,500 1,192 TX 64,294 4,112 UT 2,500 373 VA 9,700 1,227 VI 1,300 46 VT 600 88 WA 24,414 1,446 WI 23,700 1,608 WV 7,000 373 WY 600 142 Total: 1,336,225 71,788 ###
12.23.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response to the article in today’s New York Times on U.S. government procurement of apparel from suppliers in Bangladesh and other similar countries: “Today's story in the New York Times illustrates vividly the lack of a worker voice in the factories in Bangladesh and other countries where we source our clothing. I clearly saw that missing voice when I was in Bangladesh in August. The consequences are also clearly shown and they are shameful, with workers often deprived of the most basic guarantees of safety. The U.S. government needs to ensure that it is not supporting practices that silence and imperil workers. A good first step would be to ensure that our military exchanges improve their procurement practices and we will continue to work to that end.” ###
12.20.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement today after President Obama announced his intent to nominate Sen. Max Baucus to be the next Ambassador to China: I congratulate President Obama on an excellent decision to nominate Sen. Baucus to be the next U.S. Ambassador to China. Our relationship with China is among the most important in the world and, in deciding to nominate Sen. Baucus, the President has chosen a leader with a broad and intense background on key issues that affect that relationship. Sen. Baucus has served our nation with distinction for four decades and there is no doubt that he will continue to do so in his new role as Ambassador to China.” ###
12.18.2013	The Michigan Department of Licensing & Regulatory Affairs today began notifying more than 43,000 people in the state that they face a Dec. 28 cut-off of all of their unemployment insurance. House Republicans last week adjourned without putting a bill on the floor to extend the federal program, which provides Michiganders who have been out of work for longer than 20 weeks with federal unemployment compensation while they continue to look for work. The cut-off on Dec. 28 is immediate, meaning that the more than 43,000 people currently receiving federal unemployment insurance will no longer receive insurance beyond that date, unless Congress acts. A copy of the letter, available here and below, highlights the problems that families throughout the state are soon expected to face, as their coverage is shut-off. After informing the recipients of the pending expiration, the letter goes on to cite resources that are available in the absence of unemployment insurance, including foreclosure assistance, utility payment assistance and food assistance. “The harmful consequences of allowing unemployment insurance to expire for the tens of thousands of people are made crystal clear in this letter. Their lives will be upturned in just over a week,” said U.S. Rep. Sander Levin. “It is vital that House Republicans end their opposition to extending this program and agree to immediately take up a bill on the floor.” This week, Rep. Levin, along with Sens. Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow, released a county-by-county breakdown of the 43,000 people statewide who are scheduled to lose their unemployment insurance Dec. 28. A copy of the letter that went out today from the Michigan Department of Licensing & Regulatory Affairs is here. A picture of the letter is below: ###
12.16.2013	U.S. Sens. Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow and U.S. Rep. Sander Levin today released a new report that shows a county-by-county breakdown of the number of people who would immediately lose all of their unemployment insurance on Dec. 28 if Congress fails to extend the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program. Republicans last week blocked an effort by House Democrats to extend the program into 2014. The county-by-county report, based on the total number of people in Michigan currently receiving federal unemployment insurance, is below. The information was provided by the Michigan Department of Licensing & Regulatory Affairs. Overall, more than 43,000 people in Michigan are set to lose their insurance coverage immediately on Dec. 28. An additional 86,500 people in Michigan will lose their coverage in the first six months of 2014 if Republicans continue to block an extension of the program. Federal unemployment insurance took effect in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since as Americans continue to recover from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Despite the real progress the economy has made since its near collapse in 2008, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs than there were before the recession began, long-term unemployment as a percentage of the unemployed is 37 percent, near historic highs, and the unemployment rate in Michigan was 9 percent in October. Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance would also hurt job growth throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. The CEA estimates that in Michigan alone, failing to extend the program will cost 8,450 jobs. “Michigan and the nation are still recovering from the worst recession in decades, and now is not the time to end support that is so critical to tens of thousands of Michigan families,” said Sen. Carl Levin. “It is vital to extend this important economic lifeline as soon as possible.” "This report shows just how many Michigan families could have their last lifeline cut off this Christmas season," Sen. Debbie Stabenow said. “The economy is improving, but Michigan's unemployment rate is still nine percent and nationally there are still three people looking for work for every one job opening. Congress needs to focus on helping businesses create jobs, not pulling the rug out from under families already struggling to find work.” “The financial stakes could not be higher for thousands of Michigan families just as the holiday season approaches,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Failing to extend this program would cut off a vital lifeline for job seekers as they try to get back on their feet during this difficult economic climate. To strengthen these families and the American economy, Congress must not adjourn for the year without extending this crucial program.” ###
12.15.2013	Rep. Paul Ryan this morning incorrectly asserted on Fox News that Democrats never offered a payfor for an extension of the federal unemployment insurance program, which is set to expire Dec. 28. He also incorrectly claimed that Democrats only pushed for an extension to be included in the budget negotiations at the 11th hour. Here are the facts: FACT CHECK MYTH: Ryan on Fox News -- "when they asked to put it in there, they had no way to pay for it." FACT: At the Rules Committee meeting on Wednesday, Reps. Sander Levin and Chris Van Hollen offered an amendment to include a three-month extension of federal unemployment insurance, with offsets. Republicans rejected that proposal. MYTH: Ryan on Fox News – “[It was] the 11th hour when they asked to put it in there." FACT: Democrats have been pushing for an extension for weeks, having released a comprehensive report Nov. 7 laying out the need for an extension of the program. What’s more, Rep. Sander Levin spoke with Rep. Paul Ryan on Nov. 20 and urged him to include an extension of federal unemployment insurance in the budget conference. ###
12.11.2013	House Democrats today are urging Speaker Boehner not to adjourn the House for the year without bringing up an extension of federal unemployment insurance, which is scheduled to expire Dec. 28, immediately cutting of all jobless aid to 1.3 million Americans. An additional 1.9 million Americans who are estimated to be eligible for federal unemployment insurance in the first half of 2014 would lose access to that coverage. For a state-by-state breakdown of the effects, click here. One hundred and sixty-six House Democrats today are sending the following letter to Speaker Boehner urging him to immediately bring up an extension of federal unemployment insurance and to not adjourn the House for the year until he does: December 11, 2013The Honorable John BoehnerSpeaker, U.S. House of RepresentativesH232, U.S. CapitolWashington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: We write to urge you to address the looming expiration of unemployment benefits for millions of Americans before adjourning Congress for the remainder of the year. Without swift Congressional action, 1.3 million jobless workers will have their benefits cut off on December 28th, and nearly another 1.9 million will lose their unemployment benefits over the first half of next year. This would not only be a devastating blow for millions of Americans who are already struggling, but it would also hurt our economy. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program is scheduled to immediately and completely stop at the end of 2013, during the holiday season, with the last payable week ending on December 28th. All current EUC beneficiaries will lose their benefits, and individuals exhausting their limited state unemployment benefits will no longer be eligible for EUC benefits in 2014. This cutoff will affect over 3 million Americans over the next six months, and thereby also negatively impact our economic growth. In fact, recent estimates indicate that the expiration of the EUC program would cost our economy 310,000 jobs and drain roughly four-tenths of a percentage point from first-quarter economic growth. While unemployment benefits remain a critical lifeline for dislocated workers and their families, these benefits have recently been significantly scaled back. According to the Congressional Research Service, the total amount of weeks of unemployment benefits has dropped by more than a third across the states, and by more than 50 percent in some states, compared to two years ago. Furthermore, the recipients have seen their weekly benefit payment provided by the EUC program cut under sequestration. Even with the progress our economy has seen since the depths of the recession, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs today than when the recession started six years ago. Additionally, approximately 4 million Americans are considered long-term unemployed, and have been looking for work for more than six months. Now is certainly not the time to further decimate vital federal assistance to workers who have lost their job through no fault of their own and who must actively seek work in order to be eligible for unemployment benefits. We therefore strongly urge you to immediately bring up a one-year extension of the current EUC program. Thank you for your attention to this critical issue. Sincerely, Sander LevinBarbara LeeLloyd DoggettSteny H. HoyerJames ClyburnXavier BecerraJoe CrowleySteve IsraelRobert AndrewsKaren BassJoyce BeattyAmi BeraSanford Bishop, Jr.Tim BishopEarl BlumenauerSuzanne BonamiciRobert A. BradyBruce BraleyCorrine BrownJulia BrownleyCheri BustosG.K. ButterfieldLois CappsMichael CapuanoTony CardenasMatt CartwrightJoaquin CastroKathy CastorDonna M. ChristensenJudy ChuDavid CicillineYvette ClarkeWm. Lacy ClayEmanuel CleaverSteve CohenJohn Conyers, Jr.Gerald E. ConnollyJim CooperJim CostaJoe CourtneyElijah E. CummingsDanny K. DavisPeter DeFazioDiana DeGetteJohn DelaneyRosa L. DeLauroSuzan DelBeneTed DeutchJohn D. DingellDonna F. EdwardsKeith EllisonEliot L. EngelWilliam EnyartAnna EshooElizabeth H. EstySam FarrChaka FattahBill FosterLois FrankelMarcia L. FudgeJohn GaramendiAlan GraysonAl GreenGene GreenRaul GrijalvaMichelle Lujan GrishamLuis V. GutierrezJanice HahnColleen HanabusaAlcee L. HastingsDenny HeckBrian HigginsJames A. HimesRuben HinojosaRush HoltMichael HondaSteven HorsfordJared HuffmanHakeem S. JeffriesHenry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr.Marcy KapturWilliam KeatingJoseph P. Kennedy, IIIDaniel KildeeDerek KilmerRon KindAnn KirkpatrickAnn McLane KusterJames R. LangevinJohn B. LarsonSheila Jackson LeeJohn LewisDaniel LipinskiDave LoebsackAlan S. LowenthalNita LoweyBen Ray LujanStephen F. LynchCarolyn MaloneyCarolyn McCarthyBetty McCollumJim McDermottJames P. McGovernPatrick E. MurphyGrace F. NapolitanoGloria Negrete McLeodRick NolanGregory MeeksMichael H. MichaudGeorge MillerGwen MooreJames P. MoranJerrold NadlerRichard E. NealEleanor Holmes NortonBeto O’RourkeFrank Pallone, Jr.Bill Pascrell, Jr.Ed PastorDonald M. Payne, Jr.Ed PerlmutterGary C. PetersChellie PingreePedro R. PierluisiMark PocanDavid PriceMike QuigleyNick J. RahallCharles RangelCedric RichmondLucille Roybal-AllardC.A. Dutch RuppersbergerBobby L. RushTim RyanLinda T. SanchezLoretta SanchezJohn P. SarbanesJanice D. SchakowskyAdam B. SchiffAllyson Y. SchwartzBrad ShermanRobert C. "Bobby" ScottJose E. SerranoTerri A. SewellCarol Shea-PorterKyrsten SinemaAlbio SiresLouise M. SlaughterJackie SpeierMark TakanoBennie ThompsonMike ThompsonJohn F. TierneyDina TitusPaul TonkoMarc VeaseyNydia VelázquezChris Van HollenJuan VargasDebbie Wasserman SchultzMaxine WatersMelvin L. WattHenry A. WaxmanPeter WelchFrederica WilsonJohn A. Yarmuth ###
12.10.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement today regarding the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations: “My colleagues and I look forward to receiving a full report from Ambassador Froman on the progress that was achieved during the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations in Singapore. The TPP represents an important opportunity for the United States in knitting together economically an important region of the world, expanding opportunities for U.S. businesses and workers, and setting clear rules on a wide range of important issues impacting both competition in a globalized world, development, and the health and welfare of people. "In order to achieve its potential it is vital that TPP effectively address outstanding issues and this remains far more important than any deadline. Clearly, critical work lies ahead. “These vital issues include: real opening of the Japanese automotive and agriculture markets; the rules of origin for industrial goods, enforceable worker rights and environmental protections (“May 10th agreement”); access to medicines and other intellectual property issues; unfair trading practices that go to the heart of competition like currency manipulation, the need to include specific steps to address state-owned enterprises and the Vietnam labor market , investment and dispute settlement; treatment of cross border data flows and a regulatory framework that does not compromise our food safety regime. “In the period ahead it is critically important that Congress be fully informed and actively and meaningfully involved as to strategy and substance as the United States negotiators work to bring these issues to an effective conclusion. The expired 2002 Trade Promotion Authority failed to ensure the effective involvement of Congress, and that must be remedied. Trade agreements today address a broad range of policy areas, so Members of Congress must play a role – and Congress as a whole must be a full partner in the development and oversight of trade agreements.” ###
12.05.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding this morning’s release of a new White House Council of Economic Advisers report: “The Economic Benefits of Extending Unemployment Insurance,” which highlights the urgent economic need to reauthorize the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program that expires Dec. 28. The report underscores that never before has Congress failed to extend an emergency federal unemployment program when the unemployment rate has been as high as it is today – 7.3 percent. What’s more, the long-term unemployment rate (2.6 percent) is at least twice as high as it was at the expiration of every previous extended UI benefits program. The report concludes that failing to extend the program would cost the economy 240,000 jobs next year, with a state-by-state analysis of the jobs impact. Also, this morning at 10:30 a.m. in Rayburn B-318 House Democrats will hear from unemployed Americans who would be impacted by the failure to extend the program. “The stakes could not be higher for millions of American families as we near the end of the year,” Rep. Levin of the new CEA report. “Never before has Congress failed to provide federal unemployment insurance when the unemployment rate – especially for long-term unemployment – is as high as it is today. The undeniable fact is that millions of Americans are still recovering from the deepest recession most of them have ever seen. Pulling the plug on this program will only further set back the overall national economic recovery.” The CEA report is available here, with the Executive Summary below: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The United States economy continues to recover from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, and while substantial progress has been made, more work remains to boost economic growth and speed job creation. Despite ten consecutive quarters of GDP growth and 7.8 million private sector jobs added since early 2010, the unemployment rate is unacceptably high at 7.3 percent, and far too many families are still struggling to regain the foothold they had prior to the crisis. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program authorized by Congress in 2008 has provided crucial support to the economy and to millions of Americans who lost jobs through no fault of their own. Under current law, EUC will end on December 28, 20131. This report argues that allowing EUC to expire would be harmful to millions of workers and their families, counterproductive to the economic recovery, and unprecedented in the context of previous extensions to earlier unemployment insurance programs. Since their inception in 2008, extended unemployment insurance (UI) benefits have provided critical support to millions of workers and their families: Nearly 24 million workers have received extended UI benefits Recipients are a diverse group: roughly half have completed at least some college, including 4.8 million with bachelor’s degrees or higher Including workers’ families, nearly 69 million people have been supported by extended UI benefits, including almost 17 million children In 2012 alone, UI benefits lifted an estimated 2.5 million people out of poverty Millions of workers stand to lose access to UI benefits if no action is taken: Approximately 1.3 million workers currently receiving extended UI benefits are set to lose them at the end of the year 3.6 million additional people will lose access to UI benefits beyond 26 weeks by the end of 2014 Allowing UI to expire would be damaging to the macro-economy and the labor force: Failing to extend UI benefits would put a dent in job-seekers’ incomes, reducing demand and costing 240,000 jobs in 2014. Estimates from the Congressional Budget Office and JP Morgan suggest that without an extension of EUC GDP will be .2 to .4 percentage points lower. In 2011, CBO found that aid to the unemployed is among the policies with “the largest effects on output and employment per dollar of budgetary cost” In over a dozen studies, economists have found that any disincentive to find new work that could result from extended UI benefits is, at most, small Expiration of extended UI benefits may also lead some long-term unemployed to stop looking for work and leave the labor force, reducing the number who could eventually find jobs as the economy heals Allowing EUC to expire would be unprecedented in the context of previous extensions to earlier unemployment insurance programs: The unemployment rate (7.3% in October) is currently higher than it was at the expiration of any previous extended UI benefits program The long-term unemployment rate (2.6% in October) is at least twice as high as it was at the expiration of every previous extended UI benefits program Consistent with previous programs, the EUC program has been gradually phasing down – the median number of weeks one can receive benefits across states is down from a peak of 53 weeks in 2010 to 28 weeks currently and 14 weeks under the proposed extension ###
12.05.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following opening statement at the Steering and Policy Committee hearing this morning on the urgent need to extend unemployment insurance. The hearing came just hours after the White House Council of Economic Advisers released a new report: “The Economic Benefits of Extending Unemployment Insurance,” which highlights the vital economic need to reauthorize the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program that expires Dec. 28. In human and in economic terms, this Congress has a mandate to extend federal unemployment insurance. We will in a few minutes see the human side – from the three Americans who are joining us to tell their personal stories. They represent more than one million other Americans with similar stories who will lose every dime of this support instantly on December 28 if this Congress fails to act. A further 3.6 million Americans would lose access to federal unemployment insurance next year as they exhaust their state coverage. I strongly believe that if every Member of Congress would take even a few minutes to speak personally with unemployed workers, there wouldn't be any question at all about the need to extend the federal UI program. More than anything else, they want a job. But finding work remains very difficult in an economy that still has 1.5 million fewer jobs than before the recession started six years ago. We have never had anything close to such a sustained jobs deficit after any recent downturn. It has been said in opposition to an extension that the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program was adopted "for extraordinary circumstances that are disappearing.” No. These extraordinary circumstances continue as indicated in the report issued just this morning by President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers that highlights that the current long-term unemployment rate is at least twice as high as it was at the expiration of every previous extended UI benefits program. The report also sets out the economic impact of a failure to act. It agrees with the Congressional Budget Office, Wall Street analysts, and other economists that allowing the Federal UI program to expire will cost our economy at least 200,000 jobs next year because of reduced consumer demand. For this Congress to ignore the national economic impact would be shortsighted. To ignore the individual human impact would be coldhearted. That is not the better nature of our nation, and I trust of our Congress. ###
12.03.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin today made the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office estimated that failure to extend the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program would cost the economy 200,000 jobs. Earlier today, Ways and Means Committee Democrats today released a new report highlighting the damaging effect of an expiration of the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program on military veterans and children of unemployed Americans. Without action, the federal program will expire on Dec. 28, immediately cutting off insurance for 1.3 million Americans. LEVIN: “Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance would hit jobless Americans with a one-two punch just days after Christmas. In one fell swoop, 1.3 million Americans would lose all of their unemployment insurance and the economy would lose a vital stimulus, costing it hundreds of thousands of jobs. Congress must act now to prevent this financial cliff.” ###
12.03.2013	Ways and Means Committee Democrats today released a new report highlighting the damaging effect of an expiration of the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program on military veterans and children of unemployed Americans. Without action, the federal program will expire on Dec. 28, immediately cutting off insurance for 1.3 million Americans. Hundreds of thousands more Americans who exhaust their state unemployment insurance in the coming months will have no federal program to turn to. Today’s report builds off a November report by Ways and Means Democrats that includes a state-by-state analysis showing how many Americans in each state would immediately lose coverage the week of Dec. 28. The new report is available here. Key points include: More than 20,000 veterans would immediately be cut off from federal unemployment insurance the week of Dec. 28 if Congress does not reauthorize the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program. As many as 2 million children could be impacted by ending the federal EUC program. Without the federal EUC program, less than a quarter of unemployed Americans would have received unemployment benefits, the lowest UI recipiency rate for Americans looking for work in more than 50 years. Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) last month introduced legislation – along with Sen. Jack Reed (D-RI) in the Senate – to extend the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program through 2014. “Millions of unemployed Americans and their children would be left out in the economic cold just days after Christmas unless Congress acts to extend this vital program,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin. “This report just adds to the urgency that confronts this Congress over the next two weeks. Congress must act.” “Withholding benefits from those actively seeking work in a poor economic climate makes as much sense as withholding aid from those hurt by a poor climate,” said Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett. “Cutting benefits can batter a household like a storm can tear at a house.” ###
12.02.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today joined with his fellow Co-Chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, Representatives Jim Gerlach (R-PA) and Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), in issuing the following statement regarding the protests in Kyiv’s Independence Square and throughout Ukraine: As the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, we denounce the violent attacks by Ukrainian government authorities against peaceful demonstrators and journalists in Kyiv and other parts of the country. President Yanukovych and the Government of Ukraine must immediately cease the use of force to intimidate citizens and the media and suppress civil discourse. The Ukrainian people have the fundamental right to peaceably assemble and express their opinions on the future of their country – and it is the responsibility of the Government of Ukraine to respect and protect these universal rights and freedoms. We continue to support the Ukrainian people’s aspirations for democratic reform and European integration. We also remain committed to our belief that signing an Association Agreement with the European Union provides Ukraine the best opportunity to achieve prosperity, liberty and security for all of its citizens. ###
11.26.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today regarding the proposed guidance for tax-exempt social welfare organizations being issued today by the Treasury Department and the IRS: “The work of 501 (c) (4) organizations is vital in communities across the country and it is important that there be clear guidelines between promoting social welfare and engaging in political activity for organizations seeking this tax exemption. As we plainly saw in the investigations into the failings within the IRS tax-exempt division, the lack of clear guidance on defining and measuring political activities under current law led to mismanagement and delays in the processing of exemption applications from progressive and conservative organizations. The proposal for a ‘candidate-related political activity’ is a reasonable starting place, but the details will be important, for example in an area as critical as voter registration drives. “This is a good first step to engage the public and one clearly that must be taken so that we remove the ambiguity from the current system. This proposal is part of an overall effort that has been underway for months at the IRS to ensure that those mistakes – which included gross mismanagement of the tax-exempt division – are not repeated. After dozens of interviews and the review of hundreds of thousands of pages of documents, there is absolutely no evidence of any political motivation or outside involvement, contrary to what Republicans have alleged from the beginning.” ###
11.26.2013	Ways and Means Committee Democrats today urged Chairman Camp to turn the Committee’s focus to the economy in the remaining two weeks the House is in session this year and requested a hearing with unemployed Americans who face an immediate expiration of federal unemployment insurance on Dec. 28. Unless Congress acts, 1.3 million Americans would immediately lose all of their federal unemployment insurance, as noted in a Ways and Means Democratic report from early November. In the letter to Chairman Camp, Committee Democrats note that it has been 131 days since Ways and Means last held a full Committee hearing on an issue other than the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. “With the end of the year fast approaching, we must hear from Americans who just days after Christmas would immediately lose their unemployment insurance if Congress takes no action,” wrote all 16 Committee Democrats in the letter. A PDF copy of the letter is here. Full text is below: Chairman Dave Camp Committee on Ways and Means 1102 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Camp: We write to request that in the days remaining this year you turn the Committee’s focus to the economy, as Americans continue to recover from the deep economic crisis. To that end, an urgent economic issue confronts us through the pending expiration of the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program on Dec. 28, when 1.3 million Americans would immediately lose vital insurance as they continue to look for work. Without a continuation of the program, economic growth would take a hit to the tune of 310,000 jobs, according to the Economic Policy Institute. It has been 131 days since Ways and Means has held a full Committee hearing on an issue other than the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. With the end of the year fast approaching, we must hear from Americans who just days after Christmas would immediately lose their unemployment insurance if Congress takes no action. We invite you to work with us in setting up such a hearing, so that the human consequences of the pending expiration of the federal unemployment insurance program are fully understood. Sincerely, Ways and Means Democrats ###
11.20.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today after a Council of Economic Advisors report revealed that the Affordable Care Act has helped slow health care spending to 1.3 percent over the last three years, the lowest three-year increase ever: “Today’s report shows that health reform is having an enormous impact on reducing the growth of health care spending. Health care spending is now increasing at the slowest rate ever recorded over a three-year period. That’s good for families, business and the economy.” The report concludes that the slower growth in health care costs, thanks in part to the ACA, is likely to have substantial benefits for the nation’s economy in both the short-run and long-run, including: Providing families with greater financial and health security. The new report finds that, if just half the recent slowdown continues, health care spending a decade from now will be on average $1,400 lower per person than it would be with pre-ACA growth. Helping businesses improve their balance sheets. The slowdown in health care costs has reduced employers’ benefit costs, thereby increasing firms’ incentives to hire additional workers and maintain current benefits. Reducing long-term deficits. In large part because of the ACA’s role in slowing the growth of health care spending, CBO estimated at the time of enactment that the ACA would reduce deficits by about $100 billion during the first decade after enactment and by an average of 0.5 percent of GDP ($83 billion a year in today’s economy) over the following decade. ###
11.20.2013	House and Senate Democrats today introduced legislation to renew the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program for an additional year, preventing an immediate expiration of benefits for 1.3 million Americans during the week of Dec. 28. The legislation would effectively extend current law through 2014, providing unemployed Americans with a vital lifeline as they continue to recover from the severe economic crisis, from which the economy has yet to fully recover. The economy still has 1.5 million fewer jobs than when the recession began in 2007. To put the severity of the Great Recession into perspective, consider the fact that the previous three recessions – which began, respectively, in 1981, 1990 and 2001 – each took fewer than four years for the economy to regain the jobs lost. Yet, six years after the Great Recession began, our economy is still 1.5 million jobs shy of reaching pre-recession levels. What’s more, 36 percent of unemployed Americans have been out of work for six-plus months, much higher than any peak experienced during any recession since the Great Depression. Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) and Sen. Jack Reed (D-RI) introduced identical bills in the House and Senate. All 16 Ways and Means Democrats have co-sponsored the measure. Democrats announced the bill’s introduction during a press conference at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, where they noted that failure to act would hurt job growth to the tune of 310,000 jobs, according to the Economic Policy Institute. Ways and Means Democrats released a report earlier this month highlighting the number of Americans in each state who would lose federal unemployment insurance on Dec. 28, as well as how many additional Americans are estimated to be impacted during the first half of 2014. The report, which includes a description of how the Emergency Unemployment Compensation works, can be found here. Key points include: 1.3 million will lose UI the week of Dec. 28 Almost 1.9 million more would lose UI in the first half of 2014 as their state benefits run out Failure to extend UI would cost economy 310,000 jobs, according to EPI 36% of unemployed have been out of work for more than six months Economy still has 1.5 million fewer jobs than before Great Recession began Unemployment benefits (# of weeks) have dropped by more than a third in the last two years, according to CRS Average weekly EUC benefit has dropped $42 to $256 a week due to sequestration REP. SANDER LEVIN (D-MI): “This is a jobs issue, plain and simple. The Great Recession was deeper and longer than any economic downturn in the last 70 years and millions of Americans rely on federal unemployment insurance to stay afloat as they continue to look for work. While our economy has made enormous progress, the severity of the recession continues to ripple throughout our nation and we must maintain this vital insurance for the long-term unemployed.” SEN. JACK REED (D-RI): “Preserving unemployment insurance will help jobseekers, businesses, and states and provide a major economic boost to the national economy as well. Maintaining UI is part of a broad range of pro-growth and pro-jobs policies that Congress should be enacting. We need to bridge the partisan divide and do what is best for American families and our economy: bolster consumer demand, provide some economic certainty, and preserve UI.” REP. LLOYD DOGGETT (D-TX): “Withholding benefits from those actively seeking work in a poor economic climate makes as much sense as withholding aid from those hurt by a poor climate. Cutting benefits can batter a household like a storm can tear at a house.” SEN. DEBBIE STABENOW (D-MI): "Both parties have extended emergency unemployment insurance in times of high unemployment and we need to continue that now. The economy is getting better, but unemployment is still too high and there are still three people looking for work for every one job opening. Congress needs to focus on helping businesses create jobs, not pull the rug out from families unemployed through no fault of their own." ###
11.15.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) on C-SPAN’s “Washington Journal” this morning discussed tax reform and the Affordable Care Act. Below are excerpts of Representative Levin’s remarks this morning. The entire segment is available here. Levin on Tax Reform: “First of all, on tax reform, it was clear from the beginning it had to be on a bipartisan basis. We started that way, Dave Camp and myself setting up working groups. But after that, essentially Dave Camp and the Republicans decided to go their own way and that isn’t working. You cannot have tax reform without a bipartisan effort. … I think [tax reform] is on life support for this year. Dave Camp set a goal or a target -- 25% for individuals -- 25% for corporations, without indicating how in the world he would ever get there. The Joint Tax Committee said to get down to 28% for corporate, you had to abolish all of the provisions that related to manufacturing. In terms of the individual rate, to get down to 25%, you would have had to eliminate all of the tax policies, charitable contributions, the mortgage interest deduction, state and local taxes, and the provision for tax-free state and local bonds. You would've had to abolish all of them to get down to 25%. And Dave Camp and the Republicans never said how in the world they would ever get to 25%. It was essentially a slogan and now they are having trouble making that slogan a reality. In that respect, the ball was in their court and – talking about fumbling – they fumbled.” Levin on Ways and Means Committee Partisanship: “In terms of the Ways and Means Committee and what the Republicans did I said [in a letter to Chairman Camp on Nov. 6 that] it went beyond what was the tradition within our committee. Because, for example, Dave Camp and the Republicans sent a subpoena to Marilyn Tavenner of CMS saying you must come this next week with the figures through the website and she said, the following week those will be produced. It was a misuse of subpoena power and was not within our bipartisan tradition of Ways and Means.” Levin on the Affordable Care Act: “I am voting against [the Upton Bill] because it would destroy an effort to provide health care for everybody and to make sure that premium costs go down. The health care reform bill is already helping to drive down premium increases. They used to go up more than 10%. The annual increase in cost care has been going down the last 4-5 years, in part because of health care reform. For everybody, particularly those who have no insurance, health care reform is essential. … I think the President’s action yesterday was necessary. The ball had been fumbled and now we need to pick it up and make it work. Essentially he is saying to those insurance companies and to the insurance commissioners, let's make sure that those who have – this is about 5% of the market -- those who have policies can keep them next year. … In Michigan, over one million people did not have insurance. Also people with preexisting conditions were at risk of having their plan canceled or not renewed by the insurance company. That was not workable. There were no lifetime limits for most of these policies or annual limits. So when people hit a certain limit, they were totally on their own. The market was not working well. There was a decision to do two things. Provide Medicaid coverage for people below a certain income and also to make sure, for those above it, that there was an opportunity through the private insurance market to get affordable and adequate insurance. It was a combination of Medicaid and of using the private insurance structure to make sure millions more were insured.” ###
11.13.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after the Administration released the number of applications processed for coverage through the state- and federal-based marketplaces and Medicaid during the month of October: This is a meaningful start to address Americans’ longstanding need for better access to affordable, quality health insurance. Despite major logistical challenges and in the face of virulent opposition from Republicans in Congress, the new marketplaces have generated widespread interest among Americans, with more than 1.5 million having already applied for coverage. Now, more than ever, it is critical that the technical problems be resolved so that everyone wanting to purchase coverage through the marketplace is able to do so. The Upton legislation would lead to dramatic premium increases for the marketplace in 2015 and beyond and repeal the health law’s fundamental protections, returning us to an era where insurers can discriminate on the basis of preexisting conditions.” ###
11.07.2013	MyCare Health Center, a community health center based in Mount Clemens has received a $866,667 grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to expand access to health care, thanks to the Affordable Care Act. The grant is part of $9.2 million in grants being awarded in Michigan. Nationwide, 236 health center programs will receive approximately $150 million in grant awards to serve more than 1.25 million additional patients. “MyCare Health Center has a distinguished history of providing innovative and comprehensive community-based health care services to Macomb County,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “With this grant, MyCare will be able to expand its reach to provide quality, essential health services to residents of Macomb County, regardless of their ability to pay.” The Health Center New Access Points were established in the Affordable Care Act and announced today by HHS Secretary Sebelius. The purpose of the Health Center Program New Access Point is to improve the health of the Nation’s underserved communities and vulnerable populations by increasing access to comprehensive, culturally competent, quality primary health care services. MyCare Health Center plays an important role in the health care for residents of Macomb County. MyCare has assumed the administration of two critical programs previously administered by Macomb County -- a Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening Program and a Senior Counseling Program Through the Affordable Care Act’s commitment to expand access to high quality health care for all Americans, these grants will be used by the community health centers to support establishment of new full-time service delivery sites. Today, nationwide approximately 1,200 health centers operate more than 9,000 service delivery sites that provide care to over 21 million patients in every state. Since the beginning of 2009, health centers have added 4 million patients and more than 35,000 new full-time positions. ###
11.07.2013	Ways and Means Committee Democrats today released a report on Emergency Unemployment Compensation ahead of the pending year-end expiration of the federal program that highlights how 1.3 million Americans will immediately be cut off from unemployment insurance the week of Dec. 28 if Congress does not reauthorize the program. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation program was first authorized in 2008. It has been reauthorized on several occasions since then, most recently as part of the Jan. 1, 2013 fiscal cliff agreement, with the number of weeks of federal benefits substantially reduced over the last two years. The report includes both a state-by-state analysis of the number of people who will lose their unemployment benefits the week of Dec. 28 if the EUC program is not extended and a state-by-state analysis of the reduction in the number of weeks of federal unemployment benefits that has occurred over the last two years. Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) believes it is vitally important to renew the program given that the economy is still recovering from the Great Recession, with more than a third of unemployed Americans out of work for longer than six months. “Without prompt action by Congress, well over a million Americans will have their entire unemployment compensation immediately eliminated in the midst of the holiday season and close to another two million will lose that federal unemployment insurance over the first half of next year,” said Ranking Member Sander Levin. “This will not only hurt those families, but also our entire economy, which is already suffering from the government shutdown and the arbitrary across-the-board sequester cuts.” The report can be found here. Key summary points include: 1.3 million will lose UI the week of Dec. 28 Almost 1.9 million more would lose UI in the first half of 2014 as their state benefits run out Failure to extend UI would cost economy 310,000 jobs, according to EPI 37% of unemployed have been out of work for more than six months Economy still has 2 million fewer jobs than before Great Recession began Unemployment benefits (# of weeks) have dropped by more than a third in the last two years, according to CRS Average weekly EUC benefit has dropped $42 to $256 a week due to sequestration ###
11.06.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today sent a letter to Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) criticizing Committee Republicans’ sharp partisan turn in recent months, highlighted by the fact that they have “delayed – and in some cases completely abandoned – action on many issues of vital importance to American families and our economy while pressing ahead with a political agenda to undermine President Obama’s second term.” The letter comes after Chairman Camp sent a politically motivated subpoena to CMS Administrator Marilyn Tavenner and letter to IRS Acting Commissioner Daniel Werfel within the last 24 hours over the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. As Ranking Member Levin notes in the letter, Committee Republicans within the last six months have held only two full committee hearings on issues other than the Affordable Care Act and the IRS’ screening of tax-exempt organizations. What’s more, the Committee has marked up just two pieces of legislation this year, the last being in April on a bill to prepare for a default by prioritizing payments of the Treasury Department. Dear Chairman Camp: I am deeply troubled by the partisan turn this Committee has taken in recent months, having delayed – and in some cases completely abandoned – action on many issues of vital importance to American families and our economy while pressing ahead with a political agenda to undermine President Obama’s second term. The highly unprecedented use of the Committee’s subpoena power to compel information you have been told will be provided next week, and the subpoena and letter you have sent to CMS Administrator Tavenner and IRS Acting Commissioner Werfel within the last 24 hours are illustrative of the partisan and unproductive turn of the Committee’s agenda. We serve on a Committee with a storied history of grappling with and addressing the premier issues of the day. I have been privileged to work on a bipartisan basis on many of those issues, including on trade and welfare reform. Our Committee has never served as a tool for opposition research. But the selective release of IRS information during the tax-exempt organization investigation, the use of subpoena power in the manner you have undertaken this week, and the request made of the IRS today are clearly efforts to simply gather data to continue your assault on the Affordable Care Act. They are beneath the Ways and Means Committee. One does not need to be reminded that we are just one month into the launch of the new health insurance marketplaces. Your efforts to date illustrate that you have no interest in working to make sure quality, affordable health insurance is available to all Americans, but rather to dismantle the law and prevent people from accessing insurance as is their right under the law. Within the last six months, you have held but two full committee hearings on issues other than the Affordable Care Act and the IRS’ screening of tax-exempt organizations. The Committee has marked up two pieces of legislation this year, the last being in April on a bill to prepare for a default by prioritizing payments of the Treasury Department. Missing, however, has been any action to spur job growth to assist American families as they continue to recover from the Great Recession. And while Democrats on the Committee have urged a bipartisan effort to craft comprehensive tax reform, Republicans have chosen a closed-door approach centered on lowering the top tax rate by more than a third, costing $3.8 trillion. Republicans spent the first half of October shutting down the government and threatening not to raise the debt ceiling, starving the economy of any sense of certainty for a full 16 days. Even after Republicans relented, allowing the government to reopen, you and others in the Majority have maintained a complete focus on undermining the Affordable Care Act. That obsession has come at the detriment of so many other important issues that should be the focus of this historic committee. Sincerely, Sander Levin To view the original letter
10.30.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to the Republican debt ceiling disapproval resolution, which passed this afternoon with nearly unanimous Republican support: The week before last, 87 House Republicans joined 198 House Democrats to pull this nation back from the brink of a default that would have magnified the economic damage inflicted by the Republican shut down of the Federal Government. I can understand that those who voted no on October 16 would vote for this resolution in order to be consistent, though I urge -- as a matter of policy -- that they are consistently wrong. What is hard to understand is how one who voted yes on October 16 to avoid a default would now vote yes on this bill that would bring about a default if it succeeded. So they are saying that the serious impairment of our nation’s full faith and credit, which economists warned would plunge us back into recession, was a bad idea on a Wednesday two weeks ago, but doing so is a good idea on a Wednesday two weeks later. The same person would be voting one way -- and then soon thereafter the opposite way. Against default then, for default now. Earlier this month, after the Republicans took us to the brink of default, Senate Minority Leader McConnell said, “There’s no education in the second kick of a mule.” And he continued “… we’re not going to do this again in connection with the debt ceiling or with a government shutdown.” But now House Republicans appear to be doing just that. Every time the Republicans “fight another day” to not pay America’s bills, the American economy pays the price. Republicans took us to the brink of default earlier this month, the Council of Economic Advisors estimates we lost 120,000 jobs that would have been created in October. Private forecasters (JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Standard and Poor’s) estimate that the recent crisis slowed fourth quarter GDP growth by between 0.2 and 0.6 percentage point. ###
10.30.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement at the first Farm Bill conference committee meeting: “I think this provides a rare bipartisan opportunity. The provisions within our domain on upland cotton and sugar program, we leave to your good judgment, as long as you maintain the necessary provisions that we’re obliged to under our international responsibilities. So if I might, I just want to take a minute to speak more personally. Our family owns some agricultural acreage. Just a little bit. There are some apple trees that are always filled with worms. We have a raspberry patch that went bad and picked a few asparagus that they call in this agricultural area, spear grass. So I'm not an expert, to put it mildly. “I do want to say something, though, personally about SNAP. There are 48,000 people in our district who rely on nutrition assistance. When I have talked to teachers, and these are in suburban school districts, in many cases they have a drawer in their classroom filled with food because children come to school hungry. One of the larger food banks is in the district I represent and 17% of the population they serve face food insecurity and 70% of them do not utilize SNAP. So there is a severe nutrition challenge to millions of families in this country. As you all know, the average amount available under is $4.50 a day. That's the average. And with some other colleagues in the House, I took the challenge and lived on the $4.50 a day for a week. And I just urge that everybody put themselves in the shoes of these families. And I finish with this, I remember going to a pantry in a parish that I represent and talking to the families there, and these are families in need. Thank you for hearing me.” ###
10.29.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding this morning’s Ways and Means Committee hearing on healthcare.gov: “For more than three years since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law, Republicans have had one goal in mind: repeal the law, even if it means shutting down the government and threatening to default on the full faith and credit of the U.S. That goal was vividly illustrated today when Rep. Dave Reichert said about the Affordable Care Act: ‘The chainsaw needs to come out.’ In fact, the Republican chainsaw has been out for three-plus years. Today’s hearing wasn’t about helping to make the Affordable Care Act work. It was about continuing a three-year effort to destroy it.” ###
10.29.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the passing of former Congressman Ike Skelton: “Our nation’s servicemen and women lost a devoted friend on Monday with the passing of Ike Skelton. Over a congressional career that spanned more than three decades, he represented his Missouri District in the House of Representatives, but more importantly he represented every American wearing a military uniform in the service of their country. Ike Skelton was a thoroughly decent man and one of our nation’s foremost experts on defense policy. He will be sorely missed.” ###
10.29.2013	Below is the full story of Mr. James Chambers, who Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin referenced in his questions of CMS Administrator Tavenner at this morning’s Committee Hearing. Mr. Chambers is a Republican from Michigan who spoke with Rep. Levin’s office yesterday after signing up for coverage in the federal marketplace and saving him and his wife $720 a month. LEVIN STATEMENT: Just yesterday, a member of my staff spoke with Mr. James Chambers, a resident of Onondaga, Michigan, about his experience with healthcare.gov. Mr. Chambers is a retired Information Technology worker. He’s bought insurance on the individual market since 2000. He has a perspective I think we should all keep in mind. Mr. Chambers and his wife have a Blue Cross plan that costs almost $800 a month. It has a reasonable deductible -- $1,000 per year – but the plan only covers hospitalization. No doctor visits, no prescription drugs. Just hospital services. In September, Mr. Chambers received a notice from Blue Cross saying his insurance plan would no longer be offered in 2014. It encouraged him to talk with them about other plans that Blue Cross is offering on the marketplace. Like millions of Americans, Mr. Chambers experienced challenges when he went to healthcare.gov on Oct. 1. As he said, he’s “retired and tenacious.” He sought assistance from the local navigator, spoke with Blue Cross, and continued to access the website until it worked. What he found on the marketplace was – in his words – “not Obamacare, not government insurance, but instead it was government putting private plans in one place with subsidies for people who qualify.” He told us: “Labeling it government insurance is really wrong.” He said the plans he reviewed had “a lot of good coverage for preventative care and a lot of advantages for people to stay healthy.” He ended up finding a Blue Cross Silver HMO plan that – with tax credits – will cost $77 a month, a $720 savings. And while he has some frustration with the website, he said: “Problems with a website are not the end of the world – it has to be corrected and fixed. It’s not about what you can’t do – it’s what CAN we do?” I’ll end with this final quote from Mr. Chambers – something I think we should all take to heart. He said the Affordable Care Act “may not be perfect, but it’s something that’s been desperately needed by the public for many, many years. I’m a Republican, and the reality is that this is bigger than politics. I’m enthusiastic the plan is going to benefit people who have had no hope.” ###
10.29.2013	We start this hearing facing a basic reality: Democrats want to make the Affordable Care Act work. Congressional Republicans don't. That reality has been reflected in 40-plus efforts by Republicans to repeal, dismantle or defund the Affordable Care Act. That reality was reflected in their zeal shutting down the government and jeopardizing the full faith and credit of our nation, damaging our nation's global standing and leading to enduring harm, costing our economy $24 billion, tens of thousands of jobs, and a dramatic drop in consumer confidence. Now, having still failed to derail the Affordable Care Act, the Republican focus of attack has shifted. The new front relates to healthcare.gov. There very clearly are challenges to implementing new, pioneering access to health care. Consider these headlines: “Problems Plague Rollout,” NPR reported. “Plagued by Delays and Confusion over Coverage,” said the San Francisco Chronicle. These headlines are not about the Affordable Care Act, as you can see from these slides. They are from 2005, as Medicare Part D was launched. That year, in dramatic contrast to the Republican conduct to date, Democrats who had opposed that law worked to make it a success, working with Republicans who had passed that law to address many problems and most importantly with our constituents to ensure they could sign up. The reality is that the Affordable Care Act, which Republicans are failing to work on with Democrats, is working quite effectively in states running the marketplaces. In Kentucky, more than 26,000 people have enrolled for coverage. In New York, more 37,000 have signed up. And in Washington State, more than 35,000 people had enrolled as of a week ago. The irony is that Republicans have erected hurdles to states’ throughout the nation taking responsibility for implementing the law. The web site for the federal insurance marketplace must be fixed and it is being fixed. Phil Sherburne of Salt Lake City, Utah, is among those who have enrolled. A self-employed father of three, he’s been uninsured for years, paying cash for doctor visits and the occasional trip to the emergency room, he told his local newspaper. Once he got onto the marketplace web site, he compared 38 plans and got coverage for his family for $123 a month. “Once they get the bugs worked out,” he said, “it will work well and bring peace of mind to a lot of people.” He added: “I’m thrilled to have coverage, period.” Prior to this year, what awaited Mr. Sherburne and the tens of millions of other Americans who don’t get health insurance through their employer – but rather have had to sign up on their own – was a maze of invasive, personal medical history questions within applications that seemed to never end. When individuals did get through the process, too often a pre-existing condition -- no matter how minor -- was used to deny coverage, to charge exorbitantly high premiums or to exclude needed benefits. Thankfully, these days are behind us. This hearing provides a chance for every member of this Committee to proceed in a constructive – not destructive – manner. For Administrator Tavenner to lay out how the web site is being fixed, as it must be. And for everyone on this committee to join in the effort to make available – not to prevent access to – quality, affordable coverage for every American. ###
10.25.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) joined with his fellow Co-Chairs of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus, Representatives Jim Gerlach (R-PA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, Representative Bill Keating (D-MA), in issuing the following statement today regarding the Association Agreement between the EU and Ukraine: As long-time advocates for the democratization and economic liberalization of Ukraine, we welcome the progress that has been made to date and encourage Ukraine’s continued efforts in the coming weeks to realize the final steps necessary to enter into an Association Agreement with the European Union (EU) at the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius this November. By strengthening Ukraine’s bilateral relationship with the EU, we are confident that through greater economic integration and political cooperation, Ukraine will be able to achieve a stronger relationship with current EU Member States, as well as transatlantic partners, such as the United States, through a shared respect for democratic principles, rule of law, good governance, human rights, and essential freedoms. As such, we believe that the signing of an Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU will continue to serve as a catalyst for democratic and human rights reforms, enhanced economic development, and improved welfare for all Ukrainians. Over the last year, we have observed with interest Ukraine’s efforts to meet the EU’s conditions for this agreement, and as the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius draws near, we wish to encourage all parties to continue to cooperate and work swiftly to complete all remaining reforms, in law and in practice. Recognizing that key progress has been made in certain areas, including the enactment of a new criminal procedure code, we support further tangible action by Ukraine to address critical issues and incorporate the reforms necessary to improve its electoral system, governing institutions, and its system of justice. In particular, we believe that a crucial step towards such reform would be the pardon and release of former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko under mutually acceptable terms. The signing of an Association Agreement with the EU marks a significant opportunity for Ukraine to fulfill its commitments to democracy and human rights and is in the strategic interests of Ukraine, the EU, and the United States. We offer our support and encouragement to Ukraine in the coming weeks as it takes the final steps towards a stronger and enhanced relationship with the EU. ###
10.22.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after the IRS announced that the 2014 tax filing season will be delayed by one to two weeks because of the government shutdown: “This is yet another unfortunate effect of a shutdown that Republicans should have never caused. The entirety of the shutdown’s harmful impact won’t be known for months, if not longer. But what is already clear is that it has cost our economy tens of billions of dollars and tens of thousands of jobs. This tax-filing delay just adds insult to injury for Americans hoping to get a jump start on their tax refunds in January.” ###
10.22.2013	U.S. Reps. Sander Levin and John Dingell have teamed up to fight a proposed 26 percent reduction in federal funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). In a letter to the Chairs and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, the two Michigan lawmakers and 22 other House members called for $300 million in 2014 for the GLRI, a four-year-old effort to protect and restore the Great Lakes ecosystem. A PDF copy of the letter is available here. “The Great Lakes are a unique and invaluable national treasure that must be protected and restored,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter to the Appropriations Committees. “We understand that resources are tight this year, but we believe protection of the Great Lakes must remain a priority.” The GLRI provides funding to address vital environmental issues in the Great Lakes, such as cleaning up contaminated sediments, reducing polluted runoff, mitigating habitat loss, and addressing invasive species such as the Asian carp. The program has invested over $1.3 billion in Great Lakes restoration over the last four years. However, years of budget cuts have resulted in a steady erosion of resources available for Great Lakes restoration activities. When the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative was started in 2010, the funding level was set at $475 million. GLRI funding dropped to $300 million for 2011 and 2012. In 2013, Great Lakes funding was reduced still further, to $285 million, due to budget sequestration cuts. Earlier this year, as the House Appropriations Committee began writing the annual funding bill for Environmental Protection Agency programs for 2014, the initial draft of the legislation proposed slashing GLRI to $60 million, a funding level that would all but end the restoration effort in the Lakes. Some of the GLRI money was later restored, raising GLRI program funding to $210 million, but that is still a $75 million funding cut. The draft Senate EPA funding bill calls for $300 million for GLRI, and that is the amount Levin and Dingell are urging House lawmakers to accept. Congress is expected to finalize the program’s budget over the next several months. “We are raising this issue now because we are concerned that the proposed House budget shortchanges the Great Lakes,” said Rep. Levin. “A $75 million cut in Great Lakes restoration funding is simply not acceptable.” “As the co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force and a lifelong outdoorsman who has played a significant role in passing legislation to clean up the Great Lakes, I hope that Congress will continue the successful efforts to maintain the work that has already been done,” said Rep. Dingell. “Michigan is blessed with a vast and marvelous natural resource in these lakes—and we need to make sure that continues to be so.” ####
10.18.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after learning of the passing of former House Speaker Tom Foley, with whom Rep. Levin served for 12 years: “Tom Foley was a champion of civility among public officials. He helped to break down often rigid House practices and procedures, opening up opportunities sooner for us elected to serve with him. All privileged to serve in Congress will be further indebted to Tom Foley, as will the entire nation, if we can return to the warmth and civility in public discourse that Tom Foley personified in his lengthy and distinguished career.” ####
10.16.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement today regarding the agreement to reopen the government and avoid a potentially devastating default on our debt obligations: “The lesson that must be learned from the last two weeks is that taking the nation and its economy hostage to pursue a reckless ideological agenda is irresponsible and ultimately an ill-fated legislative strategy. The shutdown cost our economy $24 billion, according to S&P, and it blemished our standing globally as a secure economic partner. It disrupted federal programs important for so many Americans. “The public overwhelmingly rejected House Republicans’ decision to shut down the government and threaten not to pay our bills, which was done in an effort to carry out their obsession with dismantling the Affordable Care Act. This kind of imbalanced approach harms our effort to address the full range of challenges facing our nation. This must not happen again.” ####
10.14.2013	Building on Rep. Levin's efforts to reopen the government, Rep. Levin today called for protecting American families from the cost of a dangerous Republican default by taking long-term action on the debt limit. The need for action is highlighted by a new analysis by Ways and Means Committee Democrats that shows the consequences families in Michigan would face under a Republican default. Republican members of Congress have increasingly voiced skepticism that failing to raise the debt ceiling would be harmful for the American economy, despite warnings from economists and financial leaders throughout the world as the U.S. draws closer to the date a default might occur. The new analysis shows the damaging consequences of default on mortgage rates, retirement savings, Social Security, veterans’ disability and pensions, student loans and Medicare. A debt limit increase simply allows Treasury to pay the bills for spending Congress has already approved and does not add one cent to the debt. Republicans must stop holding hostage the full faith and credit of the United States. “Defaulting would put an enormous financial strain on American families, from higher interest rates for mortgages and credit cards to lost retirement savings to delayed Social Security payments, particularly here in Michigan,” said Rep. Levin “Economists of all political stripes are warning about the potential consequences of default. With just days left, it is time for Republicans to start taking that prospect seriously and stop playing political games with the full faith and credit of the United States and the livelihoods of American families.” The new analysis shows that mortgage rates could rise dramatically during a default, pushing up overall home loan costs. Retirement savings are expected to fall significantly, potentially costing the average person in Michigan a drop of $15,000 in 401(k) assets and almost $23,000 in IRA assets just as they did in July and August 2011, when Republicans pushed the U.S. to the brink of default. Over 2 million Social Security recipients in Michigan may not get their monthly checks and over 10,000 disabled veterans may not get their pensions as the Treasury Department is unable to borrow. Student loans will cost significantly more. And doctors and hospitals may not get paid for treating patients with Medicare. Michigan's full state analysis is available here
10.12.2013	U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI) today signed a petition that would force a vote on a continuing resolution to fund the government without any strings attached, ending the government shutdown that is now in its 12th day. The petition – formally known as a “discharge petition” – would compel Speaker Boehner to bring a government funding bill to the floor if 218 members of Congress were to sign it. All 200 Democrats and more than 20 Republicans have said publicly that they would support a clean government funding bill, without provisions tied to it that would dismantle the Affordable Care Act. “The government shutdown is having hugely harmful consequences throughout our state and nation,” said U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “There is no reason why the Republican Speaker of the House cannot put a bill on the floor to fund the entire government that would pass immediately. It is time for House Republicans to stop threatening our economy over their obsession with the Affordable Care Act and reopen the government.” The government shutdown has hurt the middle class and our economy, and will get worse as it continues. Costing taxpayers up to $300 million a day, it has stopped critical loans to small businesses and slowed the processing of veterans disability claims. The shutdown has prevented NIH from taking new patients and halted life-saving medical research and stalled much-needed housing loans for American families. The discharge petition for H. Res. 372 would allow an up or down vote on a clean continuing resolution, providing funding through November 15 at a compromise level requested by Speaker Boehner. This discharge petition only needs a majority of House members to sign on and does not require any action by the Republican leadership. Discharge petitions have been proven successful in the past in bringing up legislation for consideration. According to a Congressional Research Service study, seven discharge petitions have received 218 signatures over the last 30 years. And in all seven cases, the majority party agreed to bring the measure to the House floor. 12 measures were allowed to be brought to the House floor even before the discharge petition reached the full 218 signatures. You can see which Members of Congress have signed onto the discharge petition in real time by visiting the House Clerk’s office. ####
10.01.2013	U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement after the marketplaces set up through the Affordable Care Act opened for enrollment today: "Sixty-eight years ago next month, President Harry Truman proposed a national health insurance plan, saying: ‘We should resolve now that the health of this nation is a national concern; that financial barriers in the way of attaining health shall be removed; that the health of all its citizens deserves the help of all the Nation.’ “At long last, health care for all of America is now here and it is here to stay.” ####
09.30.2013	U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement tonight as House Republicans appeared poised to shut down the government rather than bring a clean government funding resolution to the floor. “Speaker Boehner faced a challenge: bring up the Senate bill to fund the government so the entire House could work its will or succumb to pressure from the far right of his own party who have threatened to take this nation over the cliff in blind rage fed by their rigid ideology. The Republican Speaker has chosen to take the nation over the cliff. The harm will hit every corner of our nation, from the civilians helping to run the Pentagon to the patients seeking care at the National Institutes of Health to the hundreds of thousands of families who receive federal child care assistance.” ####
09.30.2013	Regrettably, House Republicans refuse to pass a budget to keep the federal government operating without attaching to it language to prevent individuals from getting health insurance through the Affordable Care Act and to prevent that law from being implemented. If a government funding bill is not approved by Congress and signed by the President by midnight, Monday, Sept. 30, the government will close, except for essential services. I wanted to provide you with background and some basic facts about what services would and would not be affected in a federal government shutdown. My staff will be available to assist you so please call on us at 586-498-7122. Impact of Federal Government Shutdown - Questions and Answers What federal services are affected by a shutdown? Non-essential programs and services of the federal government will be suspended. Essential government services needed to protect life and property – such as national security, border patrol, and air traffic control – would continue. Most government agencies would be required to reduce their operations for the duration of a shutdown. Will Social Security recipients continue to receive their checks during a shutdown? Yes. Current beneficiaries will continue to receive benefits. Local Social Security offices will remain open and maintain normal business hours but services will be limited. New claims for benefits might be delayed. What about Medicare benefits? Current participants in Medicare should not notice any disruption. Payments to doctors and hospitals could be delayed if the shutdown were prolonged. Will the Affordable Care Act be open for enrollment? Yes. On October 1st, individuals can learn more about health care options and begin the enrollment process at healthcare.gov What about Unemployment Insurance benefits? In the short-term, the state has enough resources from the Federal government to continue paying the federal extended unemployment benefits. If the shutdown continues, these funds could be impacted. Will Veterans hospitals close? Health care services for veterans will remain operating. Will the Post Office stay open? The Postal Service is self-funded. Mail service is not affected by a federal shutdown. Will Veterans benefits be impacted? Veterans will continue to receive current benefits. Veterans appealing the denial of benefits to the Board of Veterans Appeals would be delayed as the Board would shut down. Department of Veterans Affairs services such as recruiting and hiring will be suspended. The Veterans Benefits Administration would be unable to process education and vocational rehabilitation benefits. Veterans seeking there service records from the National Personal Records Center (NPRC) may experience delays, as the NPRC is only processing emergency cases during the shutdown. Will air travel be affected? Air traffic control is considered an essential service and would operate normally during a shutdown. Will the IRS continue to collect taxes? Yes. All payments will be processed. For anyone who requested an extension of their 2012 taxes, the deadline to file a tax return remains October 15, 2013. People with appointments related to examinations (audits), collections, Appeals or Taxpayer Advocate cases should assume their meetings are cancelled. IRS personnel would reschedule those meetings at a later date. What if I need a visa or passport? The Detroit Passport Agency will remain open with normal business hours and services. The USCIS Detroit office will be open for business and people are encouraged to keep all appointments that are scheduled at the office. In addition, CBP- Customs and Border Patrol and TSA- Transport Security Administration will remain open. Will the U.S. Capitol be open for public tours? No. The U.S. Capitol Visitor Center will be closed beginning October 1 and all tours will be suspended. You may call 202.226.8000 for updated tour information. Will national parks stay open? National parks and federal monuments and museums around the country would be closed. How will businesses be affected? E-Verify, the Internet-based system that allows businesses to determine the eligibility of their employees to work in the United States, is unavailable due to the government shutdown. As a result, companies will be unable to enroll in E-Verify, verify employment eligibility of potential employees, and cannot view or take action on any case. I work for the federal government. How am I impacted? In the last federal shutdown in 1995, about 800,000 government workers were furloughed. Only “exempt” employees (generally employees who perform emergency work involving the safety of human life or the protection of property) will report to work during a government shutdown. Each Agency will communicate with its employees whether they are exempt or non-exempt. Additional information is also available through the Office of Personnel Management’s website. https://www.opm.gov/ How will local Department of Defense employees be impacted? At the U.S. Army’s TACOM facility in Warren, furlough notices were handed out Tuesday and it is expected to affect up to half of the facility that employs 7,500 civilian workers according to the garrison public affairs officer at TACOM. In addition, about 650 civilians and military technicians employed by the 127th Wing at Selfridge Air National Guard Base were sent home after operations were shut down this morning. Minimum personnel remain on duty, such as the fire department, security and air traffic control. The weekend drill, which was to take place Saturday and Sunday, has been canceled. Where can I get more information? Staff in our offices will be limited along with our ability to work with federal agencies on your behalf. Please call my District office at 586-498-7122. Related Websites & Articles U.S. Office of Personnel Management - "Guidance and Information on Furlough" Contingency plans for agencies across the Federal Government 66 questions and answers about the government shutdown
09.25.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) released the following statement on the data from HHS showing that average Marketplace premiums are even lower rates than those predicted by the Congressional Budget Office: Facts will win out over GOP distortions about Obamacare and efforts to prevent people from signing up for insurance. Republicans must drop their ideological drive to shut down the government or default on the nation’s debt simply because they want to deny hard-working families affordable health care. With average premiums lower than projected and competition in every market, Obamacare is ready to deliver for the American people.” ###
09.25.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement after Treasury Secretary Lew informed Congress today that the United States will hit the limit of its borrowing authority no later than Oct. 17: We have been repeatedly warned that we are have barely three weeks to prevent an unprecedented default that would send shock waves through our economy. Yet Republicans continue to push us to the brink, just as they did two years ago, when their recklessness led to an historic credit ratings downgrade, sent the stock market reeling and stalled job growth. Every day that congressional Republicans walk away from their responsibility to govern, they put more American families at risk.” ###
09.24.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the below statement today after 60 senators sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Lew and U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman urging that new rules against currency manipulation be included in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement. The Senate letter comes after 230 House members in June sent a similar letter to the president insisting new rules against currency manipulation be included in the TPP negotiations. During a July speech, Ranking Member Levin laid out a currency proposal for the TPP negotiations. Separately, in March, he introduced currency manipulation legislation along with 100 co-sponsors. “Majorities in both the U.S. House and Senate have now sent a clear message that any agreement on TPP to eliminate import duties must effectively prevent participating countries from manipulating their currencies,” said Ranking Member Levin. “As I have clearly stated, there is no point in negotiating a TPP agreement to eliminate import duties if countries are allowed to effectively reimpose those duties by manipulating their currencies. We must continue to oppose an unfair competitive advantage from our trading partners, through legislation and trade agreements, with the ultimate goal of an enforceable global agreement on currency.” BACKGROUND The IMF currently has clear rules on currency manipulation but no effective enforcement mechanism. The WTO has a strong enforcement mechanism but not everyone agrees on what the WTO currency rules mean. In the TPP negotiations, the Administration must insist that the agreement combine clear rules -- based on existing guidelines that all countries have already accepted through the IMF – with strong enforcement. ###
09.23.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin, who has been working with Macomb Community College on their grant application, released the following statement after the Department of Labor announced the recipients of the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Community College grant. “MCC is a leader in worker training, and this grant will further leverage their expertise in the vital advanced manufacturing sector,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “When Labor Secretary Perez called me with the news this morning I invited him to Macomb to see all the effective work that is being done there.” Background on the Grant The Department of Labor announced $474.5 million in grants to community colleges and universities around the country for the development and expansion of innovative training programs. The grants are part of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Grant Program, which promote skills development and employment opportunities in fields such as advanced manufacturing, transportation and health care, as well as science, technology, engineering and math careers through partnerships between training providers and local employers. Macomb Community College in Warren will receive $9.6 million as the lead college in a consortium of 8 institutions in Michigan. A full list of colleges and funding levels for this project is below. College City State Amount Bay de Noc Community College Escanaba MI $ 1,473,249 Grand Rapids Community College Grand Rapids MI $ 4,128,382 Kellogg Community College Battle Creek MI $ 2,655,476 Lake Michigan Community College Benton Harbor MI $ 1,217,576 Lansing Community College Lansing MI $ 2,114,000 Macomb Community College Warren MI $ 9,615,803 Mott Community College Flint MI $ 2,688,000 Schoolcraft College Livonia MI $ 1,107,377 In a July 2013 letter to Acting Assistant Secretary of Labor Eric Seleznow supporting the grant application, Rep. Levin wrote the following: “I enthusiastically support the application submitted by Macomb Community College (MCC) on behalf of the Michigan Coalition for Advanced Manufacturing (M-CAM) for a Trade Adjustment Assistance for Community College and Career Training (TAACCCT) grant. I draw your attention to the fact that within the M-CAM service area the Department of Labor has certified nearly 300 local cases under the TAA program and over 58,000 TAA impacted workers. M-CAM is a vital advanced manufacturing initiative for the future of our State that will “feature an advanced manufacturing competency model that promotes job readiness skills, basic skill development, pathways to certificates/degrees, employer involvement, online/hybrid courses, education plans, prior learning assessments, and career services. Participants enter the program at multiple points based on skills and education needs. Member colleges plan to create 13 new industry-focused credentials and upgrade/modify 63 certificate and degree programs. Importantly, M-CAM is supported by a broad range of private sector, employer partners, government and public workforce agencies and diverse set of foundations and non-profits.” Big job-training program headed for MCC September 23, 2013Macomb Daily| Chad Selweski Good-paying jobs in an array of manufacturing fields will be generated in Macomb County thanks to the $9.6 million job-training grant received last week by Macomb Community College from the U.S. Department of Labor. A bipartisan group of officials gathered in Warren on Monday to celebrate the good news, predicting that the infusion of federal dollars will result in thousands of displaced workers gaining new careers in basics like welding and fabrication, or in high-tech computer numerical control (CNC) machining. U.S. Rep. Sander Levin, who initiated the federal training program for those who lost a manufacturing job due to international trade policies, said the “right approach” is to establish a state/federal role to prepare American workers for the new blue-collar world. “This is not just a grant, this is a stepping stone … to make sure our workers have a job,” said U.S. Rep. Candice Miller, a Harrison Township Republican. “Macomb County did not attempt to reinvent itself after a painful economic transition. We stuck with our heritage and doubled-down on manufacturing.” The Labor Department awarded $25 million to the MCC-led Michigan Coalition for Advanced Manufacturing, or M-CAM, which consists of eight community colleges stretching from Flint to Lansing to Benton Harbor to Grand Rapids and east to Battle Creek and southeast Michigan. While no estimates are offered regarding the number of unemployed or underemployed workers who will benefit, the M-CAM service area is comprised of 58,000 people adversely affected by jobs going overseas. The eight colleges will use to the funds to create 13 new “industry-focused” academic credentials and upgrade or modify 63 certificate and degree programs. MCC President Jim Jacobs, a veteran economist, earned repeated praise at Monday’s event for pursuing innovations that allow students to gain training that matches the needs of the private sector. “No major, advanced country can prosper without a strong manufacturing base,” said Jacobs, addressing a small crowd at the college’s Michigan Technical Education Center. “It’s fundamental to the growth and success of this country.” In addition to CNC machining, welding and fabrication, some job-training participants will learn about the broad-based technical aspects of a modern factory floor – electronics, mechanics, pneumatics, hydraulics and computer programs – that will pave the way for a job as a supervisory technician or an overall “fix-it” employee. The new grant marks the third round of federal job-training funding for MCC and the M-CAM group, with the most recent allocation a $5 million award for Macomb with an emphasis on defense industry jobs. “Without Macomb County,” Levin said, “there is a good chance -- a very good chance -- that there would not be a (college consortium).” To view the original article ####
09.23.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after Lois Lerner resigned from the Internal Revenue Service. Lerner’s resignation was received this morning after the IRS’ internal Accountability Review Board completed its review and was set to propose Lerner’s removal from the IRS on the basis of “neglect of duties�? during Lerner’s tenure as the Director of the Exempt Organization Division of IRS. This “mismanagement�? is consistent with the findings of the TIGTA report, which was the reason Ranking Member Levin immediately called for Lerner to be relieved of her duties. However, there were no findings by the Accountability Review Board of political bias or willful misconduct. “Lois Lerner is being held responsible for her gross mismanagement of the IRS tax-exempt division, which led to improper handling of applications for tax-exempt status, whether conservative and progressive. As has been the case in all aspects of the current IRS investigation, the IRS internal Review Board found no evidence of political bias in her neglect of duties. The basic overreaching premise of the Republicans that the IRS had an ‘enemies list’ and was being influenced from the outside has been proven wrong again, as it has again and again. Just as the IRS has to move with all deliberate speed to restore the public trust, so too must the Republicans by not distorting the investigation and by acknowledging the improvements.�? ###
09.20.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement after House Republicans took the first step toward a government shutdown by passing a continuing resolution that would also defund the Affordable Care Act: House Republicans are charting a course toward chaos, led by their obsession with keeping big health insurers in charge of Americans’ health care. They have closed their eyes to reality and shut their ears even to many of their staunchest allies – including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce – who have urged them not plunge our nation into the abyss. Their blind ideology now threatens the economic well-being of all Americans.” ###
09.19.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement after the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration opened an investigation into the leak of sensitive taxpayer information to USA Today. The newspaper published a story Wednesday that included the full unredacted contents of an IRS list of pending applications for tax-exempt status. The published list contained confidential taxpayer information and was included in the production of documents to Congress protected by 6103 authority, which makes it illegal to publicly disclose taxpayer information. The IRS also provided congressional committees a redacted version of the list – linked here – that blacked out almost all of the information because it was viewed as sensitive taxpayer information. For a full understanding of the 6103 rules and penalties, see the Joint Committee on Taxation analyses – JCS-1-00 Volumes 1, 2 and 3 – linked here. LEVIN: “The release of confidential, sensitive taxpayer information must be prosecuted with the full force of the law and I expect the Treasury Inspector General to complete a thorough investigation of this leak. A leak of this magnitude under any circumstance is outrageous. This occurred as there continues to be a very disturbing effort by some to distort the facts for partisan political purposes.” ###
09.19.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), and respective Health Subcommittee Ranking Members Jim McDermott (D-WA) and Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ) today sent the following “Dear Colleague” letter to members of the Democratic Caucus, highlighting the havoc that would be wreaked on Medicare and other health programs – undermining health care for a third of Americans – by defunding the Affordable Care Act. Republican Obsession with Defunding ACA Will Wreak Havoc on Medicare and Other Federal Health Programs, Undermine Health Care for 1/3 of All Americans Dear Democratic Colleague: We all understand that 25 million Americans would lose access to health coverage if Republicans defund the Affordable Care Act (ACA), but what many people do not know is that the Republican efforts to defund the ACA will also wreak havoc on Medicare and other federal health programs. Defunding ACA would disrupt provider payments under Medicare, Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and threaten access to care for more than 100 million seniors, people with disabilities, children and pregnant women. Defunding the ACA would also increase out-of-pocket costs for senior citizens and people with disabilities who need prescription medicines, annual check-ups, mammograms, tobacco cessation programs and other important care. HHS first detailed the damage from defunding ACA in 2011; this letter also summarizes the potential damage to Medicare and other federal health programs. Brings Medicare Provider Payments to A Grinding Halt. Defunding ACA implementation would disrupt Medicare provider payments, wreaking havoc on program operations. Under a defunding scenario, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) would be prohibited from continuing to pay providers at rates established in the ACA, negatively affecting the wide array of providers whose payment systems were improved under that law. Provider payments would stop while CMS figured out what payment rates to use instead. One of the most extreme repercussions is that CMS would not be able to pay Medicare Advantage plans. The ACA created a new system for MA plans, but CMS would not be able to pay plans under this system and there is no alternative payment system in place. Defunding would thus result in a significant disruption for the 14.5 million beneficiaries participating in MA plans, and significantly higher costs for taxpayers and beneficiaries. This short-sighted and vindictive tactic to undermine the ACA would unwind a successful multi-year effort to lead the nation to a smarter, better, more value-driven Medicare payment system and would raise overall program costs. Stops Medicare and Medicaid Efforts to Fight Fraud. The ACA provided the Inspector General and the Department of Justice with critical new authorities to put fraudsters out of business and behind bars. Defunding the ACA and prohibiting CMS from implementing it stops those new authorities in their tracks, undermining ongoing efforts to fight fraud. New provider screening and enrollment systems would be halted, hindering the program’s ability to fight fraud. Ends New Medicare Benefits. Defunding the ACA means Medicare can no longer pay claims for benefit improvements created in the ACA, such as additional prescription drug coverage, the annual wellness exam and free preventive care. Forces People with Disabilities and Elderly into Institutions. The ACA included new options for States to keep people out of institutions and living in their homes. States would lose this funding, forcing tens of thousands of the most vulnerable patients into nursing homes and potentially leading to greater health care costs. Defunding the ACA also denies resources needed to implement protections against nursing home abuse – such as federal background checks on employees in these homes. Causes Millions of Americans to Immediately Lose Health Coverage. The six states that elected to offer Medicaid coverage to low-income adults in advance of 2014 would be forced to drop that coverage. Additionally, defunding the ACA would effectively shut down the Medicaid program in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and other territories – rescinding funding already provided for Medicaid over the next six years. Defunds the Children’s Health Insurance Program. The ACA funded the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which provides coverage to nearly 11 million children in moderate income families through 2015. The Republican approach would rescind the funding the ACA provided – $13 billion in 2014 alone – effectively ending this insurance coverage for the vast majority of children covered under CHIP. In sum, while it is obvious that the Republican effort to defund and delay ACA hurts coverage for millions of struggling middle-class individuals and families, we wanted to make it clear that this dangerous obsession has far-reaching, damaging implications in Medicare and elsewhere. If you have any questions or need additional information, feel free to contact the Democratic staff on the Committee on Ways and Means or the Committee on Energy and Commerce. Sincerely, Rep. Sander Levin Rep. Henry Waxman Rep. Jim McDermott Rep. Frank Pallone
09.18.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released additional emails from Internal Revenue Service employees after USA Today published a leaked document that lists 162 organizations whose applications for tax-exempt status were pending before IRS screeners in November 2011. The newly released emails show that the document published by USA Today was put together by Hilary Goehausen, an IRS Tax Law Specialist and a registered Republican, and further illustrate a lack of any political motivation by IRS employees. It was generated by the IRS in an effort to speed up its review of pending applications for social welfare status, including both tea party organizations and progressive groups. Goehausen included her own comments on the spreadsheet next to each organization’s name based on her review of the organization’s application and supplemental materials, including organizations’ web sites in order to speed along review of these cases and assist development specialists who would be asked to complete the processing of the applications. In addition, Ranking Member Levin has asked the Treasury Inspector General to review the leak of this document as it contained confidential taxpayer information and was included in the production of documents to Congress protected by 6103 authority, which makes it illegal to publicly disclose taxpayer information. "Republicans continue to try to spin a story that is simply not supported by the facts. Our four-month investigation has brought forward not a single piece of evidence to suggest any political motivation or involvement outside of the IRS,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin. “This document was created by a registered Republican when the IRS was seeking to speed up its review process of applicants seeking tax-exempt status. The fact that progressive groups were on the list further illustrates that there was no political motivation in the processing of applications.” BACKGROUND: EMAIL: Hilary Goehausen, a Tax Law Specialist, outlines the process she used to prepare the list of pending applications in the IRS inventory to determine which cases can “go favorable,” as Goehuesen notes. EMAIL: Hilary Goehausen, in explaining her approach to generating the list, notes that would involve a similar approach to the IRS review of “ACA cases,” a reference to the Affordable Care Act. EMAIL: Holly Paz, Director of Exempt Organizations Rulings and Agreements, explains Hilary Goehausen’s task in preparing the list: “We are tasking Hillary [sic] with … identifying those that clearly are advocacy cases and those that are clearly not.” EMAIL: Michael Seto, Manager of EO Technical, explains to Hilary Goehausen that her evaluation of the outstanding cases will help the IRS process them: “We want you guys to finish reviewing these cases first so EOD can determine what type of cases they are and how to process them. Your evaluations will help Cindy determine how many people she will need to process these cases.” TESTIMONY: Hilary Goehausen, the IRS Tax Law Specialist who put together the list of 162 groups, told congressional investigators in a July 2, 2013 interview that she is a registered Republican. Q: Do you have a party affiliation when you're voting, registration? A: Yes. Q: What is your party affiliation? A: Republican Party. ###
09.18.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin, who has been working with Macomb Community College on their grant application, released the following statement after the Department of Labor announced the recipients of the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Community College grant. “MCC is a leader in worker training, and this grant will further leverage their expertise in the vital advanced manufacturing sector,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “When Labor Secretary Perez called me with the news this morning I invited him to Macomb to see all the effective work that is being done there.” Background on the Grant The Department of Labor announced $474.5 million in grants to community colleges and universities around the country for the development and expansion of innovative training programs. The grants are part of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Grant Program, which promote skills development and employment opportunities in fields such as advanced manufacturing, transportation and health care, as well as science, technology, engineering and math careers through partnerships between training providers and local employers. Macomb Community College in Warren will receive $9.6 million as the lead college in a consortium of 8 institutions in Michigan. A full list of colleges and funding levels for this project is below. College City State Amount Bay de Noc Community College Escanaba MI $ 1,473,249 Grand Rapids Community College Grand Rapids MI $ 4,128,382 Kellogg Community College Battle Creek MI $ 2,655,476 Lake Michigan Community College Benton Harbor MI $ 1,217,576 Lansing Community College Lansing MI $ 2,114,000 Macomb Community College Warren MI $ 9,615,803 Mott Community College Flint MI $ 2,688,000 Schoolcraft College Livonia MI $ 1,107,377 In a July 2013 letter to Acting Assistant Secretary of Labor Eric Seleznow supporting the grant application, Rep. Levin wrote the following: “I enthusiastically support the application submitted by Macomb Community College (MCC) on behalf of the Michigan Coalition for Advanced Manufacturing (M-CAM) for a Trade Adjustment Assistance for Community College and Career Training (TAACCCT) grant. I draw your attention to the fact that within the M-CAM service area the Department of Labor has certified nearly 300 local cases under the TAA program and over 58,000 TAA impacted workers. M-CAM is a vital advanced manufacturing initiative for the future of our State that will “feature an advanced manufacturing competency model that promotes job readiness skills, basic skill development, pathways to certificates/degrees, employer involvement, online/hybrid courses, education plans, prior learning assessments, and career services. Participants enter the program at multiple points based on skills and education needs. Member colleges plan to create 13 new industry-focused credentials and upgrade/modify 63 certificate and degree programs. Importantly, M-CAM is supported by a broad range of private sector, employer partners, government and public workforce agencies and diverse set of foundations and non-profits.” ####
09.11.2013	Our nation is engaged in an important discussion about the appropriate U.S. response to the Syrian government’s use of chemical weapons against its own people. I supported the President’s decision to involve Congress in this decision and I have personally read the available classified materials and attended several classified briefings on the chemical weapons attack. Last night, the President spoke to the American people about the situation in Syria, the role of the United States and what is at stake for our nation. I hope you had the opportunity to listen. You may view the National Address here, or read the written version here. I wanted to provide you additional information on the areas under consideration as well as my view on the U.S. response. The Use of Chemical Weapons The evidence is clear that chemical weapons – in this case a Sarin nerve agent–were loaded into warheads and fired by rockets into a Syrian suburb. Over 1400 Syrians – including 400 children – were killed. Videos have been released by the Senate Intelligence Committee with deeply disturbing footage of men, women and children suffering through convulsions and other symptoms of chemical weapons exposure many before dying. Further intelligence reports clearly illustrate the Syrian government involvement in these attacks and there is broad international agreement on these facts. The use of chemical weapons has been condemned by 98 percent of the global community of nations. The Chemical Weapons Convention prohibiting the use of chemical weapons and setting out to destroy existing stockpiles has been signed by 188 countries, including all 15 Members of the United Nations Security Council. A chemical weapons attack is indiscriminate in who it targets – often without warning and without even seeing or smelling the nerve agent - gruesome in its impact on the body and capable of bringing about massive death. The broader threat of chemical weapons is how easily they may be transported, fall into the wrong hands and be used by terrorists. Chemical weapons do not require a military infrastructure to deploy. The United States has a direct stake in keeping chemical weapons out of the hands of the terrorists that target us, and sending a strong signal to all that their use will be responded to. The message we send to Syria will be heard by Iran, North Korea and the terrorist organization, Hezbollah. The United Nations, the Arab league and the G-20 group of nations have all condemned the use of chemical weapons by Syria. The Role of the United States I voted against the Iraq War Resolution, and I have supported drawing to a close the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. I fully understand the deep impact these conflicts have had in our nation over the last decade. I do not believe that the U.S. is the world’s policeman. I do believe that we are called upon to serve as its leader during times of crisis. The President has determined that a targeted military strike designed to degrade Syrian’s military capabilities and prevent the use of chemical weapons again is in the national security interest of the United States. The Congress is considering a Resolution of support for a focused and time-limited military strike. The President has made it clear that the U.S. response will not involve U.S. ground troops. I support this limited response in order to penalize the use of chemical weapons, deter future use and prevent the spread of chemical weapons. Allowing the use of chemical weapons to stand is a threat to our country and our allies, and would establish a dangerous environment for future generations. Diplomacy The United States has engaged in diplomacy for over a year to prevent the Syrian government from using chemical weapons. We engaged with them directly and through the U.N., and through their allies, Russia and Iran. At the U.N. Security Council, China and Russia repeatedly blocked any meaningful action. For example, it took the U.N six months to support the U.S. proposal to have a team of U.N. inspectors on the ground in Syria so their presence might deter an attack. But while the international inspectors were across town, Syria conducted this latest and largest chemical attack. This week, under the threat of a military response, Russia has put forward a proposal for Syria to turn over all of their chemical weapons. We should keep in mind that Syria has denied they had chemical weapons in the past and on Monday they denied their use of chemical weapons. We should be very skeptical that they are now willing to stop production, disclose locations of their chemical weapons and turn them over to international supervision. The United States and our allies around the world are now thoroughly and aggressively pursuing the seriousness of this proposal. I support this effort. I will continue to send out updates on this important national conversation.
09.10.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement today after Majority Leader Cantor reportedly told House Republicans that GOP leaders will demand a delay of the Affordable Care Act’s implementation in exchange for agreeing to raise the debt ceiling: Threatening to default and send our economy into a tailspin is irresponsible enough as it is. Threatening to default in order to put big health insurance companies back in charge of Americans’ health care and prevent people from getting affordable health coverage is the height of irresponsibility.” ###
09.10.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin made the following statement tonight following President Obama's remarks on Syria: "The President effectively described why it is in our nation's national security interest to hold Syria accountable for their horrendous use of chemical weapons against their own people. As the President stated, terrible dictators count on people to look the other way, and I do not believe that America looks the other way when it comes to crimes against humanity. We have a national security interest in stopping the use of chemical weapons, preventing their spread, and signaling to other nations that we will not look the other way. "As the president made clear, without the threat of a military response to the use of chemical weapons, Syria would not be indicating – with Russia’s support – any willingness to rid itself of these weapons. It is now vital that all nations, including Russia, join in holding Syria to account. The U.S. and other nations must maintain their resolve to respond in the event that Syria does not follow through. What’s at stake is a clear message to all who possess or might develop weapons of mass destruction – whether Iran, North Korea or a terrorist organization like Hezbollah. ###
09.05.2013	U.S. Reps. Sander Levin, John Dingell and Louise Slaughter of New York are spearheading an effort to persuade the House and Senate Appropriations Committees to provide $300 million in 2014 funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), a slight increase from this year’s level of $285 million. The lawmakers recently began circulating a letter among House colleagues representing Great Lakes states that they plan to send to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees. The so-called “Dear Colleague” letter seeks co-signers to the letter to appropriators. “All of our states have a vital interest in the important work that is being accomplished by the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative,” Reps. Levin, Dingell and Slaughter wrote in the letter to Members. “The projects funded by the GLRI are helping to clean up toxic Areas of Concern, protect and restore habitat, fight invasive species like the Asian carp, and prevent beach closures. Completing the work of restoring the Great Lakes is a wise investment for our eight-state region and for the nation.” The GLRI provides funding to address vital environmental issues in the Great Lakes, such as cleaning up contaminated sediments, reducing polluted runoff, mitigating habitat degradation and loss, and addressing invasive species such as the Asian carp. The program has invested $1.3 billion in Great Lakes restoration over the last four years. The GLRI is currently funded at $285 million. President Obama sought $300 million in funding in his 2014 budget request – a level of funding that is supported by Great Lakes advocacy groups such as Healing Our Waters, the Great Lakes Commission, the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, and the Great Lakes Metro Chambers Coalition. GLRI Letter to Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey, Chairwoman Mikulski, and Ranking Member Shelby We are writing to express our strong support for efforts to protect the Great Lakes. As you work to finalize the funding bills for Fiscal Year 2014, we ask that you include $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). The Great Lakes are a unique and invaluable national treasure that must be protected and restored. The Lakes are the world’s largest system of fresh surface water, providing drinking water for more than 30 million Americans. They are also an invaluable environmental and economic resource that produce immeasurable benefits for the region and the nation. The Great Lakes support 1.5 million jobs, generating $62 billion in wages each year. The Great Lakes fishery alone is valued at $7 billion a year. The Lakes also support commerce, agriculture, transportation and tourism, and are home to over 3500 species of plants and animals. At the same time, the Lakes have struggled with invasive species, toxic chemical contamination, habitat loss, and beach closures. We must do everything we can to protect the Great Lakes and combat these clear and present threats. Neither the House or Senate has passed the 2014 Interior/EPA appropriations bill. The bill under consideration by the House Appropriations Committee currently provides $210 million for GLRI, a 26 percent cut from the current funding level. The Senate Appropriations Committee mark calls for $300 million, the same as the Obama Administration’s budget request for the program. We understand that resources are tight this year, but we believe protection of the Great Lakes must remain a priority, and respectfully request that you provide $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. Sincerely, ####
09.01.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after attending a classified briefing on Syria: "Today's classified briefing of Members of Congress spelled out what is behind the publicly released report that the Syrian Government carried out a major chemical weapons attack on August 21 involving a nerve agent. That assessment is being derived from multiple sources. I support Congress being asked to vote. The Syrian Government has crossed a red line set out not only by the President but over many years by human society. The Congress must respond and I will vote in favor of a response that is targeted and focused." ###
08.31.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after President Obama announced that he would seek a vote in Congress before launching a military strike in Syria: "I support the president’s decision to seek authorization from Congress. Based on the evidence provided to date, I think that there must be a response to the actions by the Syrian government. In order to obtain all of the latest information, I am returning to Washington tomorrow for a classified briefing." ###
08.27.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement after Treasury Secretary Lew told Congress today that the United States will hit the limit of its borrowing authority in mid-October after having exhausted extraordinary measures: “With just nine legislative days currently scheduled in September, Republicans must return to Congress prepared to move beyond the kind of brinksmanship that undermined our economic recovery two years ago. It is time for Republicans to do the right thing – not the far right thing – and put the American economy first. Congress must pay its bills based on the legislative bills that it has passed, living up to our obligations and paying our bills just like the American family does.” ###
08.16.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) on Monday will travel to Bangladesh for a three-day visit, a trip that follows the suspension of Generalized System of Preferences trade benefits for Bangladesh because of its failure to meet labor eligibility criteria. During the visit, Rep. Levin plans to visit multiple garment factories, meet with factory workers and business leaders as well as high-ranking government officials and non-governmental organization officials. Over the last several months, Rep. Levin has: Applauded the Obama administration’s decision in June to suspend GSP trade benefits for Bangladesh. Urged Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in a letter with House Democratic leaders to join in a comprehensive, concrete and coordinated plan to ensure worker safety and secure workers’ rights in Bangladesh. Called upon nine separate U.S. retailers – in a letter with House Democratic leaders – to join a global coalition supporting a May 12 Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh, developed by the Worker Rights Consortium and a number of key stakeholders. Urged the Obama administration – in a letter to the President with Rep. George Miller – to convene representatives of the European and American retailers, the Bangladeshi garment industry, garment workers, their unions and the government, the International Labor Organization, and non-governmental organizations to facilitate the development of a concrete plan of action to address the range of issues relating to working conditions and worker rights in the garment sector. ###
08.15.2013	The Department of Health and Human Services today announced that it was awarding four Michigan organizations Navigator grants to provide consumers assistance as they shop for and enroll in the new Michigan health insurance marketplace this fall. Enrollment in the health insurance marketplaces created under the Affordable Care Act begins Oct. 1. The awardees in Michigan (and their anticipated grant amounts) are: Michigan Consumers for Healthcare ($1,319,345) Community Bridges Management Inc. ($896,366) Arab Community Center for Economic & Social Services ($276,593) American Indian Health & Family Services of SE Michigan ($49,583.50) More information on each grantee is below. A full list of grantees is here. “The new marketplaces will provide unprecedented access to affordable and quality health insurance to individuals and families throughout Michigan and the nation,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “The navigators announced today are going to play a vital role in ensuring that consumers have the information they need as they shop for and choose their health insurance plans.” Today’s announcement builds upon the significant progress in outreach and education made this summer. Consumers can learn about and enroll in coverage later this fall through HealthCare.gov. HHS launched 24-hours-a-day consumer call center ready to answer questions in 150 languages. More than 1,200 community health centers across the country are preparing to help enroll uninsured Americans in coverage, and a partnership with the Institute of Museum and Library Services will help trusted local libraries be a resource for consumers who want information on their options. In addition, HHS has begun training other individuals who will be providing in-person assistance, such as agents and brokers and certified application counselors. The Navigators will be trained to provide unbiased information to consumers about the Health Insurance Marketplaces, qualified health plans, and public programs such as Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program. The new marketplaces established through the Affordable Care Act will be open for enrollment Oct. 1. Navigators will also be trained on adhering to strict security and privacy standards – including how to safeguard a consumer’s personal information – and will be required to meet these standards. They will be subject to federal criminal penalties for violations of privacy and fraud statutes, on top of any relevant state law penalties. INFORMATION ON NAVIGATOR GRANTEES: Community Bridges Management Inc. Anticipated grant amount: $896,366 Community Bridges Management, Inc. provides expert IPA services including medical network management, claims processing oversight, provider relations, medical care service, patient relations and services. Funds will be used to provide both training and resources to make the process of enrolling in a health plan easier and more understandable through one-on-one contact. Community Bridges will also conduct widespread outreach and education activities. Arab Community Center for Economic & Social Services Anticipated grant amount: $276,593 ACCESS is non-profit service agency that advocates for, empowers and enables individuals, families, and the Arab, Chaldean, and Bangladeshi American communities in metropolitan Detroit to achieve optimal health and wellness. Funds will be used to proactively reach out to and engage under/uninsured community members through local, multicultural electronic and print media, public access television and radio, and monthly ACCESS and community partner events, like weekly health “Expos” at the three County Public Health Offices. American Indian Health & Family Services of SE Michigan, Inc. Anticipated grant amount: $49,583.50 American Indian Health and Family Services is a non-profit health organization serving a large number of the uninsured or under insured. Funds will be used to host educational forums, publications, provide self-service kiosks and expert personnel able to assist consumers to enroll in health plans. Michigan Consumers for Healthcare Anticipated grant amount: $1,319,345 The Michigan Consumers for Healthcare (MCH) network includes statewide organizations and local affiliates with deep experience in conducting Medicaid and CHIP outreach and enrollment and health insurance counseling for uninsured and vulnerable individuals and families. The project will provide services in 10 Michigan Regions and Tribal Health Centers. These organizations reach low-income, vulnerable populations in every region and county in the state, guaranteeing that the project will serve Michigan residents regardless of where they live. ####
08.09.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) released additional excerpts from an interview with an IRS agent that was disclosed yesterday by Ways and Means Committee Republicans. Rep. Levin also issued the following statement on the transcript excerpt released by the Ways and Means Committee Republicans: "House Republicans are at it again trying to twist the facts to fit their political narrative. This particular screener is not singling out applications but rather sending all potential political advocacy cases for secondary screening out of an abundance of caution. The Republicans should stop trying to distort facts to gain a political advantage and instead focus on fixing the 501(c)(4) guidance problem. I call on Chairman Camp, in the future, to release the full context of any exchanges and not carve out parts around 6103 confidential tax information to try to fit the Republican narrative." Additional Passages (excerpts previously released by Ways and Means Republicans included in bold): COMMITTEE: Today, currently, how do you analyze advocacy cases. If, for example, Tea Party of Arkansas came in today, how would you handle it? IRS AGENT: Well, the BOLO list doesn't exist anymore. COMMITTEE: Sure. IRS AGENT: If a political advocacy case came in today, I would give it -- or talk about it to my manager because right now we really don't have any direction or we haven't had any for the last month and a half. ------ COMMITTEE: Yeah. If you see a case today, and there is no reference to "Tea Party," but the applicant organization indicates in its application, the 1024, that it is going to engage in political activity, what would you do with that case? IRS AGENT: I would send it to the secondary screening, political advocacy. COMMITTEE: Okay. So you wouldn't take that case to your manager, would you? IRS AGENT: Well, I don't know that the policy Well, if I saw one now, I would. COMMITTEE: You would bring it to your manager? IRS AGENT: The reason being, I would want her concurrence that this See, with the BOLO gone, I want to make sure I do the right thing when I am looking at a case. I would want to make sure that it is handled according to EO Determinations policy. Do you understand what I am trying to say? COMMITTEE: I think what you are telling me is that out of an abundance of caution, you would bring this IRS AGENT: Yes. Yes. COMMITTEE: to your manager today. Okay. COMMITTEE: If I could just follow up. So in the past when the BOLO existed, they would automatically go to Group 7822 [secondary screening group], correct? IRS AGENT: Yes, uh huh. Prior to the 7823 being created. COMMITTEE: Right. Replacing 7822. And now the process is sort of, as you say, out of an abundance of caution if it's a political advocacy case, including Tea Party cases, you will take it to your manager and then your manager will say send it over to 7823. Right? IRS AGENT: That’s correct. ----- COMMITTEE: If you saw -- I am asking this currently, if today if a Tea Party case, a group -- a case from a Tea Party group came in to your desk, you reviewed the file and there was no evidence of political activity, would you potentially approve that case? Is that something you would do? IRS AGENT: At this point I would send it to secondary screening, political advocacy. COMMITTEE: So you would treat a Tea Party group as a political advocacy case even if there was no evidence of political activity on the application. Is that right? IRS AGENT: Based on my current manager's direction, uh-huh. ----- COMMITTEE: Is it easy to distinguish between lobbying and political activity just sort of based on the application? Just your initial screening of an application? IRS AGENT: It's not real easy. COMMITTEE: And so that's why usually you would send that on to a secondary screening? IRS AGENT: Yes. Advocacy. COMMITTEE: Uh huh. IRS AGENT: Are you talking political advocacy? COMMITTEE: Sure. IRS AGENT: Are you talking specific to a COMMITTEE: Not specific to a group, just in general. IRS AGENT: It's not an easy thing to determine. ###
08.02.2013	Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement to day on the nomination of John Koskinen to be Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service: I welcome President Obama's nomination of John Koskinen to be IRS commissioner. Mr. Koskinen will bring vital management experience in the public and private sectors to the IRS and I look forward to working with him." ###
08.01.2013	Today U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) and Rep. Jim Gerlach (PA-06) are introducing a bipartisan bill that will expand and make permanent tax incentives for small businesses, farmers and ranchers to donate food inventory to charity. Currently, businesses donating food inventory to charity are eligible to take a heightened charitable tax deduction for the donated food (limited to 10% of the business’s income). With Congressional action, businesses that are not C corporations, including farmers and ranchers, will become ineligible for the deduction in 2014. The deduction’s expiration is set to take place during a time when nearly 50 million Americans, including 17 million children, are food insecure, meaning they have limited or uncertain availability of nutritionally adequate and safe foods, according to USDA’s most recent report on food insecurity. “Providing additional incentives for restaurateurs, small businesses, farmers, and ranchers to donate food that might otherwise go to waste is just common sense” Rep. Levin said. “Last year, in my district alone, companies donated over 83,500 pounds of prepared food with a value of $518,000 to 20 local charities. It is vital that we not let food go to waste when far too many Americans wake up hungry every day.” "Helping local food banks and other non-profit organizations provide safe, nutritious food to families who might otherwise go hungry makes so much more sense than just dumping the food into landfills to rot,” Rep. Gerlach said. “Staff and volunteers at community food banks, church food pantries, homeless shelters and other non-profit organizations are working harder than ever to feed those in need so making permanent this incentive for businesses to donate surplus food is more critical than ever." Feeding America’s CEO Robert Aiken reported to the Ways and Means Committee earlier this year that since the 2006 expansion of the enhanced tax deduction there has been a 137% increase in donations from non C corporation restaurants. However, allowing the deduction to be temporary makes it very difficult for small businesses to incorporate food donations into a long-term business plan and reduces the amount of businesses willing to donate food. Feeding America also published information regarding their nationwide network of food banks and pantries. They have seen a 46% increase in demand for emergency food assistance since 2006, and food banks have reported that this surge in demand for food is expected to remain high as food prices and energy costs continue to rise and unemployment continue at its current levels. These conditions, coupled with decreased donations and funding resources, have left food banks and the struggling Americans they serve facing a “perfect storm” of rising need and diminished resources. Additionally, the legislation would increase the cap of allowable charitable contributions from 10% of income to 15%. Currently, many businesses are capped at the amount they donate due to the limit on their charitable deduction. Increasing the cap will encourage more donations from those taxpayers at a time when the need is particularly acute. ####
08.01.2013	Today the Committee is holding a hearing entitled, “The Status of the Affordable Care Act’s Implementation,�? under the pretense that House Republicans are interested in the implementation of the landmark law. The truth is just the opposite, as evidenced by what House Republicans plan to do in just 24 hours, when they will push a bill through the House that would prohibit any funding for the IRS to implement the Affordable Care Act. House Republicans have made plain over the last three years that their sole interest is to disrupt the law’s implementation. Tomorrow’s vote will be their last action before adjourning for a five-week recess – a fitting sign off for a Conference whose singular obsession with the health law’s repeal over the last three years has come at the expense of so many other issues that are critically important to American families and the overall economy. By the time they leave here Friday for summer recess, Republicans will have voted no fewer than 40 times to repeal Obamacare. The Republican mission is clear: Don’t implement, destroy. How else can Republicans explain why they have occupied so much time and wasted countless taxpayer dollars on 40 repeal votes that stand no chance of being enacted while refusing to go to conference to enact a budget into law? How else can they explain why they have leaned on outside organizations, including the National Football League, to discourage them from helping to educate Americans about current law health insurance opportunities and assistance that will be available through the marketplaces? And how else can they explain why they have worked so hard to discourage states from expanding their Medicaid programs – even when fully federally funded – which will prevent millions of the most vulnerable Americans from gaining access to health coverage? At every turn, Republicans have chosen the path of disruption. And as is so vividly on display this week, at every turn, Republicans have sought to deny the Obama administration funding needed to implement the Affordable Care Act. If Republicans were really interested in the implementation of Obamacare, they might know that in the 13 states that have already published preliminary premiums for marketplace coverage, Americans will be able to purchase insurance at a price that is on average 20 percent below what the Congressional Budget Office estimated. In New York, insurance rates in the marketplace are set to be half the price of what is currently available. And that is without taking the tax credits into account, which will further lower the effective premium for many families. If Republicans were truly interested in the Affordable Care Act’s implementation, they would inform their constituents that a simple three-page application awaits single Americans purchasing insurance on the exchange. And that neither the Internal Revenue Service nor the Department of Health and Human Services will have access to medical records or other personal health history. Instead, we see scare tactics and other misguided efforts to convince constituents that applying for health coverage will be time-consuming and cumbersome. But we have long known that Republicans have no interest in ensuring that Americans understand what even Speaker Boehner himself has acknowledged is “The law of the land.�? Their only interest is to misinform, misconstrue and mislead the American public about the Affordable Care Act. Even conservative Republican Senator Ted Cruz chastised the Republican effort in the House this week. He said: “There are a lot of politicians in Washington who love empty symbolic votes. The House has voted what 39, 40, 41 times I can’t keep track to repeal ObamaCare. Those votes were by and large empty symbolic votes that had zero chance of passing.�? Thank you for joining us today Mr. Werfel and Mr. Cohen. I want to thank you for the hard work your organizations are doing to offer consumers a rational and easy enrollment process beginning Oct. 1. I ask unanimous consent that the following article from the American Enterprise Institute’s Norm Ornstein be inserted in the Record. ###
07.31.2013	Mr. LEVIN. I yield myself such time as I may consume. Let me spend a few minutes, if I might, discussing the context of this legislation and a bit of what's in it. The Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 enacted a list of 10 ``acts or omissions'' for which IRS employees face mandatory firing. This bill would amend the 10th act or omission to expand existing grounds for termination to include political motivation. We all agree that IRS employees should not act with a political purpose. We all passionately believe that. But I want it to be clear that because of the environment in which this bill is being considered, there is absolutely no evidence that any IRS employees acted with political motivation in the matter under investigation. The inspector general reviewed and concluded that ``there is no indication that pulling these selected applications was politically motivated.'' The inspector general has come before Congress repeatedly and testified numerous times that he has found no evidence of political motivation. At the very first hearing on this matter that was held in mid-May, the inspector general was asked if he found any evidence of political motivation in the selection of the tax exemption applications. He answered, ``We did not, sir.'' When questioned by my colleague on the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. McDermott, whether he stands behind the assertion that ``no one acted out of malice or political motivation,'' the inspector general answered, ``We have no evidence at this time to contradict that assertion, sir.'' When my colleague on the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Becerra, asked him if it is correct that he did not find any evidence of political motivation here, the inspector general replied, ``That is correct, sir.'' In addition--and I want to emphasize this--staff from the Ways and Means Committee and Government Oversight Committees of this House have interviewed 17 IRS employees directly involved in this matter under oath, and none of these employees have suggested that the IRS actions were either politically motivated or the result of influence by any individual or organization outside of the IRS. Finally, as I mentioned earlier, the IG asked his investigative arm to review 5,500 emails. The head of the investigation concluded, ``The emails indicated the organizations needed to be pulled because the IRS employees were not sure how to process them, not because they wanted to stall or hinder the application. There was no indication that pulling these applications was politically motivated. The email traffic indicated there were unclear processing directions and the group wanted to make sure they had guidance on processing the applications so they pulled them.'' It's clear that there's no evidence of political motivation by the IRS under investigation now. Indeed, there has been too much political motivation in this entire effort by Republicans. I want to say just a few words about what's in the bill, and the gentleman from Ohio and I have discussed this. The majority did not follow regular order. This bill did not come before the Ways and Means Committee. It essentially was not considered either at the subcommittee level, I believe, or the full committee level. So the Republican majority, in my judgment, did not carefully draft their bill to ensure that it was consistent with the current statute. If it had done so, there might have been improvement to this legislation and added the language ``willful failure'' as it appears under four of the other acts and omissions. I think this bill will go to the Senate, as it should. I hope if it considers it, it will take up this issue of whether or not there should be a willful requirement in terms of its conduct because we're talking about the ability administratively to discharge an employee. I think if there is political motivation on their part, action should be taken. I think it is also important that we understand that there had to be some willfulness in that action.
07.30.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after Ways and Means Republicans produced an analysis of an unspecified and unverified subset of tax-exemption applications to which only they have access: “The Republican analysis is noteworthy for what it fails to acknowledge and what it fails to disclose. The IRS Inspector General concluded that there was no evidence of political motivation. However, his failure to disclose that liberal organizations also were subject to the same treatment and singled out was used by Republicans to try to tie the IRS mismanagement to the White House. First, Republicans claimed that only conservative groups were singled out and accused the White House of operating an enemies list. Now Republicans are arguing that conservative groups received more scrutiny than liberal groups. “The Republican analysis makes no mention of the time period of applications reviewed, no mention of whether they were the same applications reviewed by TIGTA in connection with the audit, and no mention of the fact that there are terms that reflect liberal organizations other than ‘progressive.’ What’s more, it doesn’t disclose the overall number of conservative groups – compared with liberal groups – who applied for tax-exempt status. This is a recurring problem in this investigation – the release of incomplete information. Indeed, that is exactly what led to fundamental flaws in the TIGTA report. “The overwhelming fact remains that Republicans will do everything they can to deflect attention from their inability to do almost anything – a record that has earned them historically low ratings from the American public.” ###
07.23.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) this week joined with Rep. Dave Joyce (OH-14), Rep. John D. Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Candice Miller (MI-10), Rep. Tom Petri (WI-06), and Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-25) in introducing a bipartisan Great Lakes package that would authorize comprehensive programs to protect the Great Lakes and boost economic growth in the Great Lakes region. The Great Lakes Ecological and Economic Protection Act of 2013 (GLEEPA), H.R.2773 would address invasive species problems, coordinate protection and restoration efforts, and bring together business and environmental organizations with a shared interest in the Great Lakes. “Congress needs to do more, not less, to protect the Great Lakes and provide resources for their full restoration,” Rep. Levin said. “The bill we are sponsoring today is a major step in the right direction, but it will be essential for Congress to follow up and provide the resources to fully fund all these vital Great Lakes programs and initiatives.” "The Great Lakes is one of the jewels of the United States and it's imperative we protect it for its environmental significance but also because of its economic might," said Rep. Joyce. "Studies have shown more than 1.5 million jobs are directly connected to these five lakes, generating $62 billion in wages. I'm proud to be part of the bipartisan group fighting for our Great Lakes." "As a lifelong outdoorsman and conservationist, I firmly believe that we owe it to future generations to restore and protect a national treasure such as the Great Lakes," said Rep. Dingell. "We have made great strides over the decades to bring back native species populations, improve the water quality, and bring back recreation opportunities and this legislation will significantly help continue those efforts." "The Great Lakes are an environmental treasure to both our economy and natural resources; protecting them is of the utmost importance," Rep. Miller said. "As legislators, it is imperative we ensure that the right policy is in place to provide needed and long-term framework to sustain the Great Lakes. We must continue to move forward vital Great Lakes restoration projects and programs aimed at sustaining the natural habitats and protecting against invasive species and pollutants." Yesterday, House Republicans on the House Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Subcommittee released a draft bill slashing funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) by 79 percent. This cut would reduce funding from $285 million for this year to just $60 million in 2014. “If these cuts to GLRI stand, it will be a huge setback to efforts to restore the Great Lakes,” Rep. Levin said. “This is not the time to cut funding for Great Lakes restoration.” GLEEPA would: Authorize the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, an action-oriented, results-driven initiative targeting the most significant problems within the basin, including aquatic invasive species, toxics and contaminated sediment, nonpoint source pollution, and habitat and wildlife protection and restoration. Reauthorize the Great Lakes Legacy Act which has successfully at removed contaminated sediment from the U.S. Areas of Concern (AOC). Reauthorize the Great Lakes National Program Office, the primary liaison between all Great Lakes programs and the EPA Authorize the Great Lakes Advisory Board (GLAB), which will be composed of members representing a broad range of interests across the Great Lakes including, business, environmental groups, agricultural groups, foundations, youth groups, environmental justice groups, and academia. The GLAB will provide recommendations to the IATF on matters pertaining to Great Lakes restoration and protection Authorize The Great Lakes Interagency Task Force (IATF) which would bring together eleven U.S. Cabinet secretaries and federal agency heads to coordinate restoration of the Great Lakes amongst the different agencies. Background: To date, Congress has appropriated over $1.3 billion for the GLRI program. GLRI funds are distributed to projects on a competitive basis, and can be used to combat aquatic invasive species, clean up toxic sediments, control polluted runoff, restore wetlands, and conserve and enhance fish and wildlife habitat. With lawmakers expected to be in session just 16 more days before the end of the fiscal year, there will probably not be time for the full House to consider the bill, so the Subcommittee action may end up being the position of the House of Representatives in the upcoming budget negotiations with the Senate and President Obama. ####
07.18.2013	With negotiations spanning the Atlantic and the Pacific, illustrating that globalization is accelerating, we face major opportunities and challenges. I believe that this Administration, in which you have played a key role, has on some important occasions demonstrated a broader vision of international trade. It has helped to create jobs through exports, while also looking actively at the impact of imports. It is working to incorporate enforceable worker and environmental standards in trade agreements. It has been more active in enforcement --from initiating WTO cases, to applying the China safeguard on tires, to creating the ITEC. It has responded to a series of tragedies in the factories of Bangladesh – tragedies that have shaken conventional resistance to building some basic standards to shape the human impact of the heightened flow of international trade. As USTR, you face many challenges: “forced localization” in China and India, continued concerns about labor rights in Colombia, evasion of antidumping duties, even the future success of the WTO. TPP can expand our exports in many sectors, including services – which are also under negotiation in Geneva. While there are many outstanding issues, Japan’s engagement presents a broader policy question: whether and how to address one-way trade, a very unlevel playing field. The U.S. has had massive trade deficits with Japan for decades, the vast majority in the automotive sector where Japan has taken advantage of a completely open U.S. market while Japan’s has been tightly locked to imports from anywhere. If the principle of two-way trade really matters- and I believe it does-- we need to chart a course to achieve it. What the U.S. negotiates with Japan could have important impacts on the U.S. economy and how TPP would be received in Congress. I am working with stakeholders to develop a proposal and hope to share it next week. The Trans-Atlantic negotiations also provide an opportunity to expand our exports and strengthen our economy. Just as important, they can establish new rules for global trade, promoting an equitable and market-based economic model over the emerging model of ‘state capitalism.’ These negotiations won’t be easy, but our relationship with Europe is unlike any other. We should build upon the strength of that relationship and should reflect our many common objectives and values, while also respecting our differences. The discussion on Trade Promotion Authority has begun and there is widely-shared interest in getting it right. First, TPA sets the rules for engagement between Congress and the Administration. A significant, sustained role for Congress is critical. Today, trade agreements address a broad and growing range of policy areas, so members of Congress must play an active role in their development. There is also the chance that more effective, broader Congressional involvement would help to establish more common ground in Congress for trade agreements. Second, the TPA process must be a vehicle in crafting a broader strategy- as we did in 1988- to tackle the increasing challenges and potential benefits of globalization and enhance U.S. competiveness. Since we last considered TPA, the United States has experienced the largest trade deficits in our history, contributing to lost jobs. These imbalances have more than one ingredient. One source often stems from trading partners refusing to play by the rules. Currency manipulation is a vivid example. There is precedent for pairing TPA with currency legislation. We did so with the very first TPA bill in 1974, and we did it again in the 1988 Act. The House and Senate have both passed currency legislation, and this issue needs to be part of the TPA, TPP, and TTIP discussions. With sequestration, USTR -- like many other agencies – is working under difficult personnel constraints. We need to help ensure that the Administration can continue to devote the needed resources not only to negotiating new trade rules, but to enforcing those that exist. We look forward to working with you. ###
07.18.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after IRS Inspector General Russell George testified before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee that he only became aware this month that IRS training materials included the term progressive: The Inspector General seems to be blaming the IRS for omissions in his audit when he himself is to blame. The Inspector General can claim that he was only made aware after his audit was issued that IRS training materials contained the category ‘progressive’ alongside ‘Tea Party.’ But he cannot claim to have been unaware that the term ‘progressive’ was on the ‘Be On the Look Out’ lists or that liberal groups were among the 298 advocacy organizations that he reviewed. When the Inspector General had the opportunity to clarify before Congress that ‘progressive’ was on the BOLO list and liberal groups were included in the 298 advocacy organizations, he failed to do so. His failure was used by Republicans to make numerous baseless charges, including that the White House was targeting its political enemies.” ###
07.17.2013	New information produced in the Congressional investigation shows that the IRS used key search terms to identify organizations that support the Democratic Party for scrutiny – yet the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration is claiming that releasing the search term would violate taxpayer confidentiality laws, contrary to the opinion of the IRS. At least one separate broad group of organizations that are Democratic-leaning have been identified but not released to the public, despite the IRS believing that confidentiality laws do not prohibit its disclosure to the public. While the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (“TIGTA”) found it appropriate to release the search term “Tea Party,” it is preventing release of similar terms used on the other side of the political spectrum. The group of Democratic-leaning organizations was denied tax-exempt status after their applications were pending for over three years. These denials happened during the period of TIGTA’s audit, but they were not disclosed by the Inspector General in the audit report or during his testimony before Congress. These applications were processed in the same manner as the Tea Party cases were processed, outlined in TIGTA’s audit report released on May 14: the cases were identified and screened for political activities; they were transferred to Exempt Organizations Technical Unit; they were the subject of a Sensitive Case Report; they were subject to multiple levels of review within the IRS; and they were reviewed by IRS Chief Counsel. This group of organizations shares a common term in their name that the IRS used to identify the organizations. This search term – which appeared alongside 9/12 Project and Patriots on IRS training materials used to process tax-exemption applications – was redacted from those training materials based on TIGTA’s assertion that release of the information would violate the law. In its May 14 audit report, TIGTA released the common search term “Tea Party” used by the IRS. Ranking Member Sander Levin: “At the outset, I said that singling out organizations by name was wrong. This new development does not excuse the gross mismanagement of the IRS in processing tax-exemption applications. It appears as if mismanagement of this issue is not limited to the IRS. It is imperative that the Inspector General operate in a non-partisan manner and be completely forthcoming with the Congress and the American people.” ###
07.17.2013	Today, Ranking Member Sandy Levin (D-MI), Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles Rangel (D-NY), and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA) introduced legislation to renew the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) through September 2015. The current GSP program is set to expire July 31, 2013. Ranking Member Levin: “The Generalized System of Preferences is a long-standing and valuable element of our trade and development policy. Through GSP, we can help developing countries enjoy the benefits of trade while also requiring that countries meet basic eligibility criteria that help shape the terms of trade and ensure that its benefits are more broadly shared. GSP provides benefits in the United States as well, with provisions to ensure complementarity and with most GSP imports being used as inputs for products made here.” Chairman Camp: “GSP provides important benefits to U.S. manufacturers and consumers and supports more than 80,000 American jobs. I’ve introduced this bipartisan legislation to demonstrate that the House is ready to move this bill as soon as the Senate also demonstrates that it has a credible path forward. We cannot allow this bill to be bogged down by amendments, and I urge the Senate to act quickly on a clean bill. Time is of the essence.” Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Rangel: “Through GSP, some of the poorest countries in the world get a shot at sharing in the benefits of international trade. It is vital to our commitment to promote economic development, democracy worker rights, rule of law, and other fundamental values in the world. This is a program that has received broad, bipartisan support virtually every time it has come up for renewal. We need to move on it now.” Trade Subcommittee Chairman Nunes: “GSP has significant benefits for the U.S. economy and our geostrategic interests. Last year, the GSP program saved U.S. companies nearly $750 million in import duties and supported tens of thousands of American jobs. I will continue to work with Chairman Camp and Ranking Member Levin to find a path forward in the Senate to ensure that GSP does not lapse.” Background: The Senate has repeatedly used a procedure by which it passes legislation and holds it at the Senate desk. Upon House passage of identical legislation, the House bill is sent over to the Senate and is “deemed passed” without further action by the Senate. ###
07.17.2013	Today, Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles Rangel (D-NY), and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA) announced the re-introduction of H.R. 2708, the U.S. Job Creation and Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2013. The bipartisan legislation provides temporary tax relief to help U.S. manufacturers better compete, expand and create jobs. This broadly-supported legislation lowers the cost of manufacturing inputs and some finished products not made or available here in the United States. The package includes provisions from more than 2,000 bills introduced in the House and Senate during the transparent Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB) process. “The Miscellaneous Tariff Bill helps U.S. manufacturers have the resources necessary to compete in the global marketplace,” said Ranking Member Sander Levin. “It is written to provide complete transparency in order to be certain that imported inputs will support American products and jobs, not replace or displace them.” “The MTB is critical to helping domestic manufacturers here at home,” said Chairman Camp. “Ensuring that our producers have access to materials that are needed to manufacture products they sell in the global marketplace makes our U.S.-based manufacturing sector more competitive. The bill has broad support, and through the transparent, bipartisan, and bicameral process, including a public comment period, controversial provisions have been identified and eliminated. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to pass this legislation so we can give job-creating manufacturers much-needed relief.” "This legislation reflects a transparent and bipartisan effort to lower costs for U.S. manufacturers,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles B. Rangel (D-NY). “The bill has broad support, and it has received extensive public comment. The MTB is a jobs bill, pure and simple. Suspending duties temporarily on products such as manufacturing inputs is an essential step in creating U.S. jobs and making U.S. manufacturers more competitive." Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA) added, “By temporarily suspending duties on manufacturing inputs, this bill makes U.S. manufacturers more competitive and creates U.S. jobs. The legislation essentially cuts taxes on imported goods that are not produced in America, thus removing an unnecessary cost to U.S. businesses and consumers. I look forward to working with Chairman Camp and our House and Senate colleagues to obtain swift action on this important tax relief bill.” The MTB is bipartisan, bicameral process developed over nearly 30 years and, through improvements made last Congress, is a model of transparency. On March 30, 2012, the Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee simultaneously commenced the 112th Congress MTB process and invited Members to introduce temporary miscellaneous tariff bills for consideration and inclusion in the MTB legislation. Consistent with the Committee’s MTB guidance, Members were required to submit public disclosures noting whether the benefits are broadly available and if any Member/spouse has a financial interest. Importantly, the Committee’s guidance required each bill to be non-controversial: if a domestic manufacturer or Member objected to a bill, it was eliminated. The bills were scored by CBO and were required to be under $500,000 per year. Nearly 170 House Members and Senators submitted nearly 2,000 MTBs to be considered through the bipartisan, bicameral MTB process. To ensure the highest degree of transparency, each of those individual bills was reviewed by, the Ways and Means Committee, the Senate Finance Committee, the independent International Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce, which spearheads the review of the submitted bills for the Administration. The Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee also solicited public comments on the submitted bills and, to ensure transparency, posted the comments on the website of each committee. Bills meeting the requirements of this rigorous process were compiled into a single bill, the U.S. Job Creation and Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2013 (H.R. 6727) in the 112th Congress. In the 113th Congress, Members who introduced bills in the 112th Congress were required to submit 113th Congress Disclosure Forms to refresh their disclosure information by April 2, 2013, to have their provisions included in the MTB. No new bills were accepted into the process. Bills whose sponsors did not return in the 113th Congress were required to be adopted by another Member. The bill being reintroduced today reflects H.R. 6727 with a few modifications and technical corrections. All documents pertaining to the MTB process can be found here. ###
07.12.2013	New documents from the IRS and the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration disclosed today by Oversight and Government Reform Committee Democrats further underscore the fundamental flaws within Treasury Inspector General George’s audit of the IRS’ processing of tax exemption applications. The TIGTA audit’s May 14, 2013 release – that omitted vital information released today and on June 24, 2013, through the release of “Be On the Look Out” lists that included the word “progressive” – kicked off a firestorm of totally unsubstantiated attacks from Republicans. Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the new documents: “This new information underscores the fact that the Treasury Inspector General’s audit was fundamentally flawed and created widespread misperceptions that Republicans seized on in an effort to attack the White House. It is now all the more important that Inspector General George return to Congress to explain his glaring omissions and reasons for releasing a highly misleading report. Contrary to what the Inspector General asserted in his audit and during subsequent testimony, TIGTA investigations conducted a review of whether the screening of tax-exemption applications was politically motivated and concluded – after having scrutinized 5,500 emails – that it was not. The fact that this information was not included in the final audit, nor disclosed in subsequent testimony, further highlights that the audit was fundamentally flawed. What’s more, it is now clear that screeners were instructed, in a 2010 PowerPoint presentation using images of a donkey and an elephant, to look for the term ‘progressive’ alongside ‘tea party’ in reviewing tax-exemption applications. This directly contradicts the Inspector General's statement on June 26, 2013 that ‘we did not find any evidence that the criteria you identified labeled ‘Progressives’ were used by the IRS to select potential political cases during the 2010 to 2012 timeframe we audited.’ “No one is excusing the Internal Revenue Service’s gross mismanagement of the tax-exemption application process. Indeed, as soon as this mismanagement surfaced, I urged that Mr. Miller and Ms. Lerner be relieved of their duties. In order to fix the problems with the tax-exemption application process it is critical that Members of both parties acknowledge that there was no political motivation and that applications across the political spectrum were screened using key words. “Two weeks ago, Ways and Means Committee Democrats requested that Chairman Camp ask the Inspector General to return to the Committee to testify. We have yet to receive an answer. It is critical that the IG appear before Congress.” NEW DOCUMENTS Email from TIGTA Head of Investigations noting the review of 5,500 emails and concluding: “There was no indication that pulling these selected applications was politically motivated.” PowerPoint presentation dated July 28, 2010 instructing screeners how to screen applications. Meeting minutes from July 28, 2010 presentation. ###
07.10.2013	U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-Mich.), the ranking member of the Ways and Means Committee, and George Miller (D-Calif.), the senior Democratic member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, issued the following joint statement on today’s announcement of the U.S. corporate-led Bangladesh factory safety alliance by the Bipartisan Policy Center. “This May, following a long string of preventable tragedies in the ready-made garment sector in Bangladesh, we called on the major U.S. brands and retailers – including Wal-Mart, Gap and others – to source from Bangladesh in a way that ensures that workers there have basic health and safety protections. In particular, we called on these brands and retailers to join the growing global coalition supporting the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh, a fully enforceable agreement signed by 72 major brands and retailers from 15 countries around the world, including several from the United States. “We are deeply disappointed that Wal-Mart, Gap, Target, Macy’s, The Children’s Place and the other major American retailers have rejected that call and, instead, have announced a competing program that borrows the rhetoric of the Accord but not its critical elements. “The Accord, among other things, obligates its members to make the necessary funds available to fix unsafe factories. The Wal-Mart/Gap-led plan, called the Alliance, does not. Further, the obligation of the Alliance member retailers is limited to no more than $1 million per year, which is used for activities such as training, worker hotlines, and spot inspections, but not for remediation of building deficiencies. Notwithstanding that three-fifths of the garment factories are vulnerable to collapse, according to Bangladeshi engineers, the single effort undertaken by the Alliance to help with remediation is a strictly optional program to make “affordable capital” available to factories. Indeed, the primary purpose of the Alliance appears to be to limit the retailers’ liability – and therefore their responsibility – in ways that the Accord would not. “The Accord is fully-enforceable. The Alliance plan, on the other hand, appears to have only one aspect subject to binding arbitration, namely the commitment to make an annual pay-in. Even the obligation to conduct inspections is not subject to arbitration, with the only consequence of that being ejection from the plan. There is, further, no apparent obligation to cease sourcing from dangerous factories. We fail to see how this will achieve a different result than the previous decades of voluntary corporate social responsibility plans that these companies have run in the past and that have utterly failed to prevent the pervasive, systemic, and profound worker safety and rights problems we see in Bangladesh today. “Our concern is that under this plan, there can be a continuation of a business model for ready-made garments that drives sweatshop conditions in Bangladesh. Cut-throat competition among factories to keep costs low without regard to working conditions, spurred in great part by unsustainable pricing pressures from retailers, will continue the race to the bottom. “There are other apparent shortcomings to the Alliance plan, including limited public transparency as to the results of inspections. The results of those inspections will be stored in a proprietary database accessible only to the brands and retailers. Only summaries will be made public. Meanwhile, the Accord requires full public transparency on the results of inspections. There is no binding right for workers to refuse unsafe work, which the Accord provides. “These factors, as well as the lack of involvement of any worker groups in the formulation or enforcement of the Alliance plan, are also cause for serious concern. “The Wal-Mart/GAP-led plan is a missed opportunity to improve the disastrous conditions of millions of workers – mostly young, poor women – who make clothes for Western consumers.” ###
07.09.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the GOP’s obstruction of the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Earlier today, Speaker Boehner announced that House Republicans would hold yet another – the 38th – vote to repeal the health law: Republicans are engaged in a hypocritical, dead-end attack on health care reform, as exemplified by the Majority Leader’s statement today that in postponing the employer mandate the President ‘came down on the side of big business, but left the American people out in the cold.’ In state after state, many Republicans are trying to thwart a Medicaid expansion without which millions of the most vulnerable Americans won’t have access to health coverage. And in Washington House Republicans are now planning the 38th vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act and preparing a bill aimed at undercutting health care reform by trying to connect it to the troubles at the IRS. All of this when the nation is asking House Republicans to work with House Democrats to find common ground.” ###
06.27.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member George Miller (D-CA) issued the following joint statement after the Obama administration announced that it will suspend Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) trade benefits for Bangladesh. “Given the deteriorating conditions for worker rights in Bangladesh, President Obama’s decision to suspend GSP trade benefits for Bangladesh is an appropriate and welcome step. While this suspension impacts less than 1 percent of the exports from Bangladesh to the United States – notably the United States excludes garments from GSP – this decision sends a strong message that Bangladesh must take serious and concrete action to improve the situation on the ground. We expect this decision will be viewed with interest by others considering similar action, such as the European Union. “There is a path forward for Bangladesh to restore GSP benefits. Our hope is that this suspension will not be permanent. It has been taken at the same time that the U.S. and world community is committed to helping Bangladesh strengthen fire and buildings safety, and meet internationally recognized standards for labor rights, such as the right to form unions and bargain for more than the $38 per month minimum wage. “Bangladesh must assure acceptable conditions at work, by enforcing its building and fire safety codes. It must afford workers the right to refuse to work in unsafe buildings, threatened by fire or collapse, without fear of blacklisting or loss of a paycheck. They must defend workers from employer retaliation and brutality if they try to register a union and collectively bargain. The government must end efforts to harass and frivolously prosecute those who try to help workers organize and exercise their rights. They must assure workers in Export Processing Zones have the same rights to freedom of association as those outside these zones. And, the government of Bangladesh must fully investigate and answer the question of who ordered the murder of Aminul Islam, a prominent worker’s rights advocate. When Bangladesh begins to take these fundamental steps, we are confident the U.S. will restore GSP benefits.” The suspension of GSP for Bangladesh, in response to the AFL-CIO’s longstanding petition, comes as many major U.S. retailers and fashion brands refuse to be part of an enforceable fire and building safety accord. Reps. Miller and Levin will continue to push these U.S. corporations to undertake fully enforceable commitments to sourcing from Bangladesh under conditions that ensure that workers have basic health and safety protections and the right to refuse to work factories that are unsafe. ###
06.27.2013	We are here today to learn about the corrective action that the Internal Revenue Service has taken to address mismanagement in processing of tax-exempt applications. Mr. Werfel. Welcome to the Ways and Means Committee. I am glad to see in your 30-day report that you have instituted management changes that span the entire IRS management chain. I see from your report that these changes reach into the Exempt Organizations Division and the team responsible for determinations on applications for tax exempt status. I’m also interested in your recommendations for obtaining greater effectiveness within the IRS with respect to better early warning systems and risk management. We look forward to hearing your testimony on your new Enterprise Risk Management Program, which I understand will improve IRS accountability and responsiveness to stakeholders, such as Congress. As your report makes clear, there was clear mismanagement on the part of the IRS Exempt Organizations Division in processing these tax-exemption applications. The Initial Assessment and Plan of Action appear to be a solid roadmap to addressing the problems and we encourage you to actively pursue this plan. But for our Committee, which launched this investigation on a bipartisan basis, the backdrop for today’s hearing is the troubling new information that has come to light about the report issued by the Treasury Inspector General of Tax Administration. This week we learned for the first time that three key items: (1) the screening lists used by the IRS included the term “progressives”; (2) progressive groups were among the 298 applications that TIGTA reviewed in their audit and received heightened scrutiny; and (3) the Inspector General did not research how the term “progressives” was added to the screening lists or how those cases were handled by a different group of specialists in the IRS. The failure of the IG’s audit to acknowledge these facts is a fundamental flaw in the foundation of the investigation and the public’s perception of this issue. I wrote to the IG and asked him to explain these omissions. And all Committee Democrats have asked today, Mr. Chairman, that you ask Mr. George to return to the Committee to provide the appropriate context for his report and answer questions under oath regarding all of these matters. Our committee, in its oversight role, has an obligation to fully understand the manner in which the Inspector General conducted his audit, and at what direction. Deeply troubling is that when asked about the new information that has come to light, the Treasury Inspector General's office initially said in media reports that “our audit report answered the questions it was asked to address” and that House Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa had specifically requested that investigators “narrowly focus on tea party organizations.” We asked TIGTA about this in a letter, and TIGTA responded that “many of the press reports are not accurate.” If some of the press reports were accurate, TIGTA’s initial explanation of the scope of the audit is inconsistent with the description of the IG’s audit work in the 2013 Audit Plan and the stated objective on the first page of the May 14, 2013 audit report. The stated objective was “to determine whether allegations were founded that the IRS: 1) targeted specific groups applying for tax-exempt status, 2) delayed processing of targeted groups’ applications, and 3) requested unnecessary information from targeted groups.” The IG’s failure to be forthcoming in the audit and at Congressional Hearings, even when asked directly if there was a screening list for “progressive” and whether progressive groups were included among the 298 applications reviewed by TIGTA, has contributed to the distortion of this entire investigation, including use of innuendo and totally unsubstantiated assertions of White House involvement. Democrats have condemned the singling out of Tea Party by name. I hope our colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle will now join us in condemning the use of the term “progressives” on the screening lists and the failure of the IG to be forthcoming with this and other Congressional Committees. We have also been fully supportive of letting the facts lead where they may. None of us – including the Acting IRS Commissioner – can describe how an application was processed once it was screened. I caution my colleagues from jumping to conclusions until we know all of the facts. Searching for the facts is the only way we are going to get back on the course that I hope is our mutual goal: fixing the problems at the IRS and restoring the trust of the American people. ###
06.26.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin, in a follow-up letter today to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, said he is “deeply troubled” by the inspector general office’s recent statements that it narrowly focused on the treatment of tea party organizations at the request of Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, which contradicts the stated objective laid out on the first page of the IRS audit as well as previous statements from the inspector general. The IG’s office told reporters yesterday that it restricted its audit to the review of the IRS’ handling of tea party groups at the direction of Chairman Issa. What’s more, it said it was not aware of the “Be On the Look Out” lists including the term “progressives.” Ways and Means Committee Democrats on Monday made public every BOLO provided by the IRS. “There is increasing evidence that the May 14, 2013 audit was fundamentally flawed and that your handling of it has failed to meet the necessary test of objectivity and forthrightness,” Ranking Member Levin wrote in the letter. A PDF copy of the letter is available here, and text is below: J. Russell George Inspector General for Tax Administration 1401 H Street, NW Suite 469 Washington, DC 20005 Dear Inspector General George: Since sending the attached letter to you on Tuesday, June 24, 2013, I am deeply troubled by public statements made by your office. At first your office issued the following statement: “TIGTA’s audit focused on the criteria the IRS used to select cases for expanded review for potential political campaign intervention. The “Be On the Look Out” listings discussed in our report were the ones used to refer cases for this type of scrutiny…” Then these statements were made to and reported by the following news outlets: CNN: Dana Bash: “An Inspector General spokesman responded that he focused on conservatives because that’s what the Republican led committee asked him to do.” NPR: “So why did the IG release a 50-page audit with no mention of progressives being targeted too? A spokeswoman for the inspector general says that’s outside of the scope of the audit, which was originally requested by Issa. …. The spokeswoman says the IG was asked to look at the targeting and treatment of tea party groups and that’s exactly what the audit did and not much more. Another reason progressives weren’t mentioned, the IG spokeswoman tells NPR, investigators were not aware of any BOLOs listing progressive organizations when conducting the review.” POLITICO: “Our audit report answered the questions it was asked to address. Other questions that are now being raised are the subject of additional review,” a TIGTA spokeswoman said. HUFFINGTON POST: “As for why the report failed to mention that progressive groups, along with tea party groups, had been placed on IRS so-called Be On The Lookout lists for special scrutiny, Karen Kraushaar, the Communications Director at the Treasury Inspector General's office, said investigators had been constrained by their mission statement. House Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) had specifically requested that investigators ‘narrowly focus on tea party organizations.’” These new disclosures are not consistent with the description of your audit work in the FY 2013 Audit Plan that failed to disclose that you were only looking for Tea Party organizations and not all potential political activities: “Consistency in Identifying and Reviewing Applications for Tax-Exempt Status Involving Political Advocacy Issues (FY 2012 – Work in Process – Audit Number: 201210022) Audit Objective: Assess the consistency of the EO function’s identification and review of applications for tax-exempt status involving potential political advocacy issues.” They are also not consistent with the stated objective on the first page of the May 14, 2013 audit report which was “to determine whether allegations were founded that the IRS: 1) targeted specific groups applying for tax-exempt status, 2) delayed processing of targeted groups’ applications, and 3) requested unnecessary information from targeted groups.” There is no mention of your audit being limited to only one political side—Tea Party and conservative organizations. The report further states: “This audit was initiated based on concerns expressed by members of Congress and reported in the media regarding the IRS’ treatment of organizations applying for tax-exempt status.” There is no mention here that the audit was being performed at the direction of Chairman Issa, that he told you to “narrowly focus on Tea Party organizations,” or that you were only looking at media reports regarding the IRS’ treatment of conservative groups. There are media reports of the IRS’ treatment of liberal organizations and even of organizations affiliated with the Democratic Party who were denied tax-exempt status. Appendix VII of the audit report states: “The following chart illustrates a timeline of events from February 2010 through July 2012 involving the identification and processing of potential political cases.” There is no mention here that the timeline is narrowly focused on Tea Party and conservative organizations. Failing to make this clear in these documents and at Congressional Hearings even when asked directly has been fully misleading. It has contributed to the distortion of this entire investigation, including use of innuendo and totally unsubstantiated assertions of White House involvement. Further, as described in my initial letter, the audit failed to acknowledge that the term “progressives” was used on the BOLOs, and failed to acknowledge that liberal groups were among the 298 applications that you reviewed for the audit. On page 10, the audit states: “We reviewed all 298 applications that had been identified as potential political cases as of May 31, 2012.” Yet, when repeatedly asked at Congressional hearings, you stated that you could not tell if liberal groups were included in the 298. On page 8, the audit report includes a chart that fails to note that liberal organizations were included in the 298. Finally, I would like to remind you that my office released all of the BOLOs provided to the committees of jurisdiction by the IRS. We released all BOLOs that we received spanning the time period from August 12, 2010 through April 19, 2013. The timeline in your Audit (Figure 5, page 13) started in August 12, 2010 and ended in May, 2012. Since, the term “progressive” was included on the BOLOs, please explain to me how it is conceivable that “investigators were not aware of any BOLOs listing progressive organizations when conducting the review” as stated above. Mr. George, Congress created TIGTA to be an “independent and objective” unit to conduct and supervise audits and investigations into tax administration. Implicit in the word “objective” is a duty to be forth-coming. There is increasing evidence that the May 14, 2013 audit was fundamentally flawed and that your handling of it has failed to meet the necessary test of objectivity and forthrightness. Given the urgency of this matter, I ask that you respond accordingly. Sincerly,
06.25.2013	Opening Statement of Ranking Member Sander Levin Hearing on Tax Reform and Residential Real Estate (Remarks as Prepared) The topic before us is an important one. The federal government – through the tax code – has been involved in promoting homeownership for over a century. Let’s be clear. There are many egregious loopholes in the tax code. But the main provisions incentivizing home ownership are policies, not loopholes. The failure to differentiate which is which – between policies and real loopholes – has led to facile proposals. Among them are proposals that begin without the mortgage interest or any other deductions or proposals that simply pick a much lower top tax rate then present law without any suggestions as to how to fill the trillions in lost revenue that would result. Such proposals have failed to take into account some basic facts, including the growing income gap. And they have failed to consider whether policies are significant for a strong middle class or mainly for very wealthy families. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, two-thirds (70%) of the benefit of the mortgage interest deduction goes to households earning less than $200,000 a year. Less than a third of the benefit (30%) goes to those who make more than that. By comparison, the reduced rate for capital gains almost exclusively benefits the very wealthy. More than 70% of the benefit of that lower rate flows to people making more than $1 million a year. Just 12% goes to those making less than $200,000. These tax policies deserve serious consideration, beyond the easy rhetoric about simply broadening the base and reducing rates. I hope that the hearing today will be a step in that direction. ###
06.25.2013	The Internal Revenue Service today provided Congressional investigators with new information that shows that the term “progressives” was included on the IRS “Be On the Look Out” (BOLO) lists used to screen tax-exemption applications. The so-called BOLO lists were previously known to have included criteria singling out conservative organizations -- this is the first evidence, however, that the lists included "progressives" as an identifier. Separately, Ways and Means Committee Democratic staff has now verified that the list of 298 organizations reviewed by TIGTA included liberal organizations. Linked here is a copy of the November 2010 BOLO. We will be releasing additional BOLOs as they are received from the IRS. In response to the new information, which is based on a Ways and Means Committee investigation of the Internal Revenue Service's handling of tax-exemption applications, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Levin today is taking the following actions: Writing a letter to Treasury Inspector General J. Russell George requesting that he explain why he released an audit report on May 14 that omits vital information regarding the processing of tax-exemption applications by the IRS and why he subsequently failed to disclose this information in congressional hearings. Requesting that Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp hold a hearing where the Inspector General can explain the glaring omission in his audit report. Requesting that the interviews conducted to date be reevaluated and possibly supplemented in light of the information learned today. “The audit served as the basis and impetus for a wide range of Congressional investigations and this new information shows that the foundation of those investigations is flawed in a fundamental way,” Rep. Levin said. The November 2010 BOLO makes clear the following: The “Be On the Look Out” lists contained the word “Progressives.” In May 2013, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (“TIGTA”) released an audit report stating that the IRS used “inappropriate criteria” to process tax-exemption applications. The Inspector General only disclosed in the audit report that the “Be On the Look Out” lists used by the IRS to screen tax-exemption applications for processing contained the name “Tea Party.” Based on our investigation, it has become clear that the Inspector General failed to inform the Congress that the following category also appears on the same BOLOs that contain the “Tea Party” criteria and even appears on the BOLOs after the “Tea Party” criteria had been removed: ###
06.17.2013	This Committee – on a bipartisan basis – takes seriously its oversight role and we are fully committed to ensuring an IRS that serves the American people fairly and efficiently. What is now completely clear is that the management and oversight of the agency’s handling of tax exemption applications have completely failed the American people. As we now know from the Inspector General’s audit, the agency used totally inappropriate criteria in its review of tax exemption applications, singling out organizations for review based on their name or political views rather than their actual activities. These criteria changed four times over two years with little management review or oversight. Applications sat for years. Work stopped for 13 months while one department waited to hear back from another. Questions were asked that were not necessary. Again, no oversight, no accountability. All of us are angry at this on behalf of the nation. And, we are determined to get answers to our questions about how this happened to ensure it does not happen again. Finally, throughout this time, the IRS leadership has demonstrated a total disregard for the oversight role of Congress and this Committee. Former IRS Commissioner Shulman testified in front of us in March 2012 and said that “no targeting” was going on. Two months later he was briefed on the IG’s investigation and was fully informed that indeed singling out by name had occurred on his watch. He had an obligation to return to this Committee and set the record straight. So did Mr. Miller. Neither fulfilled their obligations. A little more than a week ago, Lois Lerner was in front of our Oversight Subcommittee. She serves as the Director of the Exempt Organization division and she has been directly involved in this matter. Yet she failed to disclose what she knew to this committee, choosing instead to do so at an ABA conference two days later. This is wholly unacceptable, and one of the reasons we believe Ms. Lerner should be relieved of her duties. Chairman Camp and I put together this hearing on a bipartisan basis to get the facts. We must seek the truth, not political gain. We look forward to full and forthcoming answers to our questions today. ###
06.17.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles B. Rangel today issued the following statements in response to the announcement that the United States and the European Union (EU) will begin negotiations on a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (T-TIP) agreement: LEVIN: “The launch of trade negotiations with Europe today is an opportunity for our negotiators to succeed in removing tariff and regulatory barriers to U.S. exports, while strengthening protections for our consumers and the environment. These negotiations also provide an opportunity to develop new rules and a new framework for global trade, promoting an equitable and market-based economic model. That model can serve as a viable alternative to the disturbing trend emerging in some countries toward tighter state control over trade flows and larger support for state-owned and state-controlled enterprises which disadvantages U.S. businesses." RANGEL: “The American people share many principles and values with the people of Europe. A transatlantic trade agreement can help bring us even closer together. Our ambitions should be high, and there are some regulatory areas where we can help workers and businesses by eliminating unnecessary differences. At the same time, we must be sure that any resulting changes maintain, rather than diminish, high levels of protection for our people.” ###
06.13.2013	Good morning and thank you all for coming to testify today on this important subject. I am glad we are looking at the issue of international taxation today. I believe it highlights the need for tax reform to be about so much more than just lower tax rates or labels like worldwide and territorial. We live in a global economy. That is not going to change. There have been and will continue to be major benefits from globalization – which has occurred more rapidly in recent decades than in all previous ones combined. It has been furthered by dramatic new technologies that quickly spread beyond national borders. But globalization often can spread its benefits in very uneven and sometimes harmful patterns. Indeed, it presents increasing challenges to tax policies. That is what we must confront. It is the crux of what we are discussing today. Entities that truly have a home base in our nation, and experience the many benefits and advantages as a result, are using their presence or their pro-forma presence in other places to lower their tax bills. Often the effect is so dramatic that it is difficult for the average taxpayer to believe that such tax avoidance is legal. The fact that it is – and is widespread – only highlights the urgent need to confront it. That truth was on vivid display last month when the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations revealed the complex structures and intra-group transactions that some multinational corporations employ in order to shift profits offshore in an effort to avoid U.S. taxes. The investigation illustrated how Apple’s international tax planning techniques have enabled the tech giant to dramatically lower its tax bill. One example showed how an Irish entity established by Apple Inc. received tens of billions of dollars of income with no tax residence, and as a result, paid no taxes. Other major US corporations like Microsoft, HP and Google have also been shown to use legal tax avoidance techniques to shift income overseas to lower their U.S. tax liability. The problem is not isolated to the United States. Jurisdictions throughout the world – particularly European Union member nations – are realizing that companies are engaging in complicated structures that often have no economic value or substance simply to avoid taxes. The response is anger – from businesses that compete to citizens who are facing deep cuts in important government programs. The challenge of ending massive tax avoidance must be at the forefront of any tax reform effort worth its salt. I believe that will be confirmed by today’s testimony. No country can compete with a zero percent tax rate. Any tax reform must end the use of loopholes and base erosion techniques, including addressing how to curtail the shifting of jobs and profits offshore. Our current tax code creates incentives for multinational enterprises to shift money overseas, and with that money goes jobs. The days of so-called stateless income and double non-taxation must end. We cannot participate in a global “race to the bottom” that results in taxing jurisdictions being the big losers. Our tax code must not only promote American competitiveness at home and abroad, it must also promote domestic job creation that strengthens economic security for workers and businesses here in the U.S. Reform of our international tax rules cannot be done on the backs of small businesses, domestic companies and individual taxpayers. I look forward to hearing from the witnesses and learning more about their ideas to reform this area of the law. I appreciate the time and resources you’ve spent to help inform this Committee on this complex and sometimes opaque area of the tax law. This discussion is an important step in reforming our international tax system. ###
06.12.2013	The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has granted final approval to the Lake St. Clair Strategic Implementation Plan. The plan, which includes scores of specific restoration recommendations, was signed by Assistant Secretary of the Army Jo-Ellen Darcy on Monday, clearing a critical hurdle that will provide an important leg up as Lake St. Clair restoration projects seek federal funding. The plan has formally been in the works since 2007, when Rep. Sander Levin and Sen. Carl Levin wrote a provision into the 2007 Water Resources Development Act that called for the Corps of Engineers to lead a partnership of Lake St. Clair stakeholders in developing a Strategic Implementation Plan (SIP) to come up with specific projects to implement the more than 100 individual recommendations contained in the 2005 Management Plan. The SIP and the process that created it are significant because they took the very general recommendations and goals contained in the 2005 Management Plan and provided a structure for Lake St. Clair stakeholders to move forward with specific restoration projects. The SIP includes scores of specific restoration project recommendations in areas such as conserving and restoring habitat; managing storm water; and using technology to preserve and protect the Lake St. Clair. Approval of the SIP also gives Lake St. Clair restoration projects a leg up when it comes to federal funding. The 2007 legislation that set the SIP process in motion contained a $20 million authorization to carry out projects developed by the implementation plan. Many Lake St. Clair restoration projects are also eligible for funding through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) program, which was started three years ago by President Obama. The actual amount of money available for restoration projects depends greatly on how much funding Congress provides to the Corps of Engineers and the GLRI in their annual appropriations bills. “Today we take the next big step toward the full restoration of Lake St. Clair,” Rep. Sander Levin said. “Lake St. Clair and its watershed are worth protecting, and this implementation gives us a new tool to move forward with this effort.” “I commend the Army Corps of Engineers and the numerous partners in this effort as their work will help ensure that projects are implemented in a coordinated manner and prioritized to reflect shared goals,” Sen. Carl Levin said. “The St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair are resources we all celebrate, and their restoration and protection will enable future generations to enjoy this cherished resource.” "We are especially pleased to enter into the next phase of developing ecosystem restoration and protection plans for the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair," said Lt. Col. Robert Ells, district engineer for the Detroit District of the Army Corps of Engineers. "The Corps is working with an incredibly energetic, diverse and enthusiastic partnership committed to protecting this precious resource that people who live and play in this region enjoy." To view the plan ####
06.10.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement on the President’s nomination of Jason Furman to be the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers: I applaud President Obama’s choice of Jason Furman to be the next chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. Jason’s extensive experience and commitment to public service make him an ideal choice to succeed Alan Krueger. Jason brings with him an immense knowledge of the American economic landscape and proven ability on economic issues. I am confident that his experience and his leadership abilities will continue to serve the President well in this new capacity. I urge the Senate to quickly take up and approve his nomination.” ###
06.06.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement on the letter sent to President Obama by 230 House members to insist on new rules against currency manipulation be included in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. Last year, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 1276) garnered 234 co-sponsors after an almost identical bill passed with broad bipartisan support (348-79) in 2010. Ranking Member Levin co-introduced the legislation again in March, with 100 co-sponsors. With this letter, a majority of the U.S. House has sent a clear message that there is no point in negotiating a TPP agreement to eliminate import duties if countries are allowed to effectively reimpose those duties by manipulating their currencies, even before the ink is dry on the agreement text,” said Ranking Member Levin. “We must proceed on multiple fronts, through legislation and trade agreements, with the ultimate goal of an enforceable, global agreement on currency.” BACKGROUND The IMF currently has clear rules on currency manipulation but no effective enforcement mechanism. The WTO has a strong enforcement mechanism but not everyone agrees on what the WTO currency rules mean. In the TPP negotiations, the Administration must insist that the agreement combine clear rules -- based on existing guidelines that all countries have already accepted through the IMF – with strong enforcement. The full text of the letter sent to President Obama today can be found below and online: June 6, 2013 President Barack Obama The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: As the United States continues to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership, it is imperative that the agreement address currency manipulation. Exchange rates strongly influence trade flows, and, in recent years, currency manipulation has contributed to the U.S. trade deficit and cost us American jobs. Incorporating currency provisions in the agreement will strengthen our ability to combat these unfair trade practices and help to create a level playing field for American workers, businesses, and farmers. Undervalued exchange rates allow other countries to boost exports of their products and to impede exports of ours. They also contribute to trade imbalances and market access limitations that make it difficult for U.S. companies to compete in foreign countries. According to the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a minimum of one million American jobs have been shipped overseas as a result of currency manipulation alone. The consequences are not singular to the U.S.; misaligned currencies are distorting the entire global economy. Despite U.S. efforts to address currency manipulation at the G-20, major currencies remain significantly undervalued. Including currency disciplines in the TPP is consistent with and will bolster our ongoing efforts to respond to these trade-distorting policies. It will also raise TPP to the 21st century agreement standard set by the Administration. More importantly, it will create a level playing field for American businesses and workers and prevent more U.S. jobs from being shipped overseas. Thank you for your consideration of this letter. We look forward to working with you to address undervalued exchange rates in the TPP agreement. Sincerely, ###
06.05.2013	Dear Mr. President: On the eve of the 100th anniversary of our National Park System, we invite you to work with us to formulate and execute a bipartisan, dynamic, and effective initiative to commemorate the national park centennial and prepare our national parks for their second century of service to the American people. In three years, the nation will mark the 100th Anniversary of the creation of the modern National Park System. Since the National Park Service Organic Act was signed into law in 1916, the Park System has grown to include splendid examples of America’s natural and scenic heritage, as well as places of historic importance to our country. Support for the national parks is an issue most American’s agree is important – particularly as our parks are enjoyed and utilized by persons across our country regardless of their background. Past presidents and congresses have worked together at key times to repair, improve and enhance parks and facilities, to develop creative ways of connecting the American people with our national treasures and to better preserve our parks for future generations. The national park centennial provides an opportunity to reinvigorate the national parks for their second century of service. We look forward to working with you and your staff to build on momentum from the 100th anniversary of the National Parks System to find a sustainable path forward for our national parks. Sincerely, To view the original letter and a complete list of signatures
06.04.2013	At our first Hearing, and every day since, each of us on a bipartisan basis have condemned the actions within the IRS exempt organization division and condemned the actions by the IRS leadership who failed to accurately and adequately inform Congress after they had all of the facts of what had occurred between 2010 and 2012. We have all said that the singling out by name was wrong. The President said it was “outrageous.” The delays of over 13 months in processing applications were wrong and the fact that the applications of some organizations have been pending for over three years is inexcusable. The inability to get clear guidance on how to measure political activity was wrong. And, the burdensome questions and inquiries were totally inappropriate. The handling of these applications was gross mismanagement by the IRS exempt organization division. That’s why the day after the report was issued I called for Acting Commissioner Steve Miller and the Exempt Organization Division Director Lois Lerner to be replaced. Since our Hearing, progress has been made to address the malfeasance that occurred within the IRS exempt organization division and to ensure that all of the facts come to the surface and that all identified problems are corrected so that the confidence of the American people may be restored. - Steve Miller resigned as the IRS Commissioner - The President appointed Daniel Werfel as the acting IRS Commissioner and Secretary Lew instructed him to immediately conduct a 30-day review and to implement the recommendations in the IG’s report. - Lois Lerner, the Director of the Exempt Organization division, was put on Administrative Leave by Commissioner Werfel. - Commissioner Werfel appointed David Fisher as the Chief Risk Officer. Mr. Fisher previously served as the Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Financial Officer at GAO. - And yesterday, he appointed a new Deputy Commissioner and Chief of Staff, both with significant managerial and administrative experience. To the individuals testifying before us, the organizations they represent, and all the others who were caught up in this malfeasance, you are owed an apology. We say to you that each of us is committed to doing our part to ensure this does not happen again. The IG’s report includes a number of key facts that we should keep in mind today: The IG determined that the applications of 298 organizations were set aside for further review. One-third of the applications that were set aside – 96 – contained the name, “Tea Party,” “9/12,” or “Patriots.” While the remaining 202 applications did not. The IRS released a list of 176 advocacy organizations that have been approved for tax-exempt status through May 9, 2013. The news organization Tax Analysts did an analysis of the list released by the IRS. Its conclusion as to the approved applicants states: “these organizations are the following: 46 with Tea Party, Patriots, or 9/12 in their name, 76 other conservative organizations, 48 non-conservative organizations, and six organizations about which we can make no determination.” This is not a Democratic or Republican issue. It should not be. This issue is a direct reflection on highly inappropriate actions within the IRS Exempt Organization division and totally incompetent management within and over that division. The TIGTA report highlights more problems than the singling out by name. The report found that IRS employees were screening applications that had no indications of significant political activities while closing cases that did have such indications. To qualify for tax-exempt status as social welfare organizations, the tax code provides that an organization must be operated “exclusively” for the promotion of social welfare. The regulations, however, state that an organization will qualify for tax-exempt status if it operated “primarily” for social welfare purposes. Overall the data indicate an emerging use of the social welfare designation under Section 501(c) 4 to engage in political activity. 501(c) 4s spent $92 million in the 2010 election. They spent $254 million in the 2012 election – the second largest category of organizations making political expenditures — equal to that of political parties. One recommendation in the TIGTA report was that the IRS and the Department of Treasury include guidance on how to measure the “primary activity” of social welfare organizations be included for consideration in their priority guidance plan. We urge them to move with all deliberate speed to implement this recommendation. In closing, I thank the witnesses for being here today and discussing your experiences. Please be assured that we take seriously our responsibility to ensure that Congress gets to the bottom of what happened, that those responsible are held accountable, and that safeguards are in place to ensure that this does not happen again. ###
05.29.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office published a new report on the Distribution of Major Tax Expenditures in the Individual Income Tax System: “The CBO report underscores the need to go beyond the rhetoric of lowering tax rates without indication of how that would be achieved or the implications for economic growth and tax equity. The report confirms distributional analyses that the Joint Committee on Taxation provided to Ways and Means Democrats two years ago that showed how some tax preferences decisively benefit only the very wealthy while others are significant for middle-income taxpayers. The preferences that benefit the very wealthy highlight the ability to obtain the needed revenues to address the sequester and achieve a balanced approach to tax reform.” AMONG THE KEY FINDINGS: Employer-Sponsored Health Insurance “The exclusion of employers’ contributions for health care, health insurance premiums, and long-term-care insurance premiums for their employees is the single largest tax expenditure in the individual income tax code; it is estimated to reduce tax liabilities by $260 billion (or $140 billion excluding the effects on payroll taxes) in 2013.” CBO estimates that 66 percent of the benefit accrues to the bottom 80 percent of the income distribution. Mortgage Interest on Owner-Occupied Residences “The deduction for interest paid on mortgages for owner-occupied residences, which CBO estimates will equal $70 billion in 2013, is the [second]-largest itemized deduction. It is also the least tilted toward the top of the income distribution, in part because the law caps the maximum mortgage amount on which interest payments can be deducted (generally limited to the first $1 million of mortgage debt) and in part because mortgage debt rises less rapidly with income than do other deductible expenses.” Preferential Tax Rates [for Capital Gains and Dividends] “Virtually all of the benefits from the preferential tax rates on those sources of income accrue to the top quintile of households. The tax expenditure for that group will equal 1.7 percent of their after-tax income in 2013, CBO estimates. Within the top quintile, the tax expenditure is heavily concentrated in the top 1 percent of households, because a large share of investment income in the form of capital gains realizations and dividends accrues to those taxpayers. The top 1 percent of households will receive more than two-thirds of the total value of the benefit in 2013, CBO estimates, which will equal 5.3 percent of their after-tax income.” ###
05.23.2013	The Rana Plaza factory collapse on April 24 killed more than 1,100 people and has highlighted the urgent need to improve worker rights and working conditions in Bangladesh. The tragedy repeats what has become a serious and disturbing pattern – labor and workplace laws are flouted and workers’ safety and rights denied in the pursuit of lucrative export opportunities primarily to Europe and the United States. Unfortunately, the factory workers – most of them young women and mothers – are left to pay the terrible consequences with their lives. On May 16, Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin and Committee Member Joe Crowley joined with Leader Nancy Pelosi, Whip Steny Hoyer, Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member George Miller, and other senior Democrats in sending letters to nine major U.S. retailers calling upon them to join a broadening global coalition supporting a May 13 Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh, developed by the Worker Rights Consortium and a number of key stakeholders. The accord has won the support of labor rights organizations and unions around the world, and it has gained significant momentum among buyers, particularly in Europe. The accord has also recieved the endorsement of the International Labor Organization. Separately, Ways and Means Committee Democrats and House Leaders have urged the Bangladeshi authorities to join in a comprehensive, concrete, and coordinated plan to ensure worker safety and rights in Bangladesh.
05.21.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today after the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations held a hearing on Offshore Profit Shifting and the U.S. Tax Code: Today’s hearing is further dramatic evidence that tax reform must be about so much more than simply lowering tax rates. Whatever the rates, there will be efforts to use the cracks in our tax laws in an unfair attempt to pay as little tax as possible. Tax reform must address how to curtail the shifting of jobs and profits offshore and end the use of loopholes, which place an additional burden on other American businesses and individual taxpayers.” ###
05.14.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement on the report issued today by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA): "The report by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration highlights total mismanagement at the IRS in handling tax exemption applications and shows that the agency's employees were very wrong in using inappropriate criteria to single out organizations for review by name or political views rather than the actual activities of organizations. Deeply troubling was the disturbing lack of management oversight of the screening process, and the terribly incompetent review process that allowed some applications to sit for years while granting approvals to others that had indications of significant political activities. The inconsistencies in information and the failure by the IRS to provide Congress, in its oversight role, full information during this process is completely unacceptable. Leadership and key staff at the IRS had an obligation to provide updated information to Congress and they failed to do so. “The IG report states that no one outside of the IRS influenced the development of the inappropriate criteria used to screen applications. As indicated in the President's and Secretary Lew's statements the TIGTA Report's recommendations must be immediately implemented and those responsible for this malfeasance must be held fully accountable.�? ###
05.09.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on the House floor in opposition to the Pay China First Act: I want to state the facts here so everybody understands them. We have called this – the Speaker has in essence – the Pay China first and so many others except for Social Security beneficiaries last. And here's the reason: Of the prioritized debt covered by this bill, 47% is foreign owned. And China bondholders are the largest portion of that foreign ownership. So essentially what this bill says is, ok, let's pay China and the other foreign bondholders first, not American troops, not disabled veterans, not physicians, not providers who treat Medicare patients, not small businesses holding contract obligations from the United States. School lunch programs come secondary, medical research, Pell Grants, taxpayers due refunds and interestingly, other federal trust funds holding treasury bonds, Medicare, deposit insurance, etc., etc. That's the fact. That's the fact. So why do this? Well, Republicans say let's do this because of the importance of paying the bonds in terms of our economy and in terms of our bond rating. But let me just say a word about bond rating. Here's what Fitch has said: “it is not assured that the Treasury would or legally could prioritize debt service over its myriad of other obligations, including Social Security payments, tax rebates and payments to contractors, employees. Arrears on such obligations would not do anything from a sovereign rating perspective, but very likely prompt downgrade even as debt obligations continued to be met. S&P has already downgraded us and said this: Still sudden cuts that shave off say 6% of the GDP to spending ratio would cause economic panic and could affect ratings.” So why is this being done when a former Bush administration economist said the result is a bloody mess or another Bush administration official said, and I quote, “prioritization is impossible. Is the government really going to be in the position of withholding benefits, salaries, rent, contract payments in order to pay off treasury bondholders?” So why is this being done? It's not going anywhere in the Senate. The president opposes it. I think the reason apparently it's being done is to satisfy some within the Republican conference or maybe to try to provide some leverage in terms of bargaining with the Democrats. This is playing with fire, with the economy of this country. Those who vote for it, playing with this fire, are going to burn themselves, and most significantly, the economy of the United States. I've tried to figure out who the pied piper is of this – the pied piper is of this proposition. It's hard to figure it out, but those who follow that pied piper and the Republican ranks, those who vote for it, essentially are moving towards the cliff, following that pied piper. But worse off, it places this country once again and this economy in danger of going over the cliff. This is not only a mistaken idea, it's really a rotten one. Let's vote no. ###
05.07.2013	Opening Statement of Ranking Member Sander Levin Markup of TANF Waiver Bill At a time when this Committee should be emphasizing a search for opportunities to see if we can find common ground, we have before us a bill that only increases polarization. Today, a regrettable pattern of opposing initiatives put forth by President Obama continues at time when our nation desperately needs more governing and less political positioning. Many in the majority voted on three separate occasions in the past to provide much broader welfare waiver authority than the recent initiative put forward by HHS. The Congressional Research Service has confirmed that all three of those Republican bills – “would have had the effect of allowing TANF work participation standards to be waived.” Republican Governor Gary Herbert of Utah has openly expressed an interest in pursuing a waiver in the TANF program to increase the employment of welfare recipients. In December he said, “campaigns are campaigns, and now it is time to govern.” Instead, we are debating a bill reflecting charges from the Romney presidential campaign that independent fact-finders have confirmed as false. In labeling the distortion made by Gov. Romney and other campaigns during the election a “pants on fire” lie, the Pulitzer-prize winning fact checker, PolitiFact, stated unequivocally: “By granting waivers to states, the Obama administration is seeking to make welfare-to-work efforts more successful, not end them. What’s more, the waivers would apply to individually evaluated pilot programs -- HHS is not proposing a blanket, national change to the welfare law.” Using the same authority that the Clinton Administration used to grant dozens of welfare waivers in the mid-1990's, the Secretary of HHS has said she would consider requests from states to run demonstration projects, but only if the projects increased employment by at least 20 percent. This is an effort to make welfare reform work more – not less – effectively, an effort that I have supported and will continue to support. Governors have said that they could put more people to work if they were able to focus more on outcomes and less on bureaucratic requirements. In allowing waivers to pursue demonstration projects, HHS responded to these Governors by saying – prove it. It would be much better use of our time for this Committee to discuss how we address the sequester. Key issues relating to the sequester fall within this Committee’s jurisdiction. Instead we are spending time and energy on legislation that is based on hyped-up campaign rhetoric. We can do better than that.
04.29.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin on Monday helped launch the Mobilizing Michigan: Protecting Our Kids From Marijuana campaign, a research-based campaign to educate all sectors of the community about the dangers of youth marijuana use. The initiative centers around a comprehensive tool kit developed by the Chippewa Valley Coalition for Youth and Families, working with the Macomb County Office of Substance Abuse, to help coalitions around the state combat youth marijuana abuse. The launch brought together 100 attendees from a broad spectrum of the community – including local community anti-drug coalitions, Macomb Prosecutor Eric Smith and Macomb Sheriff Anthony Wickersham – for a discussion about how the recent decreased perception of risk of Marijuana use is harmful to our youth. Attendees included 25 students, health care professionals and hospitals, chambers of commerce, small businesses, superintendents, school counselors, substance abuse agencies, police chiefs, state representatives, local elected officials, a dozen local anti-drug coalitions from Macomb and Oakland. The tool kit can be found here. Statewide Campaign Says Marijuana Dangerous for Kids April 29, 2013Detroit Free Press | Bill Laitner Leaders of substance-abuse prevention groups launched a statewide campaign to warn young people about marijuana at a meeting Monday in Clinton Township kicked off by U.S. Rep. Sander Levin. Teens are confused about whether marijuana is safe or even beneficial because Michigan voters legalized the drug for medical use in 2008 and other states have approved it for recreational use, said Charlene McGunn, executive director of the Chippewa Valley Coalition for Youth and Families. As more youths use the drug, “we’re going to have a generation of kids underperforming in school and underperforming in life,” McGunn said. Leaders praised efforts by McGunn and others to create information packets for a campaign called Mobilizing Michigan — Protecting Our Kids From Marijuana, with videos and fact sheets for use by teachers, community leaders and faith-based advisers. “I met with Oakland County high school students a month ago (in Birmingham), and they said marijuana was available to them anytime, anywhere, even in school. That’s when I decided: We really need to take this on,” Levin said, standing beside Macomb County Prosecutor Eric Smith and county Sheriff Anthony Wickersham. Levin, a Democrat from Royal Oak, has been a key supporter of funding for community coalitions nationwide. Marijuana use among young people “hasn’t taken off very strongly yet, but it still may,” said Lloyd Johnston, a University of Michigan distinguished research scientist. Use by students nationwide “rose for several years, then leveled off in 2012, and we really don’t know why,” Johnston said. In 2012, 6.5% of graduating seniors nationwide had used marijuana at least 20 times in the last 30 days, compared with 6.0% in 2000, “so it’s definitely up,” said Johnston, cofounder of Monitoring the Future, a study of drug use among school children that surveyed about 46,000 youths in grades 8, 10 and 12 last year. Marijuana use might not harm some adults, but recent research shows that adolescents who use it can suffer serious brain impairment, he said. Kids who were heavy marijuana users in their teens were found in a New Zealand study to have sustained a drop-off of up to eight IQ points by their 30s, he said. Organizers of Monday’s meeting screened attendees and, in a voice mail, turned away Detroiter Tim Beck, a activist for legalizing marijuana for adults, Beck said. So Beck showed up with a suit, tie and false name. “I wanted to know what these people were up to, and they’re doing the right thing,” he said after the meeting. “This is a valuable service to the state because no rational person who believes that marijuana should be regulated like tobacco and alcohol thinks kids should be using any of these substances,” Beck said. To view the original article please click here.
04.24.2013	U.S. Reps. Joe Crowley (D-NY) and Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following joint statement in response to a building collapse in Bangladesh that housed several garment factories. The collapse is reported to have killed nearly 100 people and injured hundreds more. This tragedy comes on the heels of a deadly fire in the Tazreen Fashions garment factory last November that killed nearly 120 people, and other fires since that time. We would like to express our deepest sympathies to the people of Bangladesh. This is an immense tragedy, and our hearts go out the families affected. We appreciate all the first responders and emergency workers who are working to save lives, and express our deepest condolences to the friends and families of those who have lost loved ones. Bangladeshis are a wonderful people, and they are in our thoughts and prayers at this difficult time. This tragedy mandates the need to immediately do more to address safety conditions in Bangladesh’s garment sector in a way that helps Bangladeshi workers and respects their rights. We urge that anyone responsible for these deaths be prosecuted to fullest extent of the law.” ###
04.23.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus announced that he would not seek reelection: Max Baucus has left a lasting mark on the Senate over more than three decades. And for that our nation is better off. We have worked together on key issues, among them when as a team we led the effort to defeat the Bush administration proposal to privatize Social Security. While there were instances of differences on policy, I have always respected his commitment to the people of Montana and appreciated his direct and honest approach. I look forward to continuing to work closely together over the next two years on tax reform and on implementation of the health reform law in whose creation he played a central role.” ###
04.20.2013	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement today after the 11 Trans-Pacific Partnership nations announced its intent to allow Japan into the TPP negotiations: As indicated in the announcement of the formal invitation for Japan to join the TPP negotiations, Japan's participation does underscore the economic significance of TPP. But it also clearly underscores how indispensable it is that during the 90-day period provided for the Administration's consultation with Congress both the problems as well as the opportunities posed by Japan's participation are fully probed. Japan enters TPP negotiations as the largest economy, with totally closed markets in many agricultural markets and in all portions of the automotive market. The need for a thorough discussion at the very onset is highlighted by the statement of the senior Japanese official that 'Japan will aim to secure tariffs on agricultural products.' In automotive, given the huge trade deficit between our two countries and Japan's history of the most closed auto market in the world, and the negative economic consequences of that history, the onus is precisely on Japan to change before receiving any benefit through TPP negotiations. BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS LETTER: Levin’s April 10 Letter to the Administration on Consequences of Japan’s closed market SIDE-BY-SIDE: Japanese and American Auto Markets At a Glance GRAPHIC: Our Massive Auto Trade Deficit with Japan is Growing Even As Japan’s Domestic Economy is Stagnant FACT SHEET: What Do American Businesses and Workers Get Out of Japan Joining TPP? ###
04.16.2013	Request $300 million for Great Lakes Restoration Initiative U.S. Reps. Sander Levin, John Dingell and Dan Benishek are spearheading an effort to persuade the House Appropriations Committee to sustain level funding to continue the important work of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). In a bipartisan letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies, the three Michigan lawmakers and 35 other House members called for $300 million in 2014 for the GLRI, a three-year-old effort to protect, restore and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. A copy of the letter is below. “We’re making real progress on restoring the Great Lakes through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, but there is still a lot more work to do,” said Rep. Levin. “Now is the time for everyone who cares about the Great Lakes to stand together and ensure the Great Lakes get the funding they need.” The GLRI provides funding to address vital environmental issues in the Great Lakes, such as cleaning up contaminated sediments, reducing polluted runoff, mitigating habitat degradation and loss, and addressing invasive species such as the Asian carp. The program has invested over $1 billion in Great Lakes restoration over the last three years. In its budget submission to Congress last week, the Obama Administration requested $300 million in 2014 for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to continue the work, but money is expected to be tight this year, and lawmakers will be confronted with many competing needs when they begin writing the annual spending bills this summer. Of all the Great Lakes states, Michigan has the most to lose if funding for the restoration effort is cut. A recent report prepared by the Great Lakes Commission noted that the “GLRI is well underway in Michigan, with more than $163 million coming into the state to implement 364 local and on-the-ground restoration projects in the first three years.” To see how the GLRI is benefitting Michigan communities, visit https://glc.org/restore/glrimap/ Great Lakes advocacy groups, including the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition and the Alliance for the Great Lakes, helped to highlight the need sustained funding for the GLRI in recent weeks and urged members to join the letter, which was signed by 30 Democrats and 8 Republicans. Michigan House members signing the letter included Sander Levin, John Dingell, Dan Benishek, Gary Peters, John Conyers, and Dan Kildee. Continued bipartisan support for the GLRI reflects a broad recognition that the Great Lakes are both a natural treasure and a vital economic asset for Michigan and the other seven Great Lakes states. The Great Lakes support 1.5 million jobs generating $62 billion annually in wages; provide a home for four million recreational boats and a $16 billion annual boating industry; underpin a $30 billion tourism economy; and create the longest inland deep-draft navigation system in the world, moving 322 million metric tons of cargo annually. The Brookings Institution has projected that fully implementing the regional restoration strategy for the Great Lakes will generate at least $50 billion in long-term economic benefits. The following letter was sent to Chairman Michael K. Simpson and Ranking Member James Moran of the Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations: Dear Chairman Simpson and Ranking Member Moran: As Members of the House who support a strong, healthy and productive Great Lakes region, we respectfully request that you provide $300 million in funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2014 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. We appreciate the Committee’s past efforts to fund this program, and believe Great Lakes restoration needs to remain a priority. The Great Lakes are the world’s largest system of fresh surface water, providing drinking water for more than 30 million Americans. The Great Lakes are also an invaluable environmental and economic resource that produce immeasurable benefits for the region and the nation. The Great Lakes support 1.5 million jobs, generating $62 billion in wages each year. The Great Lakes fishery alone is valued at $7 billion a year. The Lakes also support commerce, agriculture, transportation and tourism, and are home to over 3500 species of plants and animals. At the same time, the Lakes have struggled with invasive species, toxic chemical contamination, habitat loss, and beach closures. We must do everything we can to protect the Great Lakes and combat these clear and present threats. We urge you to support this vital investment in the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. Sincerely, Sander Levin, John Dingell, Dan Benishek, Louise Slaughter, David Joyce, Gwen Moore, Brian Higgins, Gary Peters, John Conyers, Marcia Fudge, Luis Gutierrez, Charles Rangel, Jerrold Nadler, Keith Ellison, Carolyn Maloney, Mark Pocan, Thomas Petri, Sheila Jackson Lee, Jan Schakowsky, Alcee Hastings, Paul Tonko, Steve Israel, Reid Ribble, Dan Kildee, Brad Schneider, Richard Hanna, Christopher Gibson, Ron Kind, Dan Maffei, Tim Walz, Danny Davis, Rick Nolan, Bill Owens, Tim Bishop, Bill Johnson, Collin Peterson, Chris Collins, Andre Carson
04.12.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement today regarding the Obama administration’s announcement concerning Japan’s possible entry into the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations: “U.S. auto companies are a bulwark of the American economy and manufacturing sector and they can compete anywhere in the world when the playing field is level. But the facts are clear that Japan’s market is closed, evidenced by the fact that imports account for just 6 percent of total sales in Japan, compared with nearly half of total sales in the United States and other major auto markets. For decades Japan has had and been using to their economic advantage the most closed auto market in the world, as spelled out in my attached letter to the Administration. As a result, the onus should be on Japan to open their market before receiving any benefit through a trade agreement with the United States. “The package announced by the Administration after consultation with Japan does not provide an adequate basis for Japan’s entry into the Trans-Pacific Partnership. “First, the unilateral low volume increase of 3000 cars is a meaningless gesture by the Japanese given all of the other obstacles to U.S. exports in their market. Indeed, the impenetrability from those obstacles is reflected in the fact that U.S. automakers have not even been fully utilizing the existing quota. “Second, a specific reduction of the U.S. auto and truck tariff should be tied specifically to the market opening performance of Japan in the automotive sector, not to the negotiating decisions of other countries for other product lines. This structure has the disturbing potential of pitting sectors directly against one another. “Third, the absence of any mention of currency is highly problematical. Japan has used currency intervention to give Japanese auto companies one of their most significant unfair competitive advantages, adding tens of billions of dollars to their operating profits for every one-yen drop against the dollar. “I intend to pursue these issues as well as the items described for parallel negotiations in the 90-days during which the Administration will consult with Congress before beginning negotiations with Japan in the TPP.” BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS LETTER: Levin’s April 10 Letter to the Administration on Consequences of Japan’s closed market SIDE-BY-SIDE: Japanese and American Auto Markets At a Glance GRAPHIC: Our Massive Auto Trade Deficit with Japan is Growing Even As Japan’s Domestic Economy is Stagnant FACT SHEET: What Do American Businesses and Workers Get Out of Japan Joining TPP?
04.11.2013	Welcome, Secretary Lew. Congratulations again on your confirmation. I’ve very much enjoyed working with you in the past and have no doubt you will do an excellent job in your new role. You are appearing today to discuss the Administration’s 2014 Budget, which follows those presented earlier by House Republicans, House Democrats and Senate Democrats. Clearly, the Administration’s budget reflects an effort to open up a search for some common ground. Unfortunately, this has been rebuffed in the response of House Republican leadership. The Administration made clear that any search for common ground requires a balanced approach — a combination of budget cuts and additional revenues. The Republican approach is based on imbalance. The tax cuts that Republicans propose in their Budget would leave a $5.7 trillion revenue gap. Yet they have never provided specifics on how they would fill it. What we know is that it would almost certainly require eliminating or dramatically cutting tax provisions that have proven vital to middle- and lower-income families, including the mortgage interest deduction and the exclusion for employer-provided health care. Their budget reaffirms their plans to turn Medicare into a voucher program and repeal the benefit provisions – if not the revenues, which they gladly propose keeping – in ObamaCare. In its budget, the Administration has also come forth with some further ideas on business tax reform, and in doing so, it has highlighted that while lower rates are important, they must not come at the expense of critical investments that American enterprises need to thrive and succeed. I hope that foundation and the theme of tax equity, among others, will guide us as we face the challenge of tax reform – tax reform that is based on reality, not rhetoric. The imbalance in the response from House Republicans is further illustrated – even as we hear today the testimony of the Treasury Secretary – by their unwillingness to agree to appoint conferees to consider the budget bills passed by the House and Senate, in conjunction with the Administration’s budget. This continued Republican embrace of a budget deadlock is all the more worrisome as the sequester continues to unfold and the debt ceiling once again approaches. Indeed, it was made all the more worrisome by the House Republican hearing yesterday that focused on the debt ceiling and the possibility of prioritizing our obligations, all emanating from Congressional actions. We cannot continue on this dangerous path. Hopefully this hearing will serve a constructive opportunity to embrace a different one.
04.10.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after President Obama released his budget proposal for fiscal year 2014: “Unless Republicans are willing to end their radical intransigence, the answer will be continued deadlock instead of the parties and the president seeking common ground through their respective budgets. The result would be further harm from the sequester and another attempt by Republicans to hold the debt ceiling hostage to their unwillingness to pursue a balanced approach to deficit reduction that includes closing tax loopholes and asking the very wealthy to contribute.”
04.05.2013	Congressman Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement regarding the March jobs report and the cuts to unemployment insurance programs because of the sequester: “Republican willingness to stop governing and simply let the sequester roll over our economy threatens to stall the economic recovery. The unwillingness of Congressional Republicans to work toward a sensible alternative to the sequester hits the economy and the unemployed with a double dose of bad news. First, it is threatening to stall a labor market that had been improving. And second, the sequester directly cuts unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed by over 10 percent. This further hurts Americans who are already suffering, and it undercuts our economic recovery.” Background: This is the first week that Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) will be reduced under the sequester. (Regular, state-provided benefits, usually the first 6 months of unemployment benefits, are not impacted by sequestration.) States are allowed to implement the EUC reduction later in the year, but any later action requires a bigger reduction in the weekly EUC benefit. For states implementing the EUC reduction this week, the sequester requires a 10.7% reduction in the weekly unemployment benefit.
03.15.2013	Fifty-four Percent Larger than Tax Cut in Last Year’s GOP Budget A new Tax Policy Center analysis of the Republican budget today shows that the average millionaire would reap a $408,000 tax cut under Chairman Ryan’s proposal to reduce the top individual tax rate from 39.6% to 25%. The overall tax cuts in the Republican budget add an additional $5.7 trillion to the deficit, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, with the individual rate reductions alone responsible for ballooning the deficit by $3.5 trillion. “The Republican budget would mean a huge tax cut for the very wealthy and leave a nearly $6 trillion hole in the deficit that would lead to tax increases for middle-income families,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “It moves in the opposite direction of the fiscal cliff deal at a time when income inequality continues its rapid rise in our nation. It would tie tax reform into knots. " TAX POLICY CENTER ANALYSIS • Average millionaire would see tax cuts of $408,000 in Republican budget, 54 percent greater than last year’s average $265,000 tax cut for millionaires in the Republican budget • The top 0.1 percent of Americans would see average tax cuts of $1.2 million • Overall tax cuts in the Republican budget would add $5.7 trillion to the deficit
03.14.2013	Dozens of House members and Senators are sending a letter to President Obama later today raising the alarm about Japan’s possible interest in joining the Transpacific Partnership negotiations. The letter, still circulating for signatures, will go to President Obama later this afternoon. Current signatories are below. A PDF copy is here. Below is the text of the letter: March 14, 2013 President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, As the Japanese government considers the question of whether, and under what terms, to seek entry into the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations, we too must consider our own workers and businesses. Japan’s significant, long-standing, and persistent economic barriers put in place to block our exports and support theirs have hurt American workers and businesses for decades. Nowhere is the closed nature of Japan’s markets more evident than in the auto sector, where Japanese policies and practices have been carefully honed – over generations – to keep out American and other foreign cars and parts. Consider the following facts: Japan’s Auto Market Is Closed. Despite being the third-largest auto market in the world, Japan ranks last among OECD members in terms of auto market import penetration, at 5.9 percent in 2012. By comparison, other OECD countries with major auto sectors typically have an import market share of more than 40 percent (including the United States). The barriers in Japan have included: currency manipulation; a discriminatory system of taxes; onerous and costly vehicle certification procedures for imported automobiles; a complex and changing set of safety, noise, and pollution standards, many of which do not conform to international standards and add significant development and production costs for automobiles exported to Japan; an unwillingness by Japanese dealerships to carry foreign automobiles and insufficient enforcement of competition laws to address anti-competitive practices; zoning restrictions that make it difficult, if not impossible, to establish new dealerships in important markets; government incentives to purchase Japanese-made kei cars; and exclusionary consumer preferences shaped by decades of government policies directed at promoting the national car companies. The Very Structure of Japan’s Industry Depends on Protection at Home and Exploitation of Foreign Auto Markets: Japan’s auto sector is already producing over 11 million automobiles despite having only a 5 million automobile domestic market. As its population ages and shrinks, this export pressure will only increase. Moreover, it appears that Japanese auto producers have been able to sell some products in Japan at high prices – and then to use the proceeds of those high-priced sales to sell into the U.S. market at low prices. For example, the current price of a Lexus IS 350 is $50,037 in Japan, but only $40,220 in the United States. The Impact on the U.S. Trade Deficit – and U.S. Jobs – Is Profound and Perpetual. Japan is the second-largest source of the U.S. trade imbalance after China, and, in 2012, automotive products accounted for more than two-thirds of the deficit. In fact, over the past five years, for every automobile that America exports to Japan, Japan exports over 120 automobiles to the United States. Trade in auto parts is equally imbalanced. These deficits are longstanding and growing. Twenty years ago, our automotive deficit with Japan was $31 billion. Last year it was $53.5 billion (including an auto parts deficit of $15.5 billion, compared to $9.8 billion 20 years ago). Negotiations to Open the Market Have Repeatedly Failed. Our experience with Japan has been unambiguous – namely, that the barriers to American autos in the Japanese market are deeply structural, shifting, and impervious to American negotiating efforts. This near-complete closure of the Japanese auto market has been the status quo for decades, notwithstanding the elimination of Japanese auto tariffs in 1970s or the repeated negotiation of agreements to eliminate barriers to American autos in 1980s and 1990s – including in the Market-Oriented Sector-Selective talks in 1986, the Structural Impediment Initiative talks launched in 1989, and the 1995 U.S.-Japan Auto Agreement. None of these agreements has resulted in barriers coming down and American exports going up. While some have compared this challenge to the one we faced with Korea, the Japanese auto market is more impenetrable, the history of formidable barriers and imbalanced trade is longer, and the magnitude of the problem is far greater than with Korea. Indeed, our trade deficit with Japan is more than four times as large as our deficit with Korea. American automobile companies and workers – those at the forefront of today’s economic recovery – have been forced to compete for decades on a fundamentally unlevel playing field. Japan’s participation in TPP threatens to make matters worse. In an industry with razor-thin profit margins, the elimination of the 2.5 percent car tariff (as well as the 25 percent truck tariff) would be a major benefit to Japan without any gain for a vital American industry, leading to more Japanese imports, less American production, and fewer American jobs. Confidence building measures and promises of a level playing field in the future do not address the basic concern how, under any circumstances, a TPP agreement could be sufficiently equipped to address the necessary transformation of the Japanese market. These long-standing, economically harmful practices are not susceptible to cursory negotiation at this stage, three years into the U.S. involvement in the TPP negotiations and close to the Administration’s target date of concluding talks by the end of this year. The United States and Japan are, and will remain, close and important allies. A flawed, one-way trade agreement that benefits Japan at the expense of the United States businesses and workers will not help strengthen this vital relationship. We look forward to working with the Administration on this critical issue. Sincerely, Rep. Robert E. AndrewsRep. Xavier BecerraRep. Robert A. Brady Rep. Julia BrownleyRep. Judy ChuRep. W.M. Lacy Clay Rep. Steve Cohen Rep. John Conyers Jr.Rep. Danny K. Davis Rep. Rosa DeLauroRep. John DingellRep. Mike DoyleRep. Gene GreenRep. Brian Higgins Rep. Marcy KapturRep. Dan KildeeRep. John LarsonRep. Sander LevinRep. John Lewis Rep. Daniel LipinskiRep. Dave LoebsackRep. Mike MichaudRep. George Miller Rep. Jerrold NadlerRep. Charles B. RangelRep. Gary PetersRep. Bill PascrellRep. Mark PocanRep. Tim RyanRep. Linda Sanchez Rep. Jan SchakowskyRep. Allyson SchwartzRep. Louise M. SlaughterRep. John TierneyRep. Pete ViscloskySen. Sherrod BrownSen. Robert P. Casey Jr. Sen. Joe DonnellySen. Kirsten GillibrandSen. Carl LevinSen. Charles E. SchumerSen. Debbie StabenowSen. Sheldon Whitehouse
03.12.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement on the House Republican Budget proposed by Budget Chairman Paul Ryan: “Once again the Ryan budget talks about lowering the top individual tax rate to 25 percent without any indication as to how to get there. He proposes giving an even larger tax cut to the very wealthy than in previous budgets, while leaving lower- and middle-income Americans vulnerable to a significant tax increase. Rep. Ryan talks about closing loopholes but never identifies any. His reference to a pro-growth tax system is all rhetoric. And once again while Rep. Ryan claims “to protect Medicare,” the purpose of his proposal is to end its guarantee. The reality of this budget is that its proposals are the opposite of its compassionate rhetoric.”
03.11.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin was joined by health advocates and medical researchers at Gilda’s Club in Royal Oak today to discuss the harmful effects that arbitrary, across-the-board budget cuts will have on vital state and national health research funding. Nationally, the cuts will reduce National Institutes of Health funding by 5.1 percent, which will delay or halt vital scientific projects and make hundreds of fewer research awards. Michigan programs are expected to see a $31.6 million cut from this NIH budget. These across-the-board spending cuts – referred to as budget sequestration – took effect March 1 because Republicans in Congress refused to consider a balanced replacement. “Life-saving health research is being scaled back substantially because Republicans in Congress are unwilling to close egregious tax loopholes,” said Rep. Levin. “The hit to health research is just the start. The choice by Republicans to allow the sequester to take effect is having harmful consequences throughout our nation. It is not too late to replace it with a balanced alternative.” “We expect to see $19.5 million in cuts this year. There is a wide array of exciting developments in science – every one of which could be affected by the cuts,” said Dr. James Woolliscroft, the Dean of the University of Michigan Medical School. “Cuts to NIH grants have an impact on current scientists whose jobs are at stake, on future scientists who may make other career decisions, and, of course, patients.” “With NIH grant cuts, we’re looking at the prospect of real, substantive progress being slowed or halted,” said Jeffrey Cohen from the Fragile X Association. “Something that was significant science last year is not significant science this year. How can that be? We may lose a generation of scientists. Who will devote a career dependent on grant funding when cuts to grants can happen at any time?” asked Dr. Ann Schwartz, Executive VP of Research and Academic Affairs, Karmanos Cancer Institute. BACKGROUND SEQUESTER’S HARMFUL EFFECT ON HEALTH RESEARCH Like other non-defense appropriated programs, the National Institutes of Health will be cut by 5.1 percent this year as a result of the sequester, reducing its budget by $1.6 billion. Because half of the fiscal year has already passed, NIH will need to make across the board cuts of 8.7 percent to achieve the full year’s savings in just seven months. The National Institutes of Health will be forced to delay or halt vital scientific projects and make hundreds of fewer research awards. Since each research award supports up to seven research positions, several thousand personnel could lose their jobs. Many projects would be difficult to pursue at reduced levels and would need to be cancelled, putting prior year investments at risk. At its current funding levels, NIH supports approximately 402,000 jobs and $57.8 billion in economic output. A 5.1 percent sequester is estimated to cut the total number of jobs supported by NIH spending by more than 20,500 and reduce economic activity by $3 billion. Michigan Impact In 2012, Michigan was awarded $619.1 million in NIH funding, which supported 11,065 jobs. Due to sequester, Michigan will lose an estimated $31.6 million in funding for medical research and innovation. This will mean a loss of 564 jobs supported by this funding. NIH research grants in Michigan have improved health throughout the state and nation: Wayne State is home to the NIH Perinatology Research Branch (PRB), which was recently renewed for an additional ten years. The PRB pursues vital perinatal and maternal-fetal medical research in Detroit. The University of Michigan received $446 million in funding from NIH in 2012 that led to a breakthrough in hearing loss prevention for those suffering from cystic fibrosis. Michigan State University received NIH funding that led to the discovery that platinum has cancer-fighting properties in the late 1970s. This led to the development of cisplatinin, a cancer drug that is still one of the world’s most widely used cancer treatments.
03.08.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding the February jobs report: “Our economy continues to show its resilience, spurred by the Administration’s sound economic policy. But the accelerated pace of growth that our economy needs is threatened by the sequester and the unwillingness of Republicans to consider a balanced approach to deficit reduction. The sequester’s impact may not yet be plain to see, but the outlook is deeply unsettling for our economy, with the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimating 750,000 fewer jobs as a result. It is not too late to take action to replace it.”
02.14.2013	Opening Statement of Ranking Member Sander LevinHearing on Charitable Deduction(Remarks as Delivered) We are holding this hearing on an important, but not very immediate topic. What is not being done is to address the sequester that looms immediately. There are five legislative days remaining before the sequester kicks in and does severe damage to our economy. Just last week the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office warned about the prospects of inaction, noting that it would slash GDP growth by 30% this year. This Committee should be focused on reviewing the economic consequences of inaction and finding a bipartisan solution. Again, that is not to say that the topic for today’s hearing is unimportant. Quite the contrary. In their last two budgets House Republicans have proposed cutting the top marginal rate to 25 percent, creating a $5 trillion revenue loss. Some of the proponents have suggested one major way to fill that hole is by cutting loopholes and acting on the largest deductions and credits, which includes the charitable deduction. Such action needs to be looked at, carefully, as I have long suggested. The charitable deduction is among the 10 largest tax expenditures in the code, benefitting almost 1.1 million charities and more than 37 million Americans who contribute to Section 501(c)(3) organizations every year. In 2010, it is estimated that individuals donated $210 billion to charitable organizations, of which they claimed $170 billion on their tax returns. As we know, there are already deduction limitations in place for the very wealthiest Americans – through the so-called Pease provision that was reinstated during the action that Congress took on New Year’s Day to avoid the fiscal cliff. I would be interested in knowing from our witnesses today how further limitation would affect their organizations. Yesterday, in announcing the working groups that we have set up, I said that the process helps us undertake in-depth fact-finding on a variety of important issues related to tax reform, including the charitable deduction. The testimony we hear today may help us kick off that effort.
02.13.2013	Today, House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) announced the formation of 11 separate Ways and Means Tax Reform Working Groups. The groups will be led by one Republican and one Democratic Member. Together, each of the 11 groups will review current law in its designated issue area and then identify, research and compile feedback related to the topic of the working group. The working groups will be responsible for compiling feedback on its the designated topic from: (1) stakeholders, (2) academics and think tanks, (3) practitioners, (4) the general public and (5) colleagues in the House of Representatives. Once the work of those groups have been completed, the Joint Committee on taxation will prepare a report for the Full Committee, due by April 15, 2013, that describes current law in each issue area and summarizes the other information gathered by the Committee members. LEVIN: "Tax reform must build on a full understanding of present provisions as a path to a simpler, fairer and adequate tax code. These working groups provide a framework to undertake in-depth fact-finding on a variety of important issues related to tax reform." CAMP: ““I am pleased to be working collaboratively with Ranking Member Levin and all of our Committee Members as we continue our efforts to fix our broken tax code. Regardless of party or politics, everyone can agree that comprehensive tax reform should result in a simpler, fairer tax code for families and more jobs for American workers. In addition to Committee hearings, these working groups will be one more way for the Committee to gather the necessary information to produce the best possible legislation." The 11 working groups and their respective Chair and Ranking Member are listed below (in alphabetical order). Charitable/Exempt Organizations David Reichert (R-WA) John Lewis (D-GA) Debt, Equity and Capital Kenny Marchant (R-TX) Jim McDermott (D-WA) Education and Family Benefits Diane Black (R-TN) Danny Davis (D-IL) Energy Kevin Brady (R-TX) Mike Thompson (D-CA) Financial Services Adrian Smith (R-NE) John Larson (D-CT) Income and Tax Distribution Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) Joseph Crowley (D-NY) International Devin Nunes (R-CA) Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) Manufacturing Jim Gerlach (R-PA) Linda Sanchez (D-CA) Pensions/Retirement Pat Tiberi (R-OH) Ron Kind (D-WI) Real Estate Sam Johnson (R-TX) Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) Small Business/Pass Throughs Vern Buchanan (R-FL) Allyson Schwartz (D-PA)
02.12.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement following President Obama’s State of the Union address: ”The President extended his hand to Republicans in Congress and called on us to ‘just do it’ in partnership and with urgency. He laid out a clear and decisive path on jobs and manufacturing, balanced deficit reduction and key new initiatives that Congress must now tackle, including immigration reform and gun violence. I am optimistic about the possibility for progress after his clarion call for action and his inspiring description of the role of each of us citizens in his conclusion.”
02.05.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding President Obama’s proposal to replace the sequester over the coming months with a balanced package of spending cuts and revenues: “We must take all reasonable steps to avoid the sequester because of its potentially harmful effects on the fragile economy., pursuing unyielding opposition to balanced deficit reduction regardless of how much that intransigence hurts the economy. The damaging economic impact of Republicans’ refusal to consider any additional revenue is a price they seem all too willing to let the American people pay.”
02.01.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the January jobs report: "Today's report is another sign that our economy continues to recover. However, an earlier report this week shows that the recovery remains fragile. It is therefore imperative that Republicans in Congress stop creating endless uncertainty and anxiety, which hurts our economy. “Going forward we must address the deficit through a balanced approach of spending cuts and revenue. But we also must remember that the key to deficit reduction is a vibrant economy."
01.29.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding President Obama’s immigration reform proposal: “There is an urgent need to overhaul our nation’s immigration system. I’m pleased that the President announced a comprehensive approach that includes a tough but fair path to earned citizenship for those undocumented immigrants already here, enhanced border security and legal enforcement, and a streamlining of our legal immigration system based on national economic needs and family unification. “We must act with urgency to craft a legislative solution that fixes our immigration system while protecting the well-being of American citizens.”
01.17.2013	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), a member of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, today issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s announcement of his plan to reduce gun violence: “Our nation has suffered far too much tragedy at the hands of gun violence. The massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School must serve as a clarion call to action. “President Obama made a powerful appeal for Americans to come together to take reasonable action to combat gun violence in America. I strongly support the administration’s legislative proposals — including a ban on military-style assault weapons and high-capacity magazines and requiring FBI background checks for all firearm purchases – which are supported by a majority of Americans and do not infringe upon the rights of law-abiding citizens. I also strongly support the President taking immediate executive action to strengthen law enforcement’s ability to prevent gun violence, to bolster access to mental health services and to increase safety and counseling resources at schools. “Each one of us must consider whether action is required as if one of our family members had been involved in the tragedies that I believe have forever shifted the ground upon which these legislative initiatives are considered.”
01.04.2013	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the December jobs report: “Our economy is showing continued signs of strength. We must continue to follow the pattern set in the end-of-year deal and provide confidence to businesses and consumers that going forward we will address our deficit through a balanced approach of spending cuts and revenue. Republicans should not threaten to use the basic payment of our bills and the necessary increase in the debt ceiling to achieve their goals of slashing spending only.”
12.11.2012	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after the Michigan State House and Senate approved so-called right-to-work bills: “The Governor and Republican legislature may have made the radical right special interests happy today, but this stain on Michigan's proud heritage will not be allowed to stand. Michigan played a key role in giving workers a meaningful voice in the workplace, helping to create a strong middle class and setting the stage for effective labor-management relations in industry and beyond. The effort to reverse this wrong-headed action and restore a Michigan that encourages middle class jobs and race to the top for its workers – not a crash to the bottom – begins today.” Earlier today, Rep. Levin discussed the issue on CNN: “So called right-to-work will cripple the efforts of a union to represent people in the workplace and that representation helped to create the middle class. Look at labor relations in Michigan today, how the Big Three came back through a cooperative relationship between the union and management. And essentially what so-called right-to-work legislation will do is destroy that kind of relationship. It will create immense division. It's a terrible idea.” “The Governor, he doesn’t understand labor management relations. He misdescribed what the issue is. Nobody has to join a union or pay union dues. If a majority votes to be represented, to have a voice in the workplace, that representative has to represent everybody. There can be no discrimination. All the benefits have to flow to everybody else and they have to pay everybody a reasonable fee to help the union represent everybody. So essentially it is anti-union.” “People in Michigan understand that having a representative, a voice in the workplace, created the middle class, decent wages, decent working conditions. And essentially what so-called right to work says is everybody essentially can benefit from representation, but they don't have to pay their fair share. That will cripple the ability of people to be represented in the workplace. The governor misstates what this is all about. It's not union dues. It's not having to be a union member. It's if a majority selected representative, everybody has to benefit equally, so everybody should pay a fair share of that representation. They don't pay for political activities. None of that, so the governor, I met with him yesterday and he misstated. He doesn't understand what made Michigan the ideal place, what made the middle class, and that was workers having a voice in the workplace.” “Ask the leaders of the Big Three, do they want unions to be able to be represented, people represented, have a voice in the workplace? And they say that's better for economic development in Michigan and the governor will divide Michigan, that will be his legacy, and that is a frightful legacy not only for him but for the people of the state of Michigan.”
12.07.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the November jobs report: “Today’s report provides fresh evidence of a continuing recovery and adds urgency for Republicans to end their intransigence over tax rates and come to the table to resolve the end of year issues. We can come together and extend tax cuts for 98 percent of Americans, strengthen our economy and move forward on balanced deficit reduction. The only thing standing in the way of providing certainty to citizens and businesses is that Republicans in Congress continue to place their pledge to Grover Norquist above their responsibility to the American people.”
12.06.2012	Bill turns back clock on legislation signed by Gov. Romney in 1965 U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the below statement after the Michigan House approved right-to-work legislation. In 1965, Rep. Levin authored the nation’s first comprehensive public employment labor relations bill as Chairman of the Michigan State Senate Labor Committee. That bill was crafted and passed on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis and signed into law by Gov. George Romney. INFORMATION FROM 1965 VOTES BELOW. “Before Governor Snyder and Republican legislators totally unravel the fabric of labor relations in Michigan on a path of blind partisanship, they should realize that the structure of collective bargaining for the private and public sector was crafted and passed into law on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis,” said Rep. Levin. “Our State faces many economic challenges. Management and Labor have developed increasingly a cooperative, instead of very adversarial approach, pulling together to meet the challenges. If the Republican leadership continues this plunge into deep divisiveness, it will lead increasingly to Michigan divided, not Michigan united. They must turn back.” BACKGROUND Congressman Levin was the primary author of Michigan HB 2953, which amended the Public Employment Relations Act, and HB 2954, which amended Public Act 176 of 1939, which dealt with private sector management-labor relations. The legislation in 1965 was put together on a collaborative basis with the active participation of Governor George Romney and his Administration and approved on a nearly unanimous vote as follows: The Public Employment Relations Act was amended to provide full collective bargaining rights to public employees, by a vote of 34 to 1 in the State Senate and 90-6 in the State House. A comprehensive bill on collective bargaining rights for private sector employees was passed in the State Senate by a vote of 35-2 and in the State House by a vote of 93-0. Among the Republicans who supported both efforts were future Congressman Guy Vander Jagt and future State Senate Majority Leader Emil Lockwood. Governor George Romney signed both bills into law in July 1965.
12.03.2012	Rep. Sander Levin today made the following statement regarding the passing of former State Senator Phil Mastin. “Phil Mastin was a person of strong convictions who had the courage to stand up for what he believed in. That was a quality that was an inspiration to all of us. There was no finer and kinder gentleman than Phil whom I met in the 1960s when he and his wife Donna were part of the strong fabric of community activists in Hazel Park. I will miss him, and extend my deepest sympathies to his beloved wife Donna and their entire family.” With the family, I am pleased to provide the following background on Phil Mastin’s life. Background on Philip O. Mastin, Jr. Born May 27, 1930 Beloved husband of Donna, father of Dawn Rene (Thomas) Bobby, Cheryl Wynn (Phil J.) Brown, and Philip O. Mastin III (Alice). Proud grandfather to 9 grandchildren and 27 great-grandchildren. Following 15 years as an Automotive Designer (Efficient Engineering Co., Ford Truck Engineering, Chevrolet Engineering Center),Mr. Mastin began a new career in Government and Public Service. Over a period of 25 years, Mr. Mastin served in a number of elected and appointed positions in Hazel Park, Oakland County and Michigan State governments, and in the Michigan Democratic Party including service as a Hazel Park City Councilman (1963-1968), Oakland County Supervisor (1965-1968), Oakland County Commissioner (1968-1970), Deputy Chairman and Treasurer of the Oakland County Democratic Party, Michigan State Representative (D) 69th District (1970-1976), Pontiac City Manager (1977-1979), Director of the Downtown Development Authority in Pontiac (1979-1982), and Michigan State Senator (D) 8th District. In 1982, following his election into the Michigan State Senate, Mr. Mastin was appointed Chairman of the Senate Labor Committee. On November 22, 1983, Phil Mastin became the first legislator in Michigan history to be recalled from office. His recall followed his courageous vote for a temporary state income tax increase to reduce a $1.7 billion state budget deficit inherited from a previous administration and transition the state to a constitutionally mandated balanced budget. Following his service in the Michigan Senate, Mr. Mastin became a consultant to the National Alliance of Business helping to design and obtain funding for industrial training programs for Michigan workers. In 1984 Phil Mastin became the manager of Government Relations for the non-profit UAW-GM Human Resource Center located in Auburn Hills, Michigan. In that position, Mastin helped to forge many creative UAW-GM partnerships with both state and federal agencies of Labor and Education. From 1983 – 1990, as an appointee of Governor James Blanchard, Mastin served as a founding member of the Michigan Job Training Coordinating Council, the body responsible for establishing Michigan’s job training policies and priorities. Also in 1983, he was elected as a founding Trustee of the Michigan Quality of Work Life Council. A two-term President of the Mental Health Association in Michigan (1987 – 1988), Phil Mastin had been a member of the state association’s Board of Director’s from 1977 and was elected an “Honorary Board Member” in 2000. He also served on the National Mental Health Association’s Executive Committee and Board of Directors from 1989 – 1995. In 1996 Mr. Mastin was elected to the Board of the United Way of Michigan, serving on the Executive Committee and as Chairman of the state agency’s Public Policy Committee. Following his retirement in 1994, Phil and Donna moved to Fenton, Michigan, where they were active members of Fenton’s United Methodist Church. Phil Mastin passed away on November 28, 2012. A Memorial Service will be held at 11:00 a.m. on Saturday December 15, 2012 at the First United Methodist Church, 119 S. Leroy Street, Fenton, Michigan 48430. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to the Mental Health Association in Michigan.
11.29.2012	Highlights progress in letter to 6th Binational Lake St. Clair Conference U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) highlighted the near-approval of the Lake St. Clair Strategic Implementation Plan on Thursday in a letter at the 6th Annual Binational Lake St. Clair Conference. The SIP has formally been in the works since 2007, when Rep. Levin and Sen. Carl Levin wrote a provision into the 2007 Water Resources Development Act that called for the Corps of Engineers to lead a partnership of Lake St. Clair stakeholders in developing a Strategic Implementation Plan (SIP) to come up with specific projects to implement the more than 100 individual recommendations contained in the Management Plan. The plan is expected to be approved in the coming weeks. “I am pleased to say that we are very close to winning approval for the SIP from Corps Headquarters in Washington,” Rep. Levin wrote in the letter, which an aide read to the conference attendees this morning because Rep. Levin is in Washington. “The SIP will help focus the efforts of all Lake St. Clair stakeholders on the implementation priorities, and hopefully give some of these projects a leg up when it comes to federal funding. Let me emphasize that the partnership of effort that created the SIP will continue to be essential as we move forward.” A full copy of the letter is below and available via PDF here: November 26, 2012 Dear Lake St. Clair Stakeholders: When the first Lake St. Clair Conference convened in 1999, there was a commonly held belief that Lake St. Clair had been overlooked when it came to environmental restoration and protection. Today, thirteen years later, it would be hard to argue that Lake St. Clair is still a “forgotten lake.” Through the efforts of many, we’ve made real progress in restoring Lake St. Clair. We need to continue this partnership of effort. Back around the time of the first Lake St. Clair conference, many of us made the argument that – no less than any of the Great Lakes – Lake St. Clair deserved its own management plan. Led by Dave Bonior and the Michigan Delegation, Congress agreed to fund what eventually became the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair Management Plan, which was finished in 2004. The plan was a call to action to restore and preserve Lake St. Clair and its watershed. The challenge – then and now – is to carry out the recommendations of the Management Plan. A few years later, Carl Levin and I wrote a provision into the 2007 Water Resources Development Act that called for the Corps of Engineers to lead a partnership of Lake St. Clair stakeholders in developing a Strategic Implementation Plan (SIP) to come up with specific projects to implement the more than 100 individual recommendations contained in the Management Plan. Later, Carl and I were successful in lining up the funding necessary for the Corps to create the Lake St. Clair Partnership. Work on the SIP began in early 2011, and I know that many of you have contributed to the drafting effort. I am pleased to say that we are very close to winning approval for the SIP from Corps Headquarters in Washington. The SIP will help focus the efforts of all Lake St. Clair stakeholders on the implementation priorities, and hopefully give some of these projects a leg up when it comes to federal funding. Let me emphasize that the partnership of effort that created the SIP will continue to be essential as we move forward. One key aspect of the federal government’s continued assistance in the restoration of Lake St. Clair is the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) begun by President Obama. Over the last three years, Congress has provided over $1 billion for GLRI. Some of the money has already been awarded to restoration projects in the Lake St. Clair watershed. It is essential that Congress continue funding this vital program. In the House of Representatives, I have teamed up with Representatives John Dingell, Louise Slaughter of New York, Steve LaTourette of Ohio, and a bipartisan group of 31 other House lawmakers to urge continued robust funding for GLRI next year. Another key federal program that supports Lake St. Clair is the Clean Water Revolving Fund. Since Congress created the Revolving Fund program in 1988, hundreds of millions of dollars in low-interest loans and grants have gone to projects that reduce water pollution in Lake St. Clair. The Revolving Fund represents a vital partnership of effort between the federal government, the State of Michigan, and local communities. Now is not the time for Congress to cut $780 million from this program, as some on the House Appropriations Committee have proposed. Lake St. Clair and its watershed are worth protecting. I look forward to continuing to partner with the Lakes’ many stakeholders to complete the work of restoring this natural treasure. Sincerely, Sander Levin Member of Congress
11.16.2012	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement today on the passing of Helen Milliken: “Helen Milliken had a capacity for warm friendship that knew no boundaries or limits and she will be fully missed by all of us so privileged to know her. With strong views of her own, a keen intellect and a deep and abiding commitment to so many causes she was passionate about, Helen Milliken was a vigorous, highly valued partner with her husband, Governor Milliken, in a team that has represented the very best in public service. My deepest condolences to Governor Milliken and son Bill.”
11.13.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) today released a report prepared by the committee’s Democratic staff detailing the importance of continuing federal unemployment insurance. Reps. Levin and Doggett called for prompt action to prevent unemployment benefits from being cut off for more than two million Americans just a few days after Christmas. LEVIN: “Congress must get to work immediately to address our unfinished business and avoid the fiscal cliff. We cannot forget the human cliff looming for more than two million Americans scheduled to lose their economic lifeline during the upcoming holidays. Congress must act quickly to ensure that we do not abandon those workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. Failing to act would push millions of middle class Americans into poverty and impede our economic recovery.” DOGGETT: “While our primary concern remains growing more jobs, we should provide reasonable assistance to those actively seeking work, yet still unable to secure a job.” The new report, prepared by the Ways and Means Committee Democratic Staff, includes a variety of data highlighting the need to continue federal unemployment benefits, including: State-by-state estimates of the over 2.1 million workers losing benefits in December if Congress fails to act. An analysis of long-term unemployment, which remains near historic levels, with five million Americans jobless for six months or longer. A review of how UI benefits both reduce poverty and promote economic growth and job creation. An analysis showing that unemployment benefits have already been reduced by an average of 31% compared to one year ago.
11.08.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement: “The President's reelection sent a clear message that House Republicans must end their intransigence and sit down on a bipartisan basis to find a balanced approach that combines spending reductions and revenue. We should do so by taking steps to address the time-sensitive end-of-year tax issues, unemployment insurance, Medicare reimbursement and preventing the sequester for a full year. These vital steps will allow the new Congress to set a course for deficit reduction and tax reform in a transparent and fully bipartisan fashion. “We must promote further economic growth and avoid the ‘fiscal cliff’ that could jeopardize the progress made recovering from the deep recession. Neither is served by the statements today by Speaker Boehner and Chairman Camp that tax breaks for the very wealthiest must be continued. “We need tax reform, but not as an excuse for continued stalemate as the fiscal cliff approaches.”
11.02.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the October jobs report: “There’s a reason American optimism about the economy has jumped to its highest level in years: more and more businesses are hiring. Our economy has experienced 32 straight months of private-sector job growth, thanks to the policies put in place by President Obama. Now is no time to turn back the clock.”
11.02.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today sent a letter to Congressional Research Service Director Mary B. Mazanec requesting information about what led CRS to withdraw a September report that found no correlation between tax cuts and economic growth. According to a New York Times report, and confirmed by the office of Ranking Member Levin, Senate Republicans complained directly to CRS about the report, which was subsequently pulled from its Web site. The report’s findings undermined the age-old Republican argument – pushed again this year as part of the GOP’s tax plan – that tax cuts will pay for themselves through economic growth. A copy of the letter is here, and below: November 1, 2012 Mary B. Mazanec, Director Congressional Research Service The Library of Congress Washington, D.C. 20540-7210 Dear Director Mazanec: I am writing to express my deep concern about the decision of the Congressional Research Service (CRS) to remove from its website a report entitled, “Taxes and the Economy: An Economic Analysis of the Top Tax Rates Since 1945,” by Thomas Hungerford. The impartial research and advice provided by CRS experts informs and strengthens the work of Congress. However, this valuable role hinges on the impartiality of CRS analysts and their freedom from political pressure. As with other non-partisan institutions, subjecting CRS analysts to political considerations undermines the legislative process and the American people’s trust in it. Therefore I was deeply disturbed to hear that Mr. Hungerford’s report was taken down in response to political pressure from Congressional Republicans who had ideological objections to the report’s factual findings and conclusion. It would be completely inappropriate for CRS to censor one of its analysts simply because participants in the political process found his or her conclusion in conflict with their partisan position. I would like your explanation as to why this report was removed from the CRS website, who made that decision and what considerations led to it. Furthermore, I would like to know what steps you intend to take going forward to insure that CRS analysts are able to provide their expert advice to Congress free of political pressure. Sincerely, Sander Levin Ranking Member Committee on Ways and Means
10.17.2012	New District Analysis Shows Impact of Ryan Medicare Plan Tens of thousands in 12th District would see higher costs, reduced benefits WASHINGTON – A new district-by-district analysis of the Ryan Medicare plan by the House Energy and Commerce Committee lays out in stark detail how Michiganders would be negatively affected by the proposal, which would turn Medicare into a voucher program and lead to higher out-of-pocket health care costs. The analysis also highlighted the degree to which the Ryan budget would shred Medicaid, Food Stamps and other vital programs. It follows a Kaiser Family Foundation report this week that illustrated how the proposal would have raised costs for nearly two-thirds of seniors had it been in effect in 2010, illustrating that no one – not even current seniors – are held harmless by the Ryan Medicare plan. “Nearly a fifth of Michiganders rely on Medicare for their health care and I will fight at every turn the Republican effort to turn it into a voucher program,” said U.S. Rep. Sander Levin, D-MI. “The ill effects of the plan are plain to see: higher costs for health care and, ultimately, a death spiral for traditional Medicare.” A full analysis is available here. Here’s what the Ryan budget would do to people in Michigan’s 12th Congressional District: Increase prescription drug costs for 6,900 Medicare beneficiaries in the district who enter the Part D donut hole, forcing them to pay an extra $63 million for drugs over the next decade. Eliminate new preventive care benefits for 113,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district. Force 113,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district who are currently enrolled in traditional Medicare to pay thousands of dollars more in premiums to remain in traditional Medicare after Medicare becomes a voucher program. Reduce coverage for 14,700 low income Medicare beneficiaries who rely on Medicaid to supplement their Medicare coverage, potentially denying them over $510 million in health benefits. Jeopardize nursing home care for 1,900 district residents whose expenses are paid by Medicaid. Raise food costs for 13,500 district households with seniors who rely on food stamps by as much as $1,100 per year or eliminate food assistance for many of these households entirely. Threaten affordable housing programs that provide rental support for 3,200 district seniors. Place 99,000 district seniors at increased risk of fraud, scams, and elder abuse by cutting as much as $6 billion in funding for federal consumer protection and law enforcement.
10.05.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement regarding the September Jobs report: “Republicans say they believe in America, but when we get good news about America, they say don't believe it. What they can't deny is that the economy has added jobs for the last 24 straight months and the unemployment rate is lower than it has been in nearly four years. We still have much to do, but today's report shows we are on the right path guided by the policies of the Obama administration."
09.17.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) applauded the Obama Administration’s initiation of a WTO case today against illegal Chinese export subsidies for auto and auto parts manufacturers. LEVIN: “I commend the Obama Administration on launching this critical case against illegal Chinese export subsidies to its automotive sector. Obama has vigorously challenged China’s persistent failure to play by the rules, including doubling the rate of cases brought against China as compared to the last Administration. More needs to be done to rebalance this imbalanced relationship and the President has, through actions such as this, the Rare Earths case filed earlier this year, and the creation of government-wide International Trade Enforcement Center (ITEC), taken strong steps toward that objective. Today’s action is the result of many months of hard work on the part of stakeholders and the Administration to collect relevant data and build a strong case, and it is a victory for American workers and businesses in this vital manufacturing sector.” MCDERMOTT: “China’s export subsidies to its auto and auto parts manufacturers break WTO rules and hurt American workers and businesses. The Obama Administration’s action today to challenge these subsidies at the WTO is critically important, and central to the Administration’s consistent policy of not allowing China to game the system to the detriment of workers and businesses in this country. I congratulate the Administration on building and prosecuting this important case.”
09.11.2012	In a memo to Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), the American Law Division of the Congressional Research Service (CRS) refutes the two main arguments Republicans have made in questioning the authority of the Secretary of Health and Human Services to allow States to implement demonstration projects under the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. The CRS review finds that dozens of waivers for demonstration projects have been approved in the past when their subject matter has been referenced in Section 402 of the Social Security Act (just as the Secretary currently proposes), and that there is nothing in the law that specifically bars the Secretary from providing waivers related to employment. The CRS review is attached and is available here. Ranking Member Levin responded, “You need a full-time fact checker to review all of the misrepresentations and flat-out falsehoods that Republicans are spreading. Independent analyses have found Republican claims about the Administration somehow eliminating work requirements to be ‘pants on fire’ false and ‘four Pinocchios’ dishonest. The fact is any waiver must be designed to increase the employment of welfare recipients. Now we hear their claim the Administration doesn’t have the authority to provide waivers also is more fiction than fact.” In a letter from over 75 House Republicans questioning the Secretary’s authority to provide employment-related waivers in the TANF program, Republicans asserted that “Section 1115 of the Social Security Act only provides the waiver if that section is listed...[and therefore] “waivers simply do not apply.” However, the CRS review disputes that interpretation of the Secretary’s authority, stating “the Secretary’s interpretation of her current authority under Section 1115 with regard to waivable TANF provisions under section 402 appears consistent with the Secretary’s practice under the same provision as it existed under the AFDC program.” The CRS memo highlights the fact that over 50 demonstration projects were permitted in the 1990s using the same presumption used by the Secretary of HHS today – she may waive provisions outside of Section 402 that are referenced in Section 402 (which outlines state plan requirements under the TANF program). Republicans also have asserted that a section of the Social Security Act prevents waivers for demonstration projects related to employment. In a letter to Secretary Sebelius, Congressman Camp and Senator Hatch said “the law specified that waivers granted subsequent to TANF’s passage could not affect the applicability of work requirements to States.” However, CRS refutes this view, saying the provision of law cited by Republicans does “not appear to pose a bar to the Secretary’s current exercise of authority under Section 1115 to approve an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project.” CRS concludes that the limitation referenced by Republicans was a “transitional provision” affecting only the continuation of waivers under the former AFDC program.
08.28.2012	$500,000 grant to Huron-Clinton Metropark Authority The Environmental Protection Agency today announced a new $500,000 grant to the Huron-Clinton Metropark Authority to reduce the impact of storm water at Lake St. Clair Metropark (Metro Beach). This is the second year of funding for the effort, hich is funded through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). Storm water at Lake St. Clair Metropark (Metro Beach) is currently captured in a traditional storm drain system and discharged to Lake St. Clair. Pollutants from automobiles and waterfowl that congregate in an old 42-acre parking lot constructed in the 1950s negatively affect storm water quality and contribute to beach closings. The GLRI grant will help fund passive biological treatment systems that will be used to reduce storm water runoff and improve water quality. An additional 1.2 acres of pavement will be removed and converted to panels of grass and native vegetation to capture runoff and direct it to the marsh where biological treatment of pollutants can occur. “This important grant will continue a project begun last year to reduce, capture and redirect polluted storm water runoff away from the Black Creek and Lake St. Clair,” said Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “The Great Lakes are one of our nation’s crown jewels and it is federal support like this that is helping to ensure that always remains the case.” Last year, GLRI program provided $1 million that help remove 11.5 acres of pavement in the first phase of this project. This year’s grant funding will also construct deep swales within the parking lot below the storm water system, cut the existing storm pipes, and intercept the water in the swales, thereby eliminating all of the storm water directly entering Black Creek/Lake St. Clair. GLRI grants are competitively awarded. This year, EPA received 200 applications for GLRI funding from state, tribal, and municipal agencies, nongovernmental organizations, and other eligible entities. Funding requests totaled about $73 million, more than three times the approximately $21 million available for grants this year. With the start of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding in 2010, the Lakes are receiving much-needed support. The GLRI addresses numerous threats to the Great Lakes and strives to achieve the long-term goals of protecting beaches and offshore waters for swimming, boating and fishing; assuring safe drinking water, and providing a healthy ecosystem for fish and wildlife. The program also funds cleanup of toxic hotspots around the Great Lakes and has been a critical source of funding for efforts to prevent the Asian carp from invading the Lakes. Over the last three years, Congress has approved just over $1 billion for the GLRI effort. In the House of Representatives, Reps. Levin, Slaughter, Dingell and LaTourette have spearheaded the effort for sustained funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Earlier this year, the four lawmakers organized a bipartisan letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies, Levin and Dingell urging $300 million for the GLRI. They were joined by a bipartisan group of 33 other lawmakers from around the Great Lakes. However, funding for the program is at risk of falling victim to efforts by House Republicans to slash domestic programs, and EPA in particular. In July, the House Appropriations Committee signed off on its draft of the FY 2013 appropriation for EPA. That bill contains $250 million for GLRI – a $50 million reduction from current funding. The Senate Appropriations Committee has not marked up this bill yet. It is likely that the battle over GLRI funding won’t be settled until after the November elections during the expected lame duck session of Congress. Said Rep. Levin, “Now is not the time to cut Great Lakes funding.”
08.09.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement regarding the July jobs report: With the addition of 163,000 jobs in July, our economy has created nearly four million private-sector jobs over the last two years. That contrasts with the 700,000-plus job-loss our economy experienced just during the last month George W. Bush was in office, and the four million private-sector jobs lost over the last two years of Bush’s presidency. Gov. Romney and many Republicans in Congress opposed efforts to boost our economy – steps like rescuing the American automotive industry. We need to do much more, but Republicans continue to stand in the way of progress. They threaten our nation’s credit, they block efforts to create jobs, and this week they voted to raise taxes on working families, including some military families, while continuing tax breaks for the very wealthy. Republicans don’t have a vision for the future, only a dim recollection of the past. Gov. Romney and his friends in Congress want to return to the failed policies of tax cuts for millionaires and deregulation for campaign contributors. We already tried that and it ended with one of the worst recessions in our Nation’s history. America must move forward, not go back to the Republican policies that so miserably failed us in the past.
07.30.2012	Call for Immediate Passage in House to Extend Middle Class Tax Cuts Ways and Means Committee Democrats today introduced legislation identical to the middle class tax cut bill that passed the Senate last week. The measure, H.R. 15, would extend the Bush tax cuts for households with incomes up to $250,000. The Senate’s 51-48 vote approving the legislation last Wednesday put the onus on House Republicans to quickly act so that middle-income families can rest assured that their tax cuts will be extended next year. Separately, Ways and Means Democrats also introduced legislation, H.R. 16, to reinstate the 2009 Estate Tax provisions (top rate of 45%, $3.5 million exemption) providing responsible estate tax relief and ensuring 99.7 percent of decedents will face no estate tax liability. The Republican bill spends approximately $9 billion more to provide a complete exemption from the estate tax for just 3,600 additional decedents. “House Republicans can and should pass this measure immediately to give certainty to middle class families,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “Republicans are holding up an extension of tax cuts for more than 100 million American families for the sake of a $160,000 average tax cut for 374,000 millionaires. It’s time they reset their priorities and put middle class families first.” "The only thing blocking this bill from reaching the President's desk is the stubbornness of House Republicans,” said Rep. Charlie Rangel (D-NY). “The legislation has already passed in the Senate and President Obama could easily sign it into law right away. Will House Republicans hold 98 percent of Americans hostage to benefit the wealthiest 2 percent? The time has come for them to join me and my colleagues in putting the average American first, instead of protecting a select group of millionaires and billionaires." “We all agree that extending tax cuts for the middle class is the right thing to do. Without action, 13.2 million middle class California families will see their federal income taxes increase by an average of $1,600,” said Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA). “What's unconscionable is House Republicans' decision to hold them hostage in order to win tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. These individuals don't go out and spend this money to rev up our economy: the more than 100 million middle class Americans who benefit from this tax break do. It's time to implement this smart, fair tax policy.” “The Senate-passed tax bill provides tax relief to 98% of Americans and it’s a plan that can pass,” said Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA). “I am sick of the hypocrisy among my Republican colleagues. First they say the economy isn’t growing because the tax cuts will expire and taxes will go up. Now they’re opposed to extending tax cuts for 98% of Americans because the richest 2% would get a big enough tax cut. Are the Republicans really worried about lowering taxes for Americans, helping their campaign donors, or simply saying ‘no’ to a real compromise and getting something done? I think the American people will see through the Republicans’ games and demand the relief that our bill and the Senate bill delivers.” “The 400 richest families in America today own more wealth than the half of all Americans combined-- more than 185 million Americans combined,” said Rep. John Lewis (D-GA). “In 1960 those 400 families would have paid around 50 to 70 percent of their income in taxes. Today they pay only around 15 percent. Meanwhile, the tax rate for middle class Americans has increased in that period from around 14 percent to about 20 percent. We applaud the success of the wealthy, but they are already experiencing unprecedented, dramatic reductions in their tax responsibilities. Just as every American reaps the benefits of living in this country, each should bear their fair share of responsibility and sacrifice. It’s not right for Republicans to stand in the way of tax relief for millions of families. The time to act is now.” "During these tough economic times, let's not waste any more time - let's extend the tax cuts for the 114 million American middle class families whose taxes are scheduled go up next year, including 2.5 million Massachusetts families,” said Rep. Richard E. Neal (D-MA). “This is something we all agree on - Republicans and Democrats - let's end this uncertainty for 98 percent of American families and pass this important legislation this week." “Everyone in Washington agrees that preventing a tax hike on working families is the right thing to do in these difficult economic times. Giving Americans some economic certainty and putting money in the pockets of middle-class consumers will help get our economy moving again and build a stronger future. But instead of doing what we all agree on – extending the middle class tax cut – Republicans are holding the middle class hostage to protect huge tax breaks for the very wealthiest Americans. Worse, their plan would actually raise taxes on 25 million lower- and middle-income families and add an additional $50 billion to the deficit next year alone,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson (D-CT). “With a $1-trillion deficit, the country simply can’t afford to keep giving out tax breaks to the wealthy and large corporations and still meet our pressing needs. That’s why Democrats are insisting that we ask the richest 2% of Americans to pay their fair share so that we can start paying down the deficit, create jobs and put people back to work.” “There’s no question we have to pass the Senate-passed tax bill this week, ending the Bush tax cuts for the richest 2% while extending them for everyone else,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR). “It’s not right give tax breaks to billionaire hedge fund managers and CEOs that allow them to pay lower tax rates than working people. The Senate-passed bill allows us to extend the cuts for 98% of the population, help cut the deficit, and protect Medicare and education.” “The GOP tax plan can be easily summed up this way: it’s a tax increase on U.S. military families. By ending tax breaks that benefit working, middle class families, our military families will take a direct hit under the Republican plan,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-NY). “I really don’t see how it’s justifiable or sensible to give a tax cut to the wealthiest among us, but at the same time increase taxes on U.S. soldiers. We have an obligation to reject this tax hike on our heroes and, instead, pass the Democratic proposal.”
07.26.2012	Call on House Republicans to pass immediately to ensure tax cuts continue for middle class Ways and Means Committee Democrats on Monday will join with House Democratic leaders in introducing legislation to extend the Bush tax cuts for middle class families, an identical measure to the one that passed the Senate yesterday. The bill would extend the tax cuts for households with incomes up to $250,000. The Senate on Wednesday approved the measure, 51-48, putting the onus on House Republicans to quickly act so that middle-income families can rest assured that their tax cuts will be extended next year. Ways and Means Democrats on Monday also intend to introduce legislation to reinstate the 2009 Estate Tax provisions (top rate of 45%, $3.5 million exemption) providing responsible estate tax relief and ensuring 99.7 percent of decedents will face no estate tax liability. The Republican bill spends approximately $9 billion more to provide a complete exemption from the estate tax for just 3,600 additional decedents. “The Senate’s action this week shows that the middle class tax cut extension could be sent to the president immediately were House Republicans willing to put middle class families first and pass the measure,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin. “Republicans have a choice: join with Democrats in passing middle class tax cuts now or hold up an extension of middle class tax cuts simply to benefit the very wealthy. There will be no one to blame but House Republicans if they leave here next week with the outcome still unclear for middle class families.”
07.26.2012	Opening Statement of Ranking Member Sander Levin Committee Markup: Russia’s WTO Accession and Granting Permanent Normal Trade Relations (Remarks as Prepared) Since our hearing on this issue in June action within the control of Congress has improved. Those of us who have been pressing for a bill that seeks to strengthen enforcement are pleased that our efforts came to fruition in the bipartisan outcome of the Senate Finance Committee’s markup last week. Action within the control of Russia – most directly that related to Syria – has unfortunately not changed enough. As we know, failing to grant PNTR does not prevent Russia from joining the WTO. They are scheduled to do so on Aug. 22 and our government has agreed to their accession agreement. Failing to act only prevents U.S. companies, workers, and farmers from gaining the benefits of Russia’s WTO membership. There are serious outstanding trade issues we have with Russia – ranging from IPR enforcement to the rule of law. Russia’s WTO membership will help us to make progress on some of these issues. At the same time, Russia’s accession will not, by itself, fully solve these problems. We will need to continue to work actively to address these issues at every opportunity. For example, without PNTR, if Russia would decide to massively subsidize a key industry, and those subsidies harm U.S. exporters, there is nothing we can do about it today. But with PNTR, we would be able to challenge those subsidies and either remove them or face WTO-sanctioned retaliation by the United States. The bill before us today is much improved on enforcement. Among other things, it requires the Administration to report on Russia’s implementation of all of its WTO commitments and to describe the Administration’s plan to address any deficiencies. It establishes a new mechanism to gather and report information on bribery and corruption in Russia. And it requires the Administration to negotiate new agreements to address longstanding issues with IPR enforcement and barriers to U.S. agricultural exporters. I would like to submit for the record an exchange of letters between Mr. McDermott and myself and the USTR on the use of Section 301. A bill introduced in the Senate by Senator Sherrod Brown and in the House by Representatives Michaud and DeLauro provides that the Ways and Means Committee has the right to request that the Administration take action regarding Russia’s compliance. I favor such a mechanism. Upon further examination it is clear that existing law (Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974) already provides “any interested person” the right to petition for such an enforcement action. This week, we exchanged letters with USTR confirming that Section 301 already enables the Ways and Means Committee to request action – and requires USTR to respond within a fixed timeline. In addition to our ongoing efforts around enforcement we also need to do more as a Committee and as a Congress and as individual members on the issues of human rights and Syria. So I urge the House leadership to work with us and the other committees of jurisdiction to nail down three things: (1) work with Senate leadership to reconcile the differences between the House and Senate Magnitsky bills as soon as possible; (2) after resolution of differences confirm that the Magnitsky bill and the PNTR bill will be joined together before any action on the House floor; and (3) determine how best we can send a clear message - through report language and other steps - to Russia that it needs to work with the other nations of the world to address the violence against civilians in Syria. I appreciate Chairman Camp’s willingness to do so on a bipartisan basis.
07.24.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement in response to House Republicans introducing legislation to extend the high-income Bush tax cuts: “Republicans made two things perfectly clear today: One, they are willing to hold the middle class hostage over their refusal to ask millionaires and billionaires to contribute one cent to deficit reduction. And two, their tax pledge does not extend to middle- and lower-income families, 25 million of whom would experience an average $1,000 tax hike under the Republican plan. As the President said, ‘Let’s agree to do what we agree on’ and extend the middle class tax cuts. The very wealthiest have gained the vast majority of income growth in recent decades, with 93 percent going to the top 1 percent in 2010. The Republican response is to give them a $74,000 tax cut while middle class wages stagnated and families struggle to recover from the deep recession.” QUICK FACTS ON GOP PROPOSAL: 374,000 households with incomes above $1 million reap a combined $27.9 billion tax cut -- equaling $74,505 for the average millionaire -- under a permanent extension of all the Bush tax cuts. The average tax cut for the typical middle-income family of four: $2,200. 81% of the extension of the high-income tax cuts (for households earning more than $250,000) goes to millionaires. 25 million families face an average $1,000 tax increase under the GOP plan to vastly curtail the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit and end completely the American Opportunity Tax Credit.
07.24.2012	Ways and Means Committee Democrats today introduced legislation to extend the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit and the American Opportunity Tax Credit, three vital refundable tax provisions that Republicans have proposed vastly curtailing (and ending entirely, in the case of the AOTC) as part of their Bush tax cut extension for the wealthiest Americans. The extension of the three credits will also be included in the Democratic alternative to the Republican tax cut proposal to be voted on next week. That Democratic proposal will extend the Bush tax cuts for households with incomes below $250,000. Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) is the lead sponsor of the extension of the AOTC, while Select Revenues Subcommittee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) is the lead sponsor of the extension of the EITC and CTC. The proposal would extend: Child Tax Credit: Generally, taxpayers with income below certain threshold amounts may claim the child tax credit to reduce federal income tax for each qualifying child under the age of 17. The Bush tax cuts increased the credit from $500 to $1,000 and expanded refundability. The amount that may be claimed as a refund was 15% of earnings above $10,000. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided that earnings above $3,000 would count towards refundability. This proposal extends the current child tax credit for an additional year, through 2013. Earned Income Tax Credit: Under current law, working families with two or more children currently qualify for an earned income tax credit equal to 40% of the family’s first $12,570 of earned income. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Actincreased the earned income tax credit to 45% for families with three or more children and increased the beginning point of the phase-out range for all married couples filing a joint return (regardless of the number of children) to lessen the marriage penalty. This proposal extends for an additional year, through 2013, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provisions that increased the credit for families with three or more children and increased the phase-out range for all married couples filing a joint return. American Opportunity Tax Credit: Created under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the American Opportunity Tax Credit is available for up to $2,500 of the cost of tuition and related expenses paid during the taxable year. Under this tax credit, taxpayers receive a tax credit based on 100% of the first $2,000 of tuition and related expenses (including course materials) paid during the taxable year and 25% of the next $2,000 of tuition and related expenses paid during the taxable year. Forty percent of the credit is refundable. This tax credit is subject to a phase-out for taxpayers with adjusted gross income in excess of $80,000 ($160,000 for married couples filing jointly). This proposal extends the American Opportunity Tax Credit for an additional year, through 2013. “While rightly concerned with the federal deficit, we must also remain concerned with the ‘opportunity deficit,’ when students cannot develop their God-given potential to the fullest extent,” said Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX). “Extending the ‘More Education’ tax cut will continue to close this gap, allowing more students to achieve all the education for which they are willing to work.” “As we address the expiring tax provisions, it's critical that we not forget middle-income and working poor families,” said Select Revenues Subcommittee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA). “Even though the Republicans tell us that they're against raising taxes, what they really mean is they're against increasing taxes on the wealthy. The House and Senate Republican tax packages would raise taxes on millions of low and moderate-income families at the end of this year. I urge my House Republican friends to break with the Senate and extend the enhancements to the child tax credit and earned income tax credit from my bill when they bring the legislation to the House floor.” “Republicans are not only threatening a tax hike on middle-income Americans by holding their tax cuts hostage, they are pushing for a tax increase on 25 million lower-income families,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “These refundable credits are of vital importance to tens of millions of families and it is critical that they be extended alongside the middle-class tax cuts. Republicans have it upside down: In helping the very wealthy few they are jeopardizing the financial well-being of everyone else.” "At a time when nearly one out of six Americans live in poverty, it's absolutely critical that we extend the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), Child Tax Credit and the American Opportunity Tax Credit that will help lift millions out of poverty and make college more affordable for students,” said Ways and Means Chairman Emeritus Charlie Rangel (D-NY). “In particular, the EITC has become our nation’s largest and most important anti-poverty program, offering an average of $1,700 per year to each of 20 million low-income working families. As the largest federal work support program in the country — $37 billion in tax relief annually— the EITC moves over 2.5 million children above the poverty line each year, more than any other federal program. I was proud to fight for the expansion of this program before, and I will fight for it again this time." “At a time with a growing number of American families are living in poverty, Congress should be focused on policies to reverse that disturbing trend,” said Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA). “Instead, House Republicans are fighting to preserve massive tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires and allowing vital tax programs that help needy families to expire.” “As Republicans hold the line on tax cuts for the wealthy, critical education and child care tax credits are set to expire for millions of students and working families,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA). “The President has offered a compromise that would give millions of families certainty as Congress debates tax cuts for the top 2% of Americans. These credits, which benefit millions of working class families and students, are a no-brainer and should be passed immediately.” “I stand in support of the millions of working American families who these tax credits have helped to lift out of poverty and into the middle class – over seven million families last year alone,” said Oversight Subcommittee Ranking Member John Lewis (D-GA). “They helped students pay for college. They helped families care for their children. They helped families adopt children. They helped millions buy homes. They helped make work pay. They helped middle class families do just a little bit better. Programs like the Earned Income Tax Credit encourage and reward work. They give dignity to people who work hard each and every day. I support these tax credits and will fight to improve these programs and give these hardworking families a fair shake.”
07.19.2012	Ways and Means Committee Democrats today introduced two more jobs bills within their No Excuses Agenda as they seek to encourage Congressional Republicans to finally act to spur job growth. The Wind Powering American Jobs Act would extend through 2013 the production tax credit for wind energy manufacturers, a highly successful measure with strong bipartisan support that expires at the end of the year. The Hire Now Act would provide a 10 percent income tax credit for employer payroll increases this year, an identical measure to one included in the Small Business Jobs and Tax Relief Act of 2012, which will soon be acted on in the Senate. Both measures would be paid for by ending tax breaks for the Big Five oil and gas companies, which earned a combined $32 billion in profits during the first three months of 2012 alone. (SUMMARIES BELOW) Today’s bill introductions add to the No Excuses Agenda that Ways and Means Democrats kicked off last week with the introduction of legislation to extend 100 percent Bonus Depreciation through 2012, another bipartisan provision that Republicans in Congress have so far failed to bring up for a vote. “It is far past time for congressional Republicans to stop their obstructionism and get to work to boost job growth,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “These two measures would do just that. The wind energy tax credit has been both very effective and very popular across both sides of the aisle and there’s no excuse for Republicans to sit on its extension and create further uncertainty for the wind energy industry. The tax credit for increasing payrolls would provide a concrete incentive for businesses to hire new workers and could immediately benefit two million small businesses. It is up to Republicans to set aside politics and act now on behalf of American workers.” "Congress should continue its long-standing support for a broad array of clean energy tax incentives to spur investment, create jobs and diversify our nation's energy portfolio,” said Rep. Charlie Rangel (D-NY). “New wind power manufacturing jobs are already being lost, and if a PTC extension is delayed until the lame duck session, many more losses will certainly follow. The PTC has strong bipartisan support-- Congress can get it done now. We should be focusing on creating jobs, and these energy provisions will let companies plan and hire people. There's absolutely no excuse to wait - let's do it now." “There is no reason we shouldn't bring these job creating bills to the floor right now,” said Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA). “By extending the production tax credit, we can protect and promote green jobs in an industry that creates clean energy, and pay for it by closing tax loopholes for big oil and gas companies. That's a win for local manufacturers in the East Bay, and it's a win for our alternative energy sector.” “Since President Obama took office the stated goal of Republican leadership has been to prevent his reelection,” said Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA). “They have become the party of ‘no,’ even at the expense of the American people. Recognizing this, we are offering two more bills that Republicans should have no problem passing. Each bill has Republican support, is fully paid for, and is known to save and create jobs,” said Congressman Jim McDermott (D-WA). “For the sake of struggling Americans and American businesses, I hope that my Republican colleagues will finally move beyond the politics of ‘no’ and allow these bills to come to the floor. Failing to pass these bills would show, yet again, that the Republican majority is more interested in Presidential politics than doing the right thing for the American people.” “The two bills we’re introducing today are good for businesses, good for job creation and good for our economy,” said Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA). “The only question is, will this House Majority bring these bills up for a vote or will they continue to delay job creation and hurt our economy until after the election in an attempt to score cheep political points? It’s time to quit the political games and start putting Americans back to work.” “Oregon demonstrates the potential and power of renewable resources,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR). “Wind power is driving innovation and creating jobs across the state and the federal Production Tax Credit is a critical component. Oregon’s wind resources power more approximately 700,000 Oregon households, and the wind industry supports more than 3,000 Oregon jobs. Immediately extending the Production Tax Credit will ensure that there is a stable environment where the wind industry in Oregon and across the country can continue to thrive, providing renewable power and clean energy – two things we definitely need.” “There are no more excuses, we’ve got to make some real progress in creating the environment for job growth that our economy so desperately needs right now,” said Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI). “And that means moving past the partisanship, supporting our small businesses, and providing the tax relief and incentives employers need to grow and hire. That’s exactly what the extension of the wind production tax credit and the hiring credit for increased W2 wages would do and exactly what we need to focus on right now.” “Putting Nevadans back to work is my number one priority and that’s why I’m proud to cosponsor these two bills that aim to create jobs in Nevada and across our nation,” said Rep. Shelley Berkley (D-NV). “While some in Washington work to protect corporations that ship our jobs overseas, I’m working with my colleagues to pass legislation that invests in clean energy jobs and provides small businesses the tools they need to expand and hire employees.” “We can’t say it enough: we need real action on jobs and we need it now,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-NY). “The time for excuses is over. These two bills, along with last week’s proposed bonus depreciation legislation, are actions we can take now to create jobs and encourage an atmosphere of growth in this country. It is time our colleagues on the other side of the aisle abandon their partisan games and join us in working toward real solutions.” Summary of the Wind Powering American Jobs Act: The Wind Powering American Jobs Act would extend the Production Tax Credit through 2013, providing a 2.2-cent-a-kilowatt-hour credit for electricity produced by wind turbines. Under the measure, wind project developers could continue to choose to instead receive a 30 percent investment tax credit. The Production Tax Credit, established in 1992, has helped lead to tremendous growth within the windy energy industry. The extension is paid for by repealing dual capacity taxpayer benefits for the Big Five integrated oil companies, which continue to reap record profits. Key Facts: There is broad bipartisan support for the Production Tax Credit, so much so that even Karl Rove advocates for its extension. In the last five years alone, the wind energy industry has scaled up domestic manufacturing from 25 percent to 60 percent. Nearly 500 facilities in 44 states manufacture for the wind energy industry, according to the American Wind Energy Association. The wind industry has attracted more than $15 billion annually in private investment to the U.S. in each of the last five years, according to the American Wind Energy Association. Summary of the Hire Now Act: The Hire Now Act would provide a 10 percent income tax credit for firms that create new jobs or increase wages in 2012. Under the legislation a firm can increase its payroll by either hiring additional workers or raising the salary of existing workers. The credit is targeted to middle class jobs and wages and because the credit is based on Social Security wages, companies would receive no credit for wages above $110,100. It would be paid for by repealing LIFO and Intangible Drilling Costs (IDCs) for the Big Five integrated oil companies. In order to focus the benefit on small businesses, the credit is limited to $5 million in new wages, meaning the maximum tax benefit is $500,000 per firm. Provides $20 billion in direct tax relief that could encourage an additional $200 billion to $300 billion in new wages and jobs this year. Would benefit approximately 2 million small businesses.
07.18.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) made the following statements after the Senate Finance Committee today approved bipartisan legislation granting Permanent Normal Trade Relations status to Russia that includes strong enforcement provisions: LEVIN: “I commend the Senate Finance Committee for its unanimous bipartisan action today. The outcome of that action is a strong bill that addresses the outstanding issues that we have raised. I fully support that bill and hope Chairman Camp will join me in co-sponsoring an identical House bill and schedule a markup. I fully expect the Magnitsky bill will be part of the House consideration of the Russia PNTR bill. And, as I’ve said before, we need to use the opportunity of action on Russia PNTR to send a clear message to Russia that it needs to work with the other nations of the world to address the violence against civilians in Syria.” MCDERMOTT: “We should get Russia PNTR done now – and this bipartisan bill from the Senate Finance Committee is the right approach. It makes progress on longstanding issues with Russia, from the enforcement of intellectual property rights to barriers to Russia’s commitment to participate in the WTO’s Information Technology Agreement. I urge Chairman Camp to schedule a markup of this bill next week.”
07.18.2012	Legislation would require 10 years of tax returns and disclosure of overseas accounts and other financial transactions Representative Sander Levin (D-MI) is preparing legislation to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to require presidential candidates to make public 10 years of tax returns and disclose overseas accounts. The legislation, to be introduced in the coming weeks, comes as Republican Presidential nominee Mitt Romney continues to balk at releasing a broad set of tax returns and fails to come forward with a full disclosure of accounts he has held overseas. “The stunning lack of transparency from someone in pursuit of the highest office in the country highlights the need to change the law to require fuller disclosure,” said Rep. Levin. “For decades, presidential candidates have voluntarily provided a thorough accounting of their tax returns and finances, as they should. But we clearly cannot continue to rely solely on the willingness of a candidate to disclose fully what the public has a right to know about the candidate’s financial record.” Rep. Levin also called on Gov. Romney to immediately release 10 years of tax returns. “Gov. Romney must immediately release these tax returns and explain them to the American people,” said Rep. Levin. “The American people should not be left to wonder what he is not disclosing and why not. The law should enforce what is such obvious good, transparent, accountable government.” In addition to requiring candidates to release 10 years of tax returns, the legislation would require presidential candidate financial disclosures to include the following information not currently included on disclosures and not easily discernible from tax returns. These disclosures would provide a fuller picture of a candidate’s financial holdings and interests. In general terms, the legislation would require the candidate to also disclose: The location (country), value, and economic purpose of each offshore account, holding or investment of the candidate (other than investments in publicly traded corporations). The portion of the candidate’s capital gains income attributable to an investment of the candidate’s capital and the portion that is earned by managing other people’s money (i.e. carried interest income). Details of any ongoing compensatory arrangement between the candidate and any other individual or entity. More comprehensive disclosure of assets, including purchases and sales of assets, held by tax preferred accounts such as IRAs and 401(k) plans. Details of the assets and activities of any entity in which the candidate has a controlling interest.
07.13.2012	U.S. House of Representative Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement in response to a recent announcement from the Department of Health and Human Services that it would consider requests from the states to operate demonstration projects within the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program to help recipients prepare for, find and maintain employment: “The first phase of welfare reform in the 1990s was waivers provided to the states to help them test new ways to move individuals from welfare to work. HHS Secretary Sebelius is now using that same waiver authority to allow states to once again to find innovate ways to increase employment among welfare recipients. This policy is pro-work, and it acknowledges that not all wisdom resides in Washington. “Curiously, some of the same voices that pay lip service to the virtues of state flexibility now appear to oppose providing waivers under the TANF program. It turns out that Republican support for state flexibility is a one-way street – they support flexibility when it comes to reducing assistance for needy Americans looking for work, but they oppose giving states greater discretion in helping people find work. “Any demonstration project approved by HHS must be designed to improve employment outcomes for welfare recipients, as validated by a rigorous evaluation. Current basic TANF provisions, including the five-year time limit on benefits and fixed block grant funding levels, will not change under these projects. This is very consistent with the underlying thrust of the 1996 welfare law – expecting states to help people prepare for and find work, while giving them some flexibility in achieving that goal. “I strongly support the Administration’s call for states to find innovative ways to promote employment, and I hope the states will use this opportunity to help more families climb the economic ladder through work. “It is reprehensible for Gov. Romney to suggest the administration is stripping welfare work requirements. Gov. Romney has charged ahead with a politically motivated attack that totally misrepresents the administration’s reason for permitting state waivers. Welfare reform, which I supported, needs people to work together to improve it, not manipulate it for political purposes. Helping people work is at the core of welfare reform and that is exactly what these new waivers aim to achieve."
07.12.2012	Measure Part of “No Excuses” Jobs Agenda Ways and Means Committee Democrats today introduced legislation to extend the Research and Development Tax Credit through 2012, the latest bipartisan measure Committee Democrats have unveiled as part of their No Excuses agenda to encourage Republicans to finally act on jobs legislation. The R&D Tax Credit – a 20 percent credit for certain research expenditures -- expired at the end of 2011, despite its proven effectiveness and broad bipartisan support. The legislation, the Investing in American Innovation Act of 2012, would provide an incentive to companies to invest in research at the level that is most beneficial for the overall economy. In 2009, the last year for which data is available, more than 12,000 firms claimed the R&D Credits related to nearly $100 billion in qualified research expenses. The measure is paid for by limiting treaty shopping and ending the special depreciation for corporate jets. (Summaries below). The Investing in American Innovation Act of 2012 is the fourth measure introduced in recent weeks as part of the No Excuses agenda as Democrats seek to encourage Republicans to finally act on measures to spur job growth. Other bills in the package include the Wind Powering American Jobs Act, the Hire Now Act and the Invest in America Now Act. “Instead of ‘signaling’ to American workers that they prefer wasting time on bills to nowhere – like this week’s repeal vote – Republicans should get to work on real jobs legislation,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “This legislation and the other bills in the No Excuses agenda are meant to give Republicans the opportunity to finally turn their focus toward job growth by bringing up bills that will boost the economy and have broad bipartisan support.” “As we are still fighting to get our economy back on track, the R&D tax credit will encourage companies to invest in research that will help them and the country as a whole,” said Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D-NY). “It will advance our short-term and long-term goals to create more jobs. There's no excuse to reject this bill. I urge all my colleagues to support this bipartisan jobs-spurring legislation.” “We’ve now introduced four bi-partisan bills in four weeks without any action by the Republicans,” said Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA). “These bills have broad bi-partisan support and have been proven to help businesses and strengthen the economy. This legislation is no different. Businesses across the country, and many in my district like Microsoft and Boeing, rely on this credit to produce the most innovative products in the world. Failure to pass this bill is again, yet another indication that the Republican leadership is more interested in playing politics than strengthening America’s economy.” “Extending the R&D tax credit will provide American businesses increased certainty and a greater ability to invest in themselves and grow,” said Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI). “The credit will allow established businesses – large and small - entrepreneurs and start ups to facilitate technological improvements, continue to innovate, create jobs, and better compete in the global economy. Extending this tax credit is a commonsense, long-term investment in America’s future.” “Supporting Nevada's small businesses by making sure they have the tools they need to hire more employees is a top priority,” said Rep. Shelley Berkley (D-NV). “That's why I support this common sense bill to extend the R and D tax credit for another year, giving small businesses the certainty they need to create more jobs in Nevada and across our nation.” “We must do all we can to encourage American businesses to invest, grow and create new jobs, and these tax credits will help give businesses the certainty to do just that,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-NY). “Our nation’s economy was founded on American ingenuity and innovation. And, in order to keep the U.S. competitive in today’s global economy, we must continue to make strides. I urge my colleagues to join us in supporting this bipartisan legislation to extend the R&D tax credits.” Summary of the Investing in American Innovation Act of 2012: Extending the R&D Tax Credit The bill would extend through December 31, 2012 the 20 percent credit for certain research expenditures (as well as the 14 percent Alternative Simplified Credit) which expired on December 31, 2011. The research credit, which enjoys broad bipartisan support, is intended to provide an incentive to companies to invest in research at the level that is most beneficial for the overall economy. In the absence of the credit, there may be a tendency to invest too little in research activities that benefit the country as a whole, in addition to the taxpayer making the investment. In 2009, over 12,000 firms claimed R&D Credits related to nearly $100 billion in qualified research expenses. Limiting Treaty Shopping Under current law, certain payments (principally dividends, interest, and royalties) made by US-based entities to a parent company based overseas are subject to a 30 percent withholding tax. That requirement customarily is reduced or eliminated when the payment is made to a country with which the US has a tax treaty. Companies with parents based in tax haven countries are able to effectively bypass the withholding tax by routing payments through an affiliate in a tax treaty country, which then transfers the funds to the parent company. The provision would limit this practice by retaining the withholding tax on certain deductible payments (principally interest and royalties) to a foreign-based affiliate unless the tax would be reduced under a treaty if the payment were made directly to the company’s parent corporation. Ending Special Depreciation for Corporate Jets Business jets currently are depreciated over five years, while commercial aircraft are depreciated over a longer period (seven years). The proposal would change the recovery period for business jets to that of commercial jets. There is no reason that jets used for different purposes (general vs. commercial aviation) should have different class lives.
07.09.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding President Obama’s speech calling on Congress to immediately pass a one-year extension of the Bush tax cuts for middle class families: “Republicans can’t hide behind their claims about small businesses when the data shows that 97 percent of taxpayers with business income earn less than $250,000 a year. They can’t hide behind their claim that they care about the middle class if they hold tax relief for middle class families hostage to tax breaks for the wealthy. “President Obama said it well: Let’s agree to do what we agree on to help middle class families and accelerate the economic recovery. Everyone – both Republicans and Democrats – agree on extending the middle class tax cuts, so we should get it done now.”
07.06.2012	U.S. House of Representative Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement on next week’s Ways and Means hearing on Supreme Court’s ruling that the Affordable Care Act is constitutional: “The bottom line that almost no one will pay the free-rider fee whether you call it a tax or a penalty. Just like in Massachusetts where Governor Romney put in place the same mandate to prevent free-riding off the health care system, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that only 1.4% of Americans will pay anything for refusing to purchase insurance. “Democrats will use the hearing as an opportunity to review the benefits of the health care reform law, and highlight the hypocrisy of Mitt Romney’s ever evolving position on health care reform and the nearly identical free-rider mandate that he included in his Massachusetts law. “The American people will see through this arcane hearing and see that the Republican agenda is to simply end the benefits of health care reform and put the insurance companies back in the driver’s seat -- returning to the days when individuals with pre-existing conditions were denied care, seniors fell into the prescription drug donut hole, and too many families could not afford insurance.”
07.06.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today regarding the release of the June jobs report: “We are moving in the right direction with 28 straight months of job creation, but it is clear that the recovery is too slow for millions of unemployed workers, their families, and the businesses needing more consumer demand to spur their growth. “The Republicans think they can slow walk the economy to the election, but next week when they go through the motions on yet another health care repeal vote that is going nowhere, the American people will see through their smokescreen and know that their agenda is simply one of inaction.” “Democrats have a ‘Make it in America’ plan, and we have introduced three pieces of legislation in the last three weeks with bi-partisan support as part of our ‘No Excuses’ agenda that Republicans could pass immediately. “The American public deserves to know that each and every day we are doing everything we can do to support and strengthen the economic recovery.”
07.05.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) today issued the following statements on the announcement made by the U.S. Trade Representative that the United States has initiated a WTO challenge against China’s unfair trade actions on American-made automobiles: “I welcome the President’s announcement today, and his continued focus on leveling the playing field for American workers and businesses,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin. “Let’s not forget that China imposed these duties on American autos as an act of unilateral retaliation, because China wanted to punish the United States for exercising our right under WTO rules to address a surge in cheap Chinese tire imports. That act of retaliation was itself a violation of international law and a serious threat to the integrity of the world trading system. The President’s action today is a measured and forceful response.” “The President has developed a strong record over the past three and a half years of standing up for American workers and businesses against China’s predatory trade policies,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott. “Actions like this one today will help to increase American exports and to create American jobs.” Background The U.S.-China economic relationship has the potential to create jobs and raise living standards in both countries. But the relationship is imbalanced and unsustainable. Last year, our bilateral trade deficit with China was $295 billion, roughly 40% of the total U.S. trade deficit. China exports almost four times as much to the United States as the United States exports to China ($399 billon vs. $104 billion last year). This trade deficit is a drag on U.S. job creation and economic growth. According to a recent academic paper, between one quarter and one half of U.S. manufacturing jobs lost in the last decade were due to imports from China (i.e., one to two million jobs). China’s trade and industrial policies contribute to that imbalance, and many of these policies appear to violate international trade rules. The Obama Administration is working to address these issues. Most notably, the President in his most recent State of the Union Address announced the creation of an Interagency Trade Enforcement Center (ITEC) and has proposed an additional $26 million to support the ITEC. (Ways and Means Democrats have long advocated for a more assertive approach to enforcement.) The Administration has also: (1) brought trade cases against China at nearly twice the rate as the last administration; (2) taken a leading role internationally in publicly confronting China’s use of intimidation and retaliation as a policy tool; and (3) taken bold new steps to match China’s export financing where China fails to observe international disciplines.
06.28.2012	Providing new coverage options for young adults (under 26 on parents coverage) • As of December 2011, 94,000 young adults in Michigan gained insurance coverage as a result of the health care law. Making prescription drugs affordable for seniors (Medicare donut hole rebates) • This discount has resulted in an average savings of $757 per person, and a total savings of $17,628,271 in Michigan. Covering preventive services with no deductible or co-pay • Over 3 million people in Michigan gained preventive service coverage with no cost-sharing through both Medicare and private health insurance. Providing better value for your premium dollar through the 80/20 Rule (MLR rebates) • 113,995 Michigan residents with private insurance coverage will benefit from $13,908,262 in rebates from insurance companies this summer. These rebates will average $214 for the 65,000 families in Michigan covered by a policy. Removing lifetime limits on health benefits • Already, 3,547,000 residents, including 1,315,000 women and 977,000 children, are free from worrying about lifetime limits on coverage. The law also restricts the use of annual limits and bans them completely in 2014. Creating new coverage options for individuals with pre-existing conditions • As of April 2012, 1,263 previously uninsured residents of Michigan who were locked out of the coverage system because of a pre-existing condition are now insured through a new Pre-Existing Condition Insurance . Preventing illness and promoting health • Michigan has received $22.8 million in grants from the Prevention and Public Health Fund created by the Affordable Care Act. Increasing support for community health centers • Health centers in Michigan have received $69.5 million to create new health center sites in medically underserved areas and to expand on existing sites. Scrutinizing unreasonable premium increases • In every State and for the first time under Federal law, insurance companies are required to publicly justify their actions if they want to raise rates by 10 percent or more. Michigan has received $5 million under the new law to help fight unreasonable premium increases. Strengthening partnerships with Michigan Examples of Affordable Care Act grants to Michigan not outlined above include: • $530,000 to support the National Health Service Corps, by assisting Michigan in repaying educational loans of health care professionals in return for their practice in health professional shortage areas. • $1.4 million for the Personal and Home Care Aide State Training Program, which will help train key health care aides and strengthen the direct care worker workforce. • $1.8 million for the expansion of the Physician Assistant Training Program, a five-year initiative to increase the number of physician assistants in the primary care workforce. • $4.4 million for school-based health centers, to help clinics expand and provide more health care services such as screenings to students. • $620,000 to support outreach to eligible Medicare beneficiaries about their benefits. • $500,000 to support Aging and Disability Resource Centers (ADRCs). ADRCs help seniors, people with disabilities, and their families understand and evaluate their long-term care options, including those available in their community. • $7.7 million for Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Programs. These programs bring health professionals to meet with at-risk families in their homes and connect families to the kinds of help that can make a real difference in a child’s health, development, and ability to learn - such as health care, early education, parenting skills, child abuse prevention, and nutrition. • $1 million from the Pregnancy Assistance Fund to provide pregnant and parenting teens and women with a seamless network of supportive services to help them complete high school or postsecondary degrees and gain access to health care, child care, family housing, and other critical support. Source: https://www.healthcare.gov/law/resources/mi.html Note: Last updated: June 25, 2012
06.28.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement applauding the Supreme Court decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act: “The winners today are the American people. After nearly five decades – spanning eight presidents – we have succeeded in enacting comprehensive health care reform. Americans are already benefitting from the law’s provisions that prevent the worst insurance company abuses, expand preventive care, reduce prescription drug costs for seniors, and allow young adults to stay on their parents’ insurance. “Now we can move forward and implement the law’s provisions that will expand coverage, and reform our overall system to reduce costs for middle class families. I urge my Republican colleagues to respect the opinion of the Court and end their misleading and partisan all-out assault on health care reform.”
06.26.2012	Grants totaling $681,363 awarded through COPS program Oak Park Department of Public Safety has been awarded $681,363 in COPS Hiring Program grants to hire three police officers, the Department of Justice announced. The department is among 221 recipients of the grants nationwide. Eight agencies in Michigan received awards. “These grants provide a tremendous resource for our community at a time when police departments around the country continue to face extremely trying financial challenges,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “I commend Oak Park for their work in securing this award and will continue to work to support this important program.” “The Oak Park Public Safety Department is extremely grateful and excited that we have been awarded funding from the 2012 Cops Hiring Grant Program to be used for three Public Safety Officer Positions,” said Steve Cooper, Oak Park Director of Public Safety. “Due to very difficult fiscal times, we were forced to lay off 15 Public Safety Officers. The funding from the Cops Grant is desperately needed and very much appreciated.” ABOUT THE COPS HIRING PROGRAM The COPS Hiring Program provides funding to address the full-time sworn officer needs of state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide. The grants go directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new and/or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. A unique change for the 2012 program requires that all new officers hired under the grant must be military veterans that have served at least 180 days of active military service, any part of which occurred on or after September 11, 2001. This year’s CHP grants provide 75 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years (36 months) for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions (including filling existing unfunded vacancies) or for rehired officers who have been laid off, or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date, as a result of local budget cuts. Any additional costs above the approved entry-level salaries and fringe benefits, up to $125,000, are the responsibility of the grantee agency.
06.21.2012	The House of Representatives this week overwhelmingly approved the Food and Drug Administration Reform Act, which included important new provisions to improve the safety of our drug supply, reduce drug shortages and crack down on the manufacturing of certain synthetic drugs. The vote was 387-5. The compromise bill will now be taken up by the Senate in time for the President to sign in July. “This bill bans K2, Spice and other synthetic drugs that increasingly threaten the public health and safety of our communities,” said U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “After this action, federal criminal penalties will apply to the manufacture, sale, possession and use of these dangerous drugs.” The bill includes a provision adding certain synthetic drugs – like K2, Spice and bath salts – to Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act. For many years, the FDA – charged with protecting the safety of pharmaceuticals – has focused its inspections on U.S. drug manufacturing facilities, but in recent years more and more drugs sold in the U.S. have been made abroad. The bill also will allow the FDA to monitor the activity at international manufacturing facilities more effectively and it increases the penalties to anyone who creates counterfeit drugs. As the pharmaceutical market becomes increasingly globalized, these provisions will help ensure that the U.S. supply chain remains safe.
06.05.2012	Project Management Office for the Stryker Brigade Combat Team Honored The Department of Defense has awarded the TACOM-based Project Management Office of the Stryker Brigade Combat Team with a prestigious Secretary of Defense Environmental Award, an annual honor bestowed on individuals, teams and installations for their outstanding achievements to conserve and sustain the Pentagon’s natural and cultural resources. The award will be presented at the 50th Secretary of Defense Environmental Awards Ceremony on Wednesday at 1:30 p.m. at the Pentagon. “You can be proud of the installation’s accomplishments incorporating environmental, safety, and occupational health requirements into the weapon system acquisition program’s decision-making process,” Deputy Under Secretary of Defense Dorothy Robyn wrote in a letter to Rep. Levin in late May informing him of the award. “The Project Management Office has done a commendable job overseeing the Stryker Family of Vehicles, which provides our service members a full spectrum of capabilities needed to fight and win on the battlefield,” said Rep. Levin. “Specifically, the Double V-Hull program has increased occupant safety by improving the vehicle’s defenses against IEDs and reducing harmful impacts of pollution and hazardous materials. I’m honored to recognize the members of the Stryker team for their outstanding work on behalf of our Nation’s warfighters.” In Fiscal Years 2010 and 2011, the Project Management Office of the Stryker Combat Brigade continued to aggressively implement pollution prevention, waste minimization, and environmental compliance strategies into the Stryker Family of Vehicles Program. In addition, the installation designed, validated, manufactured 450 of the Double V-Hull Strykers, which will be fielded in Afghanistan. The Strykers significantly increase crew and vehicle protection against IEDs. Throughout the Double V-Hull program, the installation utilized the Stryker Brigade Combat Team’s Environmental Management Team, which is comprised of representatives from several Government agencies and contractors. The team assisted the installation in identifying and resolving current or potential environmental issues as well as in identifying potential pollution prevention and HazMat reduction opportunities. The use of the Environmental Management Team allowed installation to concurrently incorporate perspectives and input from the vehicle system manufacturer, Soldiers, and maintainers. The Environmental Management Team conducted the trade-off studies of less or non-hazardous materials and manufacturing processes; reviewed system requirements for environmental issues and pollution prevention opportunities for exploitation, and ensured that the program remained in compliance with federal, state, local environmental laws as well as Defense Department regulations and requirements.
06.01.2012	“Today’s jobs report shows the need for Congress to act on legislation to help job growth. Time and time again on issue after issue, the rigid ideological agenda of congressional Republicans has stood in the way of pro-growth policies, whether they involve long-overdue transportation and infrastructure legislation or the to-do list that President Obama recently laid out to give businesses a direct incentive to invest and hire here in the United States. “For 27 straight months the private sector has added jobs – a significant achievement considering the dire situation our nation faced just a few years ago. Clearly there is much more work to do, and it is time for Republicans to stop rooting against our recovery and join the effort to put our economy on a firmer footing.”
05.10.2012	The President made an important statement about equality yesterday, speaking to the progress underway in our nation recognizing the rights of all individuals in long-term committed relationships. I agree that same sex couples should be able to marry legally.
04.25.2012	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement regarding Defense Secretary Leon Panetta’s recommendation to retain funding in the Air National Guard budget for 24 C-130s: “Sec. Panetta’s recommended changes to the Air National Guard budget would retain overall funding for 24 C-130s and 2,200 personnel that were scheduled to be cut. This is a positive step in the battle for equitable treatment of the Guard, and I look forward to pressing the case that C-130s should be based at Selfridge, just as they were prior to the 2005 BRAC round.”
04.20.2012	Levin Joins Colleagues in Requesting Department of Justice Inquiry U.S. Rep. Sander Levin today urged U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to investigate manipulation of oil and gas markets. In a letter to the Attorney General signed by 41 other Democratic members, Levin noted that artificially high prices due to excessive speculation or mark manipulation function as a hidden tax on American consumers and can impede our ongoing economic recovery. Earlier this week House Republicans rejected an amendment by Rep. Tierney to authorize funds for the Commodities Futures Trading Commission to effectively enforce oversight of the oil market to combat speculation and market manipulation that are driving up gas prices. Experts believe that Wall Street speculators may be to blame for as much as 20% of the increase in gas prices. The amendment failed on a mostly partisan vote of 160 to 261. The Obama administration, meanwhile, this week proposed new rules to limit oil speculation, including requiring oil traders put up more of their own money for transactions, requesting more funds for market enforcement and monitoring activities, and calling for higher penalties for market manipulation. A PDF copy of the letter is available here. Text is below: Dear Attorney General Holder: We write in support of President Obama’s recent announcement that the Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group has been reconstituted and strongly encourage you to use the Working Group to prosecute a vigorous inquiry into the extent to which excessive speculation or outright manipulation are driving up prices in today’s oil and gas markets. The answer to this question is not academic. Artificially high prices due to excessive speculation or market manipulation function as a hidden tax on American consumers and can impede our ongoing economic recovery. In response to the recent run up in oil and gas prices, credible sources including CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton and Forbes Magazine have both estimated that the current price of a gallon of gasoline includes a speculative premium of over 50 cents. Rather than risking a repeat of 2008 – where speculators ran the price of a barrel of oil up to $147 and market manipulators were only identified and charged after the fact – the time to act is now. We urge you to use every investigatory and law enforcement tool at your disposal to ensure the proper functioning of our oil and gas markets. Sincerely,
04.18.2012	Part of House GOP budget that ends Medicare Republicans on the House Agriculture Committee are advancing a measure today that would cut nearly $32 billion from Food Stamps (the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) at a time when the number of people receiving Food Stamps has grown dramatically. Nearly 30,000 households in Michigan’s 12th Congressional District received Food Stamps in 2010, the most recent year that data is available. Those families had an average income of less than $19,000. Under the GOP proposals, an average family of four would face an 11 percent cut after Sept. 1, Politico noted in a front-page story this week highlighting the cuts. The cuts come as part of the same Republican budget that would end the Medicare guarantee and lavish nearly $400,000 in tax cuts on the average millionaire. “Food Stamps help tens of thousands of hard-working families in southeast Michigan and these proposals would dramatically impact their ability to put food on the table,” said Rep. Levin. “Rather than cut back programs for the most vulnerable populations, it is time for House Republicans to support asking slightly more from the very wealthiest households.” Legislation before the House Agriculture Committee today would: Eliminate the LIHEAP trigger eligibility for SNAP, cutting $14.3 billion. Eliminate automatic SNAP eligibility for people on TANF, cutting $11.7 billion. Move up the expiration of the SNAP benefit increase that was enacted as part of the 2009 stimulus law (PL 111-5), cutting $5.9 billion BACKGROUND Food Assistance in Southeast Michigan The impact of the economic downturn has been dramatic on to residents across the state and in the county. Today, one in five Michigan residents receives food stamps. According to the Department of Human Services, the number of Macomb County residents receiving food assistance has nearly doubled -- from 67,891 in 2007-2008 to 115,081 in 2009-2010. There has been a nearly fivefold increase in the number of people receiving food stamps in Macomb County since 2002. In total, 14 percent of residents participated in the food stamp program in 2010. In Macomb County, nearly 16 percent of the population, or more than 133,000 people receive food stamps Nearly 18 percent of Macomb residents have inadequate access to food at some point during the year. Our local food banks, Forgotten Harvest and Gleaners, report serving an estimated 489,700 different people annually.
03.23.2012	Millions benefiting from law two years after enactment U.S. Reps. Sander Levin today released a Health Reform Report Card detailing how in the two years since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law it has benefited millions of Michiganders by improving health care coverage and reducing costs. At the same time, the law’s most significant reforms have yet to take effect, including the provision that will prevent private insurers from denying Americans coverage because of a preexisting condition or kicking people off their plan because they get sick. Both provisions become effective in 2014. “Health reform is already ensuring millions of Michiganders benefit from vital discounts on prescription drugs, insurance coverage that was previously unavailable and free preventative care,” said Rep. Levin. “Many of the most important reforms have yet to take effect, including the provision barring insurance companies from denying coverage to people with preexisting conditions or dropping their coverage because they get sick. I will fight at every turn to ensure Congressional Republicans are not successful in their efforts to repeal these landmark reforms.” Affordable Care Act Improving Health Care in Michigan 2011 Report Card REDUCED PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS 84,000 seniors and people with disabilities in the Medicare “donut hole” received an average $580 discount on prescription drugs, totaling $50 million in savings. FREE PREVENTATIVE SERVICES 3 million Michiganders received one or more preventative services, such as check-ups and cancer screenings. Both Medicare enrollees and Americans under age 65 enrolled in private insurance plans have benefitted from this common sense and cost efficient expansion. NO EXCLUDING CHILDREN WITH PREEXISTING CONDITIONS Michigan children with preexisting conditions can no longer be denied coverage, a provision that will cover all ages beginning in 2014. NO LIMIT IN LIFETIME COVERAGE 3.5 million Michiganders benefited from the elimination of lifetime limits in their health insurance coverage. NEW COVERAGE FOR YOUNG ADULTS 57,000 more young adults in Michigan under the age of 26 now have health insurance because of the provision that allows them to get coverage through their parents’ plan. TAX CREDITS FOR SMALL BUSINESSES Michigan small businesses are eligible for a tax credit to cover the cost of providing employee health coverage.
03.21.2012	Press appropriators for $300 million for Great Lakes Restoration Initiative U.S. Reps. Sander Levin and John Dingell have spearheaded an effort for sustained funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative through the Fiscal Year 2013 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. In a bipartisan letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies, Levin and Dingell were joined by 33 House Democrats and Republicans in urging $300 million for the GLRI, a three-year-old effort to protect, restore and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. All six Michigan Democrats signed the letter. A copy of the letter is below. “We have made a long-term commitment to protect and restore the Great Lakes through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative,” said Rep. Levin. “Now is not the time to cut funding for this vital initiative. We have a tough budget year ahead in Congress, so it is more important than ever for everyone who cares about the Great Lakes to stand together and ensure the Great Lakes get the funding they need.” “We must continue to protect our Great Lakes,” said Rep. Dingell. “These waters are a vital environmental and economic resource for America’s sustainability both today and for our future. Funding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative not only provides jobs and business development in the Midwest, it is also fundamentally important to environmental research and economic development for our nation. Most importantly, as all Michiganders know, these waters provide recreational opportunities and tourism in our state. It cannot be overstated that the Great Lakes, which are 20 percent of the world’s fresh water supply, are a treasured natural resource that must be restored and protected.” “With the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding for the region, our rivers, lakes and streams are becoming better protected and restored through habitat enhancement and restoration projects,” said Anne M. Vaara, Executive Director at the Clinton River Watershed Council. “This funding goes directly towards real on the ground projects and not only have made a difference in natural resources but have bolstered the local economy creating jobs and projects keeping our local businesses and engineering and environmental consulting firms at work.” The following letter was sent to Chairman Michael K. Simpson and Ranking Member James Moran of the Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations: Dear Chairman Simpson and Ranking Member Moran, As members of the House Great Lakes Task Force who support a strong, healthy and productive Great Lakes region, we respectfully request that you provide $300 million in funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2013 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. The GLRI is the largest investment in the Great Lakes in two decades and works to protect, restore, and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. The Great Lakes are a unique and invaluable national treasure that produce immeasurable benefits for the region and nation overall. The lakes hold 95 percent of our nation’s supply of fresh water, provide drinking water for 30 million Americans, and produce substantial economic benefits for the region. It is estimated that 1.5 million jobs are directly connected to the Great Lakes, generating $62 billion in wages each year. The region is also responsible for approximately 27 percent of our nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) and 24 percent of U.S. exports annually. Yet, in recent years, the lakes have struggled with invasive species, nonpoint source pollution, toxic chemical contamination and a declining ecosystem that threatens public health, recreational and tourism industries and overall economic growth. Restoring the Great Lakes is a critical component of our nation’s strategy to grow our economy while promoting environmental responsibility. We urge you to support this sensible and productive investment in the economic and environmental health of the eight-state Great Lakes region. Sincerely, Members of Congress
03.20.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the House Republican budget proposal: “The Republican budget proposal on taxes is a dangerous dodge, with only one thing clear: It would end up showering benefits on the very wealthy and soaking the middle class. “The only way to cut the top tax rate to 25 percent is to essentially end the tax deductions for health care coverage, mortgage interest expenses and charitable contributions, even as Republicans would keep the temporary lower rates for capital gains and dividends that mainly benefit very high-income taxpayers. “Under the guise of deficit reduction, Republicans are again attempting to end the Medicare guarantee and shift costs to seniors and people with disabilities. “House Republicans just don’t get it. Medicare is a 47-year-old commitment to seniors that Democrats refuse do away with. Ending it will not bring down health costs, but in fact add to the problem – all the while significantly raising costs for American seniors.”
03.09.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the February jobs report, which showed the economy added 227,000 jobs in February: “Today’s report is another clear sign that our effort to restart America’s jobs machine is working. We are making significant strides yet still have a substantial way to go. “In December 2007, our economy began the most devastating recession in over 70 years. Ever since, Democrats have focused on restoring our economy and creating jobs. The Recovery Act, the rescue of the automotive industry, payroll tax cuts for American workers, assistance for small businesses, financial reform, and help for the unemployed are some of the pro-growth policies that Democrats fought to put in place. Along with the determination and ingenuity of the American people, these initiatives have supported an economic recovery that has created nearly four million new private-sector jobs over the last two years. “Republicans continue to react to good news with sour grapes. That comes as little surprise considering our efforts to restore our economy were often opposed by Congressional Republicans who said we should either do nothing or follow more of the same failed policies that preceded the recession. Republicans’ path was wrong then, and it remains so today, as they refuse to acknowledge the important contribution of the pro-growth policies we have enacted. “Despite the consistent progress we have made, there remain many challenges ahead. Millions of Americans are still struggling to find work. I urge Republicans in Congress to finally join with Democrats and President Obama in our continuing effort to grow our economy, and with it, opportunities for every American.”
03.06.2012	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today regarding the passing of Congressman Donald Payne of New Jersey. “Don Payne was intensely dedicated to his constituents and to his service, especially on the Foreign Affairs Committee. I saw that evidenced in many meetings when he spoke eloquently on a wide range of subjects, from the global effort against AIDS to our country's relations with African nations. His passing leaves a major gap in all of the endeavors to which Don dedicated his public service.”
02.22.2012	State action results in significant loss of federally funded unemployment insurance U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today joined every other member of the Michigan Congressional Delegation in sending letters to state legislative leaders and Gov. Snyder urging them to reverse the Republican action last year that cut Michigan’s unemployment program from 26 weeks to 20 weeks. That cut took effect this year and will cause Michiganders to lose an additional 11-14 weeks of federal unemployment insurance, meaning Michigan’s unemployed workers will lose access to more federal weeks than any state in the nation. The letter to State Senate Majority Leader Randy Richardville, Democratic Leader Gretchen Whitmer, House Speaker Jase Bolger and Democratic Leader Richard Hammel is available here and below. The letter to Gov. Snyder is available here. “With the simple action of restoring the state unemployment program to 26 weeks - the place it was since its inception – you can allow Michigan’s unemployed workers – actively seeking work - to access 100% federally funded unemployment insurance should they need it going forward,” wrote the Michigan Congressional Delegation. “We urge you to act immediately.” FULL TEXT: February 22, 2012 Dear Senators Richardville and Whitmer and Representatives Bolger and Hammel: Last year we expressed our deep concern that the Michigan Legislature passed and you passed legislation to cut the state unemployment insurance program from 26 to 20 weeks. We warned that this misguided action would result in a double benefit cut for unemployed workers in Michigan because the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program is calculated based on a percentage of the underlying state benefits, and urged you to veto that legislation. Unfortunately, the state cut from 26 to 20 weeks went into effect in January and is now negatively impacting Michiganders struggling to find work as our state recovers from the deepest economic recession and financial crisis in decades. Now that a new framework for federal unemployment insurance has been put in place for the remainder of the year through the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, the misguided state action will result in Michigan unemployed workers losing access to more federal weeks than any state in the nation. Because the structure within the federal unemployment program is based on the state program the misguided reduction of six weeks of state benefits will result in Michigan also giving up between 11 and 14 weeks of 100% federally funded benefits this year. As you know, already 47,000 individuals have filed initial state claims for unemployment insurance since the state cut in weeks went into effect. If those individuals need access to the Federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program, they will receive the reduced levels. For example: Total Weeks of unemployment benefits available to Michigan Workers under Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act Weeks of Unemployment Insurance Available to Michigan Workersunder Conference Agreement March thru May June thru August Sept thru December Individual Receiving20 weeksOf State Benefits 69 Weeks 62 weeks 56 weeks Individual Receiving26 weeksOf State Benefits 89 weeks 79 weeks 73 weeks We are pleased that through the Conference Committee, Democrats were able to reject the proposal by House Republicans that would have resulted in Michigan’s unemployed workers receiving only 46 weeks of unemployment insurance for the entire year. But the fact remains that the state law causes a very negative result for Michigan’s unemployed workers that can very easily be reversed by State action. We have confirmed with the U.S. Department of Labor that should Michigan act to change their state law, the federal weeks would be restored going forward for those individuals who receive 26 weeks. Our state economy is turning the corner, our auto companies are posting profits and producing the best cars in the world and other sectors are growing and new ones are emerging, but the bottom line remains that individuals, families and communities are still struggling. Nearly 450,000 Michigan workers remain unemployed and research indicates that in the Midwest there are still four individuals looking for every job opening. With the simple action of restoring the state unemployment program to 26 weeks - the place it was since its inception – you can allow Michigan’s unemployed workers – actively seeking work - to access 100% federally funded unemployment insurance should they need it going forward. We urge you to act immediately. Sincerely, Rep. Sander Levin Sen. Carl Levin Rep. Dale Kildee Rep. Gary Peters Rep. John Dingell Rep. John Conyers Sen. Debbie Stabenow Rep. Hansen Clarke
02.16.2012	Extends payroll tax cut, unemployment insurance through 2012 U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after signing the Conference Committee report on H.R. 3630. A fact sheet on the agreement is available here. Background about the unemployment insurance provisions – with Michigan specific information -- is available here. “We began our work as a Conference Committee in the shadows of a narrowly avoided year-end crisis brought about by Republican intransigence. There was a need to move on all these key elements: to extend the payroll tax cut, maintain the federal unemployment insurance programs and ensure continued access to the doctors of choice for seniors and the disabled. “This agreement provides tax relief to working families, certainty that a framework for unemployment is in place for the year, and a real commitment by Democrats to aggressively continue to pursue efforts to strengthen the economy and boost job growth so that those hardest hit by the recession can return to work as they so desperately want to do.” “We have succeeded in renewing the payroll tax cut that will provide both our economy with a critical boost necessary to continue our recovery and 160 million Americans with a significant increase in their paychecks. “Federal unemployment insurance has provided millions of Americans with a vital lifeline during the economic downturn. The House Republican plan would have slashed federal benefits by nearly half and imposed onerous new barriers to unemployment insurance for those laid off through no fault of their own. This agreement rejects that proposal. It is structured to provide the maximum number of weeks to states hardest hit by the recession and gradually reduce levels of benefits based on unemployment rates in various states. It is far from perfect, but it does maintain vital benefits for those who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. “It prevents cuts to Medicare physician payment rates and ensures seniors can maintain access to their health care providers during the next 10 months. Unfortunately because of Republican opposition, we were unable to achieve a more permanent solution. The agreement rejects the Medicare beneficiary cuts proposed in the House Republican plan and the Republican attempt to undermine health reform’s mission of expanding coverage to millions of Americans.” “In Michigan, the compromise on unemployment insurance illustrates the urgent need for the Governor and State Legislators to change their misguided law from last year that cut state benefits from 26 to 20 weeks. Because of the structure within the federal unemployment program on these type of state cuts, the misguided reduction of six weeks of state benefits will result in Michigan giving up between 11 and 14 weeks of 100% federally funded benefits this year. Because of this misguided state action that went into effect in January, Michigan’s unemployed workers will lose access to more federal weeks than any state in the nation. I urge our state leaders to act quickly to change our state law.”
02.14.2012	Legislation would fix loophole that enables private equity managers to pay reduced income tax rates Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today is introduced the Carried Interest Fairness Act of 2012, legislation to fix the carried interest loophole and ensure that income earned managing other people's money is taxed at the same ordinary income tax rates as the income earned by millions of other Americans for services that they provide. Certain investment managers – including private equity managers – now benefit from a loophole that allows them to pay a reduced 15 percent tax rate on income received as compensation, rather than ordinary income tax rates up to 35 percent that all other Americans pay. There is absolutely no reason why income earned for managing other people's money shouldn't be taxed in the same way as income earned teaching or working in a factory," said Rep. Levin. "This loophole for years has unfairly enabled some of the highest-paid individuals in the country to sharply reduce their tax bills and it is time to close it once and for all. Text of the legislation and a technical explanation are available online. Background of the legislation and Timeline of previous legislative efforts to close the loophole follow below. Also included are a Myths vs. Facts document and Key Quotes about the need to address the issue. BACKGROUND The Carried Interest Fairness Act of 2012 The Carried Interest Fairness Act provides that the “carried interest” compensation received by investment fund managers will be taxed at ordinary income rates and treated as wage income subject to employment taxes. In exchange for providing the service of managing their investors’ assets, fund managers often take a portion of a fund’s profits, or a carried interest, usually equal to 20 percent of such profits. The bill clarifies that this income is subject to ordinary income tax rates rather than the much lower capital gains rate. Why is Congress concerned about this issue? Many investment funds are structured as partnerships in which investors become limited partners and the funds’ managers are the general partner. The managers often take a considerable portion of their compensation for managing the funds’ investments as a share of the funds’ profits; this profits interest is often referred to as a “carried interest.” Partnership profits are not taxed at the partnership level; instead, partners are taxed on their share of partnership income. The character of that income (capital or ordinary) is determined at the partnership level and “flows-through” to the partners. Where a significant portion of an investment fund’s profits are long-term capital gains, investment managers who are compensated with a carried interest are able to take advantage of the 15 percent long-term capital gains rate on income they receive for the performance of services. Essentially they are able to pay a lower tax rate than other Americans on income from their work simply because of the structure of their firm. What does the legislation do? It clarifies that any income received from a partnership, capital or otherwise, in compensation for services is ordinary income for tax purposes. As a result, managers of investment partnerships who receive a carried interest as compensation will pay ordinary income tax rates, rather than capital gains rates, on that compensation. The capital gains rate will continue to apply to the extent that a manager’s allocation of capital gain income represents a return on capital they have invested in the partnership. In the case of the sale of manager’s interest in an investment management firm, the Carried Interest Fairness Act has been reviewed and revised from previous versions to provide that where there is a clearly separable and verifiable element of goodwill, such as where there is a separate management entity, the manager will receive capital gains treatment for that portion of the gain on the sale. The goal is to ensure that all investment managers are treated in a manner consistent with other taxpayers who start and eventually sell a business, and work is ongoing in conjunction with the Joint Committee on Taxation to determine if that standard can be met in other cases. What kinds of investment firms will be affected? This bill serves the broader goal of tax fairness. The principle at work is that compensation for services should be treated as ordinary income and taxed accordingly, regardless of its source. Any investment manager that takes a share of an investment fund’s profits as its compensation (i.e., in the form of a carried interest), will be affected. This rule will apply to investment management firms without regard to the type of assets they manage, whether they are financial assets or real estate. The key issue is the form of compensation (i.e., a profits interest given for investment management services), not the type of assets the firm is managing, its investment strategy, or the amount of compensation involved. TIMELINE Timeline of Action on Carried Interest Legislation: June 22, 2007 – Rep. Levin introduces H.R. 2834 to treat carried interest as ordinary income. Original co-sponsors include Ways & Means Chairman Rangel and Financial Services Chairman Frank. Nov. 9, 2007 – The House of Representatives approves carried interest legislation as part of H.R. 3996, which included tax extenders, an AMT “patch” and other provisions. June 25, 2008 – The House of Representatives approves carried interest legislation as part of H.R. 6275, the Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008. April 2, 2009 – Rep. Levin reintroduces legislation to treat carried interest as ordinary income (H.R. 1935) for the 111th Congress. Dec. 9, 2009 – The House of Representatives approves carried interest legislation as part of H.R. 4213, which extended various expiring tax provisions. May 28, 2010 – The House of Representatives approves carried interest legislation as part of amendments to the Senate-passed version of H.R. 4213. Feb. 14, 2012 – Rep. Levin introduces Carried Interest Fairness Act. Downloads » LEVIN_Carried_Interest.pdf» Description_of_Carried_Interest_Fairness_Act_Feb_14_Levin.pdf
02.14.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after House Republican leaders announced they are preparing to bring forward a bill to extend the payroll tax cut while leaving behind federal unemployment insurance and the so-called doc-fix. It’s unfortunate that House Republican leaders are manufacturing another crisis even as the Conference Committee continues to do its work. It’s completely irresponsible to leave behind nearly five million unemployed Americans whose benefits will expire and 47 million seniors and disabled Americans whose access to health care would be jeopardized. House Republicans chose the go-it-alone path in December to nearly disastrous effect and American families cannot afford a repeat performance.
02.04.2012	Close to 30 states will follow Michigan and lose some Unemployment Insurance in first six months of 2012 Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin, a member of the Conference Committee responsible for the extension of the Unemployment Insurance program and the payroll tax cut, issued the following statement regarding the news that 30,000 Michiganders would no longer qualify for the last 20 weeks of the Federal Extended Benefit Unemployment Insurance (UI) program as of February 18, 2012. “This is the first wave of tens of thousands of laid-off workers losing their unemployment insurance unless the UI program is extended in Washington these next weeks in a sound and sensitive manner. “Unfortunately, the two-month extension of unemployment insurance contained a three-year look back provision for evaluating a state’s eligibility for the extended benefit program which disadvantaged states like Michigan that have experienced prolonged periods of high unemployment. If the federal extended benefit program is not fixed in the conference committee, close to 30 states will follow Michigan and lose access to this program in the first six months of 2012. “What makes the situation even more dire, in this period of the highest percentage of long-term unemployed on record, is that the plan passed by the House Republicans in December and promoted by Republicans in Conference Committee negotiations would eliminate a full 40 weeks of unemployment insurance. In Michigan, this would result in a reduction to 46 weeks of unemployment insurance because the Governor earlier signed a bill reducing the state program from 26 to 20 weeks. “While there is good news in Friday’s jobs report that the unemployment rate is going down in the nation and in Michigan, the State unemployment rate of 9.3% is still the 12th highest in the nation. The fact that in the Midwest there are still four unemployed Americans for every job opening illustrates why it is vital to extend the UI program nationally and to fix the unemployment insurance program for high unemployment states. We must recognize that while the economy is getting better, we are digging out of the largest jobs ditch since the Great Depression and now is not the time to abandon families looking for work during this recovery.” Because this debate has been going on for months, State officials were well aware of the impact of the look-back provision on Michigan and should not have been “caught off guard,” as indicated by a State spokesperson. To fully make sure that our nation and our state are fully on guard in the coming weeks in confronting the expiration of unemployment insurance, we need to go beyond the numbers. Since we cannot obtain the names of the unemployed, it is important that their stories be told. My office has been collecting stories from the unemployed for months and I strongly encourage individuals and their families to continue to be in touch through the e-Call to Extend Unemployment Insurance at https://democrats.waysandmeans.house.gov/extendui or through the Extend UI Facebook page www.facebook.com/ExtendUI BACKGROUND The Extended Benefits program – which provides up to 20 weeks of federal unemployment insurance – determines states’ eligibility in part through a “look-back” provision that compares the latest three-month average unemployment rate in each state with the three-month average from the previous three years. States whose unemployment rates are not 10 percent higher during the current period than any of the previous three years become ineligible for Extended Benefits even though, in many cases, their unemployment rates remain stubbornly high. The Extended Benefits program is the last 20 weeks of unemployment insurance after an individual has exhausted the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program and is still looking for work. At just under $300 a week, the average unemployment benefit nationally equals only one-third of the average weekly wage, and reaches only 70% of the poverty line for a family of four.
02.03.2012	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the January jobs report, which showed the economy gained 243,000 jobs last month, including 50,000 in the manufacturing sector alone: “Today’s strong report provides yet more positive news about our improving economy and the significant role that manufacturing is playing in our recovery. Our economy is on the way back, but many Americans are still struggling to recover from an historic recession. In less than four weeks, the payroll tax cut expires for 160 million Americans and unemployment insurance expires for five million jobless Americans. Failure to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance through the remainder of the year would do significant harm to families throughout the country and our economy as a whole – just as it gains vital momentum.”
01.18.2012	Gov. Romney likely benefits from loophole for private equity managers Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) has twice authored legislation – which he will reintroduce again this year – to tax carried interest compensation at the same ordinary income tax rates paid by other Americans. Certain investment managers – including private equity managers – now benefit from a loophole that allows them to pay a reduced 15 percent tax rate on income received as compensation, rather than ordinary income tax rates up to 35 percent that all other Americans pay. Rep. Levin first introduced the measure in 2007 and it has passed the U.S. House four times as part of broader measures since then. It has yet to pass the Senate. “Gov. Romney’s statement that his tax rate is close to 15 percent likely reflects that he has benefited from a loophole that we have been trying to close for years,” said Rep. Levin. “In 2007 I introduced legislation to close that loophole and it has passed the House four times as part of broader measures. When Gov. Romney says his tax rate mostly reflects returns on his own investment, he needs to clarify how much this is truly money that he invested himself and how much is carried interest income that he earned managing other people’s money. Conflating the two is at the heart of this tax equity debate.” In exchange for providing the service of managing their investors’ assets, fund managers often receive a portion – usually 20 percent – of the fund’s profits, or carried interest. Rep. Levin’s legislation clarifies that this income is subject to ordinary income tax rates rather than the much lower capital gains rate. Timeline of Action on Carried Interest Legislation: June 22, 2007 – Rep. Levin introduces H.R. 2834 to treat carried interest as ordinary income. Original co-sponsors include Ways & Means Chairman Rangel and Financial Services Chairman Frank. Nov. 9, 2007 – The House of Representatives approves carried interest legislation as part of H.R. 3996, which included tax extenders, an AMT “patch” and other provisions. June 22, 2008 – The House of Representatives approves carried interest legislation as part of H.R. 6275, the Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008. April 2, 2009 – Rep. Levin reintroduces legislation to treat carried interest as ordinary income (H.R. 1935) for the 111th Congress. Dec. 9, 2009 – The House of Representatives approves carried interest legislation as part of H.R. 4213, which extended various expiring tax provisions. May 28, 2010 – The House of Representatives approves carried interest legislation as part of amendments to the Senate-passed version of H.R. 4213. 2012 – Rep. Levin to reintroduce carried interest legislation.
01.09.2012	House Democrats on the payroll tax cut conference committee—Congressman Chris Van Hollen, Congressman Sander Levin, Congressman Xavier Becerra, Congresswoman Allyson Schwartz, and Congressman Henry Waxman—sent a letter today to Congressman Dave Camp, the Chairman of the conference committee and Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, calling for work developing the legislation to begin now and reiterating that they are available to meet at any time. As the conferees write: The clock is ticking on this urgent priority. The last thing the American people, or the American economy, needs is another unnecessary and avoidable crisis like those we faced repeatedly in 2011. Because the Conference Committee has responsibility to develop this legislation, we should be working on that legislation now, not waiting for weeks, even if Congress is not formally in session. Last week, we, the House Democratic conferees declared we were in Washington, ready to meet at any time to begin that process. We reiterate that offer today. There is no excuse for delaying the work of the Conference Committee. The American people want jobs; we should be working to create them. Below is the full text of the letter. January 9, 2012 The Honorable Dave Camp Chairman House Committee on Ways and Means United States House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Camp: The payroll tax cut for 160 million Americans expires in only a few weeks. So, too, does assistance to those unemployed Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own, as well as access for millions of seniors to their Medicare doctors. The clock is ticking on this urgent priority. The last thing the American people, or the American economy, needs is another unnecessary and avoidable crisis like those we faced repeatedly in 2011. Because the Conference Committee has responsibility to develop this legislation, we should be working on that legislation now, not waiting for weeks, even if Congress is not formally in session. Last week, we, the House Democratic conferees declared we were in Washington, ready to meet at any time to begin that process. We reiterate that offer today. There is no excuse for delaying the work of the Conference Committee. The American people want jobs; we should be working to create them. Thank you for your attention to our urgent request, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Chris Van Hollen Sander Levin Xavier Becerra Allyson Schwartz Henry Waxman
01.03.2012	Former Staffer Led Levin’s First Campaign for State Senate in 1960s Bea Sacks, a long-time member of Rep. Sander Levin’s staff, passed away this afternoon. She was 92. Ms. Sacks, of Huntington Woods, served as Rep. Levin’s first campaign manager in his successful bid for the State Senate in the 1960s and was a member of his Congressional staff from Rep. Levin’s first day in office in 1983 until her retirement in 2005. Statement from Rep. Levin: “Bea Sacks was an unstoppable force in the education, political and religious communities in which she played an integral role for decades. She inspired by doing, and she did so by empowering others to work with her, especially younger people. After my late wife Vicki and Bea worked together on the successful Berkley Better Schools campaign in the 60s, I asked Bea to manage my first campaign for State Senate, which began decades of collaborative endeavors. The entire Levin family, staff and alumni send our deepest condolences to Bea’s family, the center of her life.” Downloads » Bea Sacks Bio.pdf
12.23.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee, today was appointed to the Conference Committee tasked with negotiating a year-long extension of the payroll tax cut and federal unemployment insurance. “Today’s action to extend the payroll tax cut and federal unemployment insurance was a vitally important step to provide families with a measure of certainty as they gather for the holidays,” said Rep. Levin. “As an appointee to the Conference Committee, I will work actively to address outstanding issues in ways that will ensure a full-year extension of tax relief for the middle class and federal unemployment insurance.” The other Democratic House members appointed to the Conference Committee: Rep. Xavier Becerra (CA), Vice Chair, House Democratic Caucus Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD), Ranking Member, Budget Committee Rep. Allyson Schwartz (PA), Vice Ranking Member, Budget Committee Rep. Henry Waxman (CA), Ranking Member, Energy and Commerce Committee
12.22.2011	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement concerning the agreement to extend the payroll tax cut, federal unemployment insurance and the Medicare physician payment fix: The voices of the American people have been clearly heard. Millions of American families can now gather for the holidays without the uncertainty of a looming tax increase on Jan. 1 or an immediate loss of their federal unemployment insurance while they look for work. The longer term issues can now be addressed.
12.20.2011	The Dec. 31 expiration of the 2 percent payroll tax cut, federal unemployment insurance programs and Medicare’s sustainable growth rate will affect nearly every American family within just days. The following lays out how that would unfold should Republicans continue to block the short-term extension that passed with an overwhelming 89 Senate votes. Full state-by-state breakdowns are available below for the payroll tax cut and federal unemployment insurance programs. PAYROLL TAX CUT Starting Jan. 1, 160 million workers’ take-home pay will be reduced by 2 percent to reflect the increase in payroll withholding taxes from 4.2 percent to 6.2 percent. A state-by-state breakdown of how many taxpayers in each state will be hit with a tax increase and what the average tax hike will be is available here. FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE After Dec. 31, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program will no longer provide benefits to individuals exhausting regular, State-provided unemployment benefits. (State benefits last for 26 weeks in most States.) As of Nov. 26, there were 3.8 million Americans receiving state unemployment benefits, according to the Department of Labor. After Jan. 7, the EUC program will no longer allow recipients to transition into the next tier of the program. After this date, EUC recipients will only be allowed to finish their current tier of EUC benefits. EUC has four tiers lasting 20 weeks, 14 weeks, 13 weeks and 6 weeks. Through Nov. 26, there were 3 million Americans receiving unemployment insurance through the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, according to the Department of Labor. The Extended Benefits (EB) Program, which provides a maximum of 20 weeks of benefits in States with higher levels of unemployment, is operational now in 34 States. Nearly all of these States are triggered on to this program because of two temporary provisions that are expiring at the end of the year. EB is now temporarily operating with 100 percent federal funding and with a 3-year (rather than 2-year) look back requirement, which requires that States have unemployment rates higher than in the past. When these two provisions expire, the EB program will shut down in nearly every State in the first few weeks of January (the exact date will be determined by State law). Through Nov. 26, there were 593,097 Americans receiving unemployment insurance through the Extended Benefits program, according to the Department of Labor. The Department of Labor projects that if Congress fails to extend these EUC and EB provisions nearly 700,000 people will lose their unemployment benefits by the second week of January and nearly 2.2 million will lose benefits by the middle of February. A full State-by-State breakdown is available here. MEDICARE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH RATE AND OTHER HEALTH EXTENDERS While the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services has announced plans to delay processing of physician claims in the hope a fix will soon be enacted, they can only do so until Jan. 17 when they will have to start paying at lower rates with a 27 percent cut. Jan. 17 is the very day the House convenes for the 2nd session of the 112th Congress, which means there will be no opportunity for Congress to pass a fix before the cut kicks in. If House Republicans continue to block a short term extension, the following will take place: 650,000 physician and practitioners would see payment delays and a 27 percent cut in payments when payments are made. Over 800 rural hospitals would lose eligibility for “hold harmless” payments that help cover the cost of outpatient hospitals services and roughly 90 hospitals would receive payments that do not reflect the competitive wage environment in which they operate. Physical therapists, occupational therapists and speech language pathologists would no longer be allowed to use an exceptions process that protects seriously injured patients from hitting an arbitrary dollar cap on therapy services and halting their access to needed care later in the year. Over half a million (520,000) low-income Medicare beneficiaries would no longer receive financial assistance with their Medicare premiums.
12.19.2011	Meets funding level requested by Reps. Levin, Dingell Congress has approved $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative as part of the final spending package that cleared the House of Representatives and Senate late last week and is expected to be signed into law by President Obama. The funding level – equal to the amount provided in 2011 – met the request spearheaded by Michigan lawmakers Sander Levin and John Dingell to not cut funding for the program in 2012. “Michigan has a huge stake in the success of this effort to protect the Great Lakes and it is vital that we continue to provide strong support through sustained levels of funding,” said Rep. Levin. Now entering its third year, the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) is the largest investment in the Great Lakes in two decades. The program provides critical funding to programs that clean up contaminated sediments, improve water quality, combat invasive species, protect watersheds from polluted run-off, and restore wetlands and other valuable habitats in the Great Lakes. The GLRI is supporting implementation of a comprehensive, bipartisan restoration strategy that is broadly endorsed by the Great Lakes states, cities, tribes, conservation groups, and business and industry. The GLRI is also emerging as an important source of funding for restoration of Lake St. Clair. In late August, the Environmental Protection Agency announced four Great Lakes Restoration Initiative grants totaling $2.2 million to organizations, agencies, and universities working in the Detroit area, including two projects to improve water quality and reduce storm water runoff into Lake St. Clair. The program has been a priority for Michigan Representatives Sander Levin and John Dingell. In November, Levin and Dingell led a push for sustained funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative as the funding bill for the Environmental Protection Agency was finalized. Their letter to the House Appropriations Committee received key bipartisan backing from two of the Co-Chairs of the Great Lakes Task Force in the House of Representatives, Representative Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and Representative Sean Duffy (R-WI). Michigan Representatives Conyers, Kildee, Peters and Clarke also co-signed the letter. On a related matter, Congress provided a total of $1.4 billion for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund program for 2012. Michigan’s Clean Water Revolving Fund will receive roughly $61.6 million on this money. The state revolving funds – which receive most of their capitalization funds through annual appropriations from Congress – provide extremely low-cost financing for local water infrastructure projects. As of October 1, 2011, the Michigan Revolving Fund has provided low interest loans for 433 projects, totaling $3.7 billion.
12.17.2011	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement concerning the proposed two-month extension of the payroll tax cut and federal unemployment insurance and protecting access under Medicare: A two-month extension of unemployment insurance and the payroll tax cut is wholly inadequate as the American people digging out of the deepest recession in decades deserve much more certainty and compassion about their economic distress. Medicare patients also deserve to know after a lifetime of hard work that their doctors will be there when they need them. "During this two-month period, workers in some of the hardest-hit states – including Michigan, Ohio, Indiana and Missouri – are projected to lose access to the 20-week Extended Benefits program and with very little warning tens of thousands of long-term unemployed Americans will be cut off unemployment insurance. “This is a result of the complete unwillingness of Republicans to ask the very wealthy to sacrifice some of their tax breaks to help get our economy back on a more stable footing. At every turn, whether it is jobs legislation or deficit reduction, the consistent priority of the Republican majority is protecting the tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. “Our nation’s workers thrown out of jobs through no fault of their own deserve better. BACKGROUND The Extended Benefits program – which provides up to 20 weeks of federal unemployment insurance – determines states’ eligibility in part through a “look-back” provision that compares the latest three-month average unemployment rate in each state with the three-month average from the previous three years. States whose unemployment rates are not 10 percent higher during the current period than any of the previous three years become ineligible for Extended Benefits even though, in many cases, their unemployment rates remain stubbornly high. Many states, including Michigan, Ohio and Indiana are projected to become ineligible – through that three-year look-back – within the first few months of the year. Unaddressed in the short-term extension is a change that ensures that workers in the hardest hit states don’t become ineligible for Extended Benefits. Instead, H.R. 3346 would extend federal unemployment insurance through 2012 and ensure Americans don’t fall off Extended Benefits just because their state’s unemployment rate, while remaining high, hasn’t continued to grow.
12.16.2011	Rep. Levin led effort to maintain the program The U.S. House today is poised to pass a defense funding bill that includes $255 million to maintain production of the Abrams tank, a cornerstone of Michigan’s defense industrial base for 30 years. The Senate is expected to pass the bill shortly thereafter and be signed into law by President Obama. The passage of the legislation would fund tank upgrades at a rate of 70 per year – the level sought by Rep. Levin – and mark a major victory for advocates of the program, which the Pentagon proposed to halt until 2017. “This is an important victory for Michigan and the nation,” said Rep. Levin, who led the fight this year to continue funding for the tank program. “The tank upgrade program is critical to ensuring our troops are protected on the battlefield and vital to Southeast Michigan’s defense corridor.” Earlier this year, after three decades of building, upgrading and improving the Abrams main battle tank, the Pentagon proposed to halt tank upgrades in 2013 and then restart tank production in 2017. Such a move could ultimately cost taxpayers more than just maintaining tank upgrades at a rate of 70 tanks per year. Tank advocates in Congress, including Rep. Levin and Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), urged the House Appropriations Committee to include additional funding to keep tank production going, spearheading a letter in May that was signed by 135 other members and cautioned Army Secretary John McHugh about halting production. The tank funding is included in the end-of-year Omnibus funding agreement moving through Congress. The funding bill up for approval in the House today includes an additional $255 million for tank production, bringing total funding for the Abrams program to $423 million, which is enough to continue building 70 tanks. The measure is expected to clear the Senate shortly and be signed into law by President Obama. The Abrams tank program is run by General Dynamics Land Systems based in Sterling Heights and more than 200 Michigan businesses provide parts and engineering services to upgrade older M1 tanks to the more advanced M1A2 SEP version of the vehicle.
11.02.2011	Service Events in St. Clair Shores and Ferndale on Wednesday, Thursday ROSEVILLE – Staff for U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) will be hosting Community Office Hours on Wednesday and Thursday in St. Clair Shores and Ferndale. Local residents are encouraged to attend if they need assistance from the office on federal matters. Staff will be available to assist residents who may be having difficulty with a federal agency, including Social Security, Medicare, Veterans, passports and foreclosure issues. In addition, local residents may share their view on federal issues, update staff on local projects and learn about services the office provides such as Washington D.C. tours, internship opportunities, purchasing American flags and Service Academy nominations. COMMUNITY OFFICE HOURS ST CLAIR SHORES Wednesday, Nov. 2 5 p.m. – 7 p.m. St. Clair Shores Public Library 22500 Eleven Mile Road St. Clair Shores 48081 FERNDALE Thursday, Nov. 3 5 p.m. – 7 p.m. Ferndale Public Library 222 E. Nine Mile Rd. Ferndale 48220
11.01.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) joined with Reps. John Dingell (D-MI) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) in leading a push for sustained funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative as the 2012 Interior-Environment Appropriations Bill is finalized. The House earlier this year began to consider the measure – and adopted an amendment to increase funding for the GLRI to $300 million – but failed to complete action. In a letter sent Tuesday, Reps. Levin, Dingell and Slaughter urged to Appropriations Committee leaders to “make Great Lakes restoration funding a priority” as they finalize funding for the 2012 fiscal year. A bipartisan group of 25 House lawmakers from five Great Lakes states cosigned the letter. Other Michigan members signing included Reps. Conyers, Clarke, Kildee and Peters. “Michigan has a huge stake in the health of the Great Lakes,” said Rep. Levin. “We’re sending this letter to the Appropriations Committee to underscore that funding for Great Lakes restoration needs to be a priority as they complete the 2012 spending bills.” “The Great Lakes congressional delegation has been instrumental in making Great Lakes restoration a national priority,” said Jeff Skelding, campaign director for the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition. “The letter led by Reps. Sandy Levin (Mich.), John Dingell (Mich.) and Louise Slaughter (N.Y.) underscores the bi-partisan and continuing support for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is essential to protect and restore the Lakes that supply drinking water to more than 30 million people. This restoration effort is producing results, but there is more to do. If we cut funding now, it will only cost more later because projects will be harder and more expensive the longer we wait.” The following letter was sent today: Nov. 1, 2011 Dear Chairmen Rogers and Simpson and Ranking Members Dicks and Moran: As Members of Congress who support investment in the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes region, we respectfully request that you include sustained funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative as you finalize the Fiscal Year 2012 Interior-Environment Appropriations bill. The Great Lakes are the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth and hold 90 percent of our nation’s supply of fresh surface water. The lakes provide invaluable recreational opportunities and support shipping, fishing, boating and tourism industries that generate 1.5 million jobs and $62 billion in wages. Restoring the Great Lakes advances our regional strategy to create jobs, stimulate economic development and invest in freshwater resources and waterfront communities. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) is the largest investment in the Great Lakes in two decades and provides critical funding to programs that clean up contaminated sediments, improve water quality, combat invasive species, protect watersheds from polluted run-off, and restore wetlands and other valuable habitats in the Great Lakes. The GLRI is supporting implementation of a comprehensive, bipartisan restoration strategy that is broadly endorsed by the Great Lakes states, cities, tribes, conservation groups, and business and industry. We realize that budget resources are tight this year; however, we urge you to make Great Lakes restoration a funding priority. During the recent consideration of the Interior-Environment funding bill in the House, a bipartisan majority of House members supported the LaTourette amendment to increase funding for the GLRI to $300 million, which is still $50 million below the President’s request for this program. Sustained funding for the GLRI in Fiscal Year 2012 will encourage continued investments and help ensure the success of this important restoration program. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, LOUISE SLAUGHTER JOHN DINGELL SANDER LEVIN Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Other signatories: John Conyers, Hansen Clarke, Dale Kildee, Gwen Moore, Brian Higgins, Robert Dold, Janice Schakowsky, Dennis Kucinich, Marcia Fudge, Tim Ryan, Charles Rangel, Gary Peters, Danny Davis, Mike Quigley, Jesse Jackson, Sean Duffy, Bill Owens, Betty Sutton, Kathleen Hochul, Daniel Lipinski, Paul Tonko, Luis Gutierrez. Downloads » GLRI support ltr pdf.pdf
10.27.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement regarding the passing of Howard Wolpe: I’m shocked and saddened by the news of Howard Wolpe’s death. Howard approached his work in Congress with intelligence, intensity, honesty and a complete devotion to improving the lives of working families and individuals around the globe. He was a model public servant who thoroughly enjoyed his Michigan roots. His work promoting racial justice, conflict resolution and equal opportunity was a common thread throughout his career and the world is a better place because of it.
10.25.2011	Opening Statement of Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) Hearing on U.S.-China Economic Relationship Committee on Ways and Means American exports to China have been growing, and we need that export growth to create American jobs. At the same time: • China exports four times as much as the United States exports to China • China’s exports increasingly compete in key areas with American products; and • China continues to erect barriers to our exports. The current relationship is imbalanced, unfair, and unsustainable. This trade deficit contributes to the jobs deficit in America, and the American people want Congress to take action to address it. For many years now the economic relationship between our two large economies was built on a Chinese economy structured on its export platform overwhelming the role and importance of domestic Chinese consumption, with the U.S. economy significantly built on its role as the major consumption market for Chinese products. Sensing some of the perils in that economic structure, a decade ago when China entered the WTO, some of us in Congress understood that inclusion of a major non-market economy into a rules-based trading system presented unprecedented challenges. To meet those challenges, we fought for inclusion of tools to strengthen our hand in ensuring that China played by the rules. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration and the Republican Congress made clear early on they preferred a “hands off” approach to China. That was reflected in acquiescing in China's making a mockery out of the special provision provided for in China's WTO accession for an annual review of whether China was meeting its obligations. Another vivid example was the failure to use the safeguard against surges in Chinese imports that harm U.S. industries and workers. On four occasions, the ITC recommended relief. On all four occasions, the Bush Administration refused. Thousands of American jobs were lost. Knowing the Bush Administration preferred a “hands off” approach helped embolden China to continue trade distorting practices that target our market, our companies and our workers. Thankfully, the Obama Administration resurrected the 421 safeguard in the tires case. The Administration is trying to turn the ship in the right direction. But the process is too slow, and there is still too much resistance in Congress and elsewhere. The American people expect their representatives to actively manage this trading relationship. They expect us to fight for a level playing field for American companies and workers. So I appreciate Chairman Camp’s interest in hearing about the Administration’s plans at today’s hearing, but let us remember that the Constitution gives Congress exclusive power over foreign trade. That means Congress must act to help end a variety of China's predatory trade practices. One of them is China's currency manipulation. House Democrats insist on action because it matters. Fred Bergsten recently described China’s currency policy as “by far the largest protectionist measure adopted by any country since the Second World War – and probably in all of history.” He estimated that eliminating the misalignment would “produce at least a million good jobs, mainly in manufacturing.” In recent years, some of our Republican colleagues have come to agree about the seriousness of this problem. And, last fall, the House passed its currency bill with strong majorities of both parties voting in favor (348 to 79) – including myself and Chairman Camp. Chairman Camp and other Committee Republicans agreed with us that substantial amendments made the bill, on its face, consistent with our international obligations. The Senate has now followed the House by passing legislation to address this problem. Now it is the House’s turn to act by once again passing its bill, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, which is co-sponsored by a majority of this chamber– 230 Members. Because currency is not China’s only predatory and trade-distorting policy, that cannot be an excuse for refusal to act on it. The House leadership must stop using that excuse. Nor does acting on it mean not acting on other key issues: intellectual property rights, indigenous innovation, trade-distorting subsidies, discriminatory product standards, among others. But it is alarming how difficult it is to move beyond rhetorical support to bipartisan action. That is why I and 34 other Democratic Members this year sought an additional $3.2 million for USTR’s China enforcement. Unfortunately, my Republican colleagues were unwilling to join that request. Last week, one industry – solar panel producers - decided they could no longer wait for us to stand up for them, and took action on their own. Some will now decry that action as protectionist, futile, or anti-consumer. I call it anti-protectionist, standing up for American workers and our future. This Committee should consider other trade-related legislation, and for the record there has been filed a package of legislative proposals. (In addition to the currency bill and a request for additional appropriations, the package includes reinstituting the so-called “Super 301” enforcement mechanism; a bipartisan bill to address antidumping and countervailing duty evasion; and a bill to strengthen reciprocity in government procurement.) In short, the American people expect us to fight for them. They don’t want us to take a “hands off” approach to American competitiveness. It is time to act.
10.17.2011	State Action Could Jeopardize Another 53 Weeks of Federal Unemployment Insurance U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today sent a letter to Gov. Rick Snyder urging him to oppose a Republican proposal in the Michigan State Legislature that would cut state unemployment checks by as much as 67 percent and end state workers eligibility for federal unemployment insurance, which now provides as much as 53 weeks to the long-term unemployed in Michigan. The bill, HB 4781, passed out of a state House committee this summer. It comes at a particularly bad time for Michigan’s unemployed, half of whom have been out of work for longer than six months amid a daunting economic climate. Furthermore, in March, Michigan became the first state in the country to reduce the length of state unemployment insurance – from 26 weeks to 20 weeks. “It is unconscionable to eliminate a combined 59 weeks of unemployment compensation for Michigan workers, who have suffered through the worst recession in their lifetimes and are desperate for new opportunities,” Rep. Levin wrote in the letter. “Instead of continuing to harm the unemployed, we must accelerate job creation efforts like those outlined in the President’s American Jobs Act, which combines tax relief for workers and businesses and critical investments to rebuild our infrastructure.”
10.11.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today delivered the following statement to reporters calling for House GOP leaders to act on China currency reform legislation: “It’s clear to me momentum for China currency reform is building. The need continues to be intense. We know the Chinese trade deficit figure continues to grow, last year reaching $275 billion. Job losses in manufacturing have been estimated at over a million jobs lost. And in the Senate as we know there’s been a bipartisan effort to push this measure forward and it looks like it will reach fruition. Nothing is ever sure in the Senate or in the House but it appears that’s what’s likely to happen. “So I think the pressure will mount here in the House to act. We have 225 co-sponsors to the House bill that I introduced. The Senate bill incorporates our bill and has additional provisions relating to anti-dumping and others, and my hope is that the Senate will pass its bill and that the House will then take up our bill that is currently subject to a discharge petition. But I hope that won’t be necessary and that the House Republicans will not stand in the way of action. As the Speaker once said let the majority speak its mind and exercise its will, and then any differences between the two pieces of legislation could be worked out in consultation with the White House. So, as I said the momentum is very much increasing. “Let me just add, I know the attack is that it would start a trade war. I was interested to read Robert Samuelson’s statement that the trade war has already begun but only one side is fighting. I don’t think we want to fight, I think we want to compete actively and vigorously.”
10.07.2011	Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement after the release of the September jobs report: Today’s report highlights the urgent need for House Republicans to finally get off the sidelines and take action to jolt economic growth and job creation. In the nine months since they took control of the House, Republicans have not brought a single jobs bill to the floor. The American Jobs Act – by all indications – would provide a significant economic boost at a time when far too many Americans continue to look for work. Republicans must bring it up for a vote immediately. Our economic recovery hangs in the balance.
10.05.2011	Opening Statement of Ranking Member Sander Levin (Remarks as Prepared) “The Agreements we are considering today are different than those negotiated by the Bush Administration. While Republicans were willing to support flawed agreements, Democrats used the intervening period to attempt to fix them so they work for U.S. businesses and workers and spread the benefits of trade more broadly. “There was no delay – there were active efforts to hammer out good trade policy. “If the South Korea agreement as originally negotiated by the Bush administration had been approved, the FTA would not have broken down the iron barrier to U.S. products in the automotive sector, which represented 75 percent of the large U.S. trade deficit with South Korea. “The Korea FTA – very different as re-done by the Obama Administration – now opens South Korea’s market to U.S. automotive products and sets an important precedent for ensuring trade agreements replace one-way trade with two-way trade for American products. With those changes, I support the agreement. “If the Panama FTA as originally negotiated by the Bush administration had been approved, the FTA would have been without the successful efforts of the Obama administration and congressional Democrats, which culminated with Panama this year bringing its labor laws into compliance with international labor standards. Also missing would have been the successful efforts to address our concerns about Panama’s status as a tax haven now rectified by Panama signing a Tax Information Exchange Agreement. That trade agreement now deserves our support. “Colombian workers have long been without their basic rights due to a combination of inadequate laws, labor-related violence and impunity. “Workers need basic labor rights to improve their financial standing and climb the economic ladder. This is critical to increasing U.S. exports and jobs. The development of a middle class creates consumers and robust markets for our products and services. It is also vital to U.S. workers who are correct in asserting they should not unfairly compete with workers whose rights are suppressed. “Unfortunately, the Bush administration believed trade was an end — in and of itself — and rejected including meaningful workers’ rights and environmental standards in trade agreements. “The U.S.-Colombia relationship is important in both economic and security terms, and the agreement provides new market opportunities. What prevented action was that despite the fact that the FTA opened some important markets for American products, it failed to address a fundamental shortcoming in terms of U.S. trade policy. “The Action Plan Related to Labor Rights announced by President Obama and President Santos in April was a step toward addressing these basic problems. “As I will spell out when we get to the Colombia FTA, there remain troubling problems with how Colombia is addressing key elements related to the Action Plan. The flaws are magnified by the failure to incorporate the Action Plan in the Implementation Bill as a result of the adamant refusal of Republicans — and the Obama administration’s acquiescence to that refusal. “As a result, the U.S-Colombia FTA remains fundamentally flawed and I oppose it.” During during the question and answer session of today’s markup of the free trade agreements with South Korea, Panama and Colombia Congresman Levin made regarding Why Action Plan on Labor Rights Should be Part of Implementing Bill “The basic issue that has held up consideration of the Colombia FTA is that Colombian workers have long been without basic labor rights. This is a function of a number of factors – the extreme levels of violence against workers and their leaders, near-universal lack of accountability for such acts, and extensive deficiencies in labor law and practice. “The new Santos Administration provided an opportunity to address these very issues. There followed discussions between the two governments and there resulted an agreement on issues related to worker rights, violence and impunity. “Regretfully, to date, Colombia has not met some of the key obligations in a meaningful way. And the difficulties have been amplified by the lack of an explicit link between the Action Plan and the FTA. “One of the most troubling developments in recent months related to the use of sham cooperatives and other contract relationships to camouflage true employment relationships and thwart worker efforts to organize. The ILO has long identified use of such contracting relationships as one of the most serious problems facing Colombian workers, because in Colombia, only workers who are directly employed can form a union and collectively bargain. “Colombia initially committed to stop such abuses, passing far-reaching legislation and proposing effective regulations. Then Colombia backed away, reading the new law and regulations as applying solely to one of these contract forms (cooperatives), and thus creating massive loopholes. Immediately, Colombian employers, including a major beverage company and palm oil producers, began converting cooperatives to other contract forms to continue denying workers their basic rights. “We privately pushed the Colombians for months – from July – to clarify that law and regulations have broader reach, to try to stem this problematic shift. But it was not until last night, apparently, on the eve of this markup – after public pressure has been brought to bear on this issue in connection with this proceeding – that Colombia finally issued a clarification. While we are reviewing the clarification to see whether it actually answers the question, I note that this situation exemplifies exactly the point about the need to link the Action Plan to in implementation of the FTA. To date, congressional consideration of the FTA has kept the spotlight on these issues. Explicit linkage would maintain that spotlight for a crucial additional period – from the date of passage until entry into force – which could be as long as six months from now. There remain obligations under the Action Plan that haven’t yet been met. “Colombia also has failed to stop employers from using other tactics aimed at thwarting workers from organizing, such as “collective pacts,” or direct negotiations with workers used to diminish support for unions. The ILO called on Colombia to ban collective pacts in unionized workplaces. The action plan did not adopt the ILO recommendation, but at least required Colombia make it illegal to offer better terms under a collective pact than a union agreement. “But even that minimal requirement is not being meaningfully implemented. Colombian employers – including a major aviation company – are being allowed to circumvent the law simply by renaming the pacts (e.g., as “voluntary benefit agreements”). (To implement its FTA obligations, Panama banned collective pacts in unionized workplaces.) “A third example relates to the key problem of violence and impunity – as recognized by the Santos Administration itself. In November 2010, Colombian Vice President Garzon acknowledged that “the immense majority of crimes against trade unionists remain in impunity … and there are thousands of workers and union leaders killed and disappeared.” “Human Rights Watch has just issued a study that indicates that, notwithstanding the Santos Administration’s intention and commitments, there continues to be little progress in investigating and prosecuting union murders, even those it has designated as priority cases. According to Human Rights Watch, Colombian authorities have obtained just six convictions from 195 union murders that occurred between January 2007 and May 2011. “And, notwithstanding clear commitments under the Action Plan to improve this situation through reforms in investigative policies and methods, Colombia did not take the first step to do this – namely, the publication of an analysis of closed union murder cases – until October 3, again, on the eve of this markup, even though the Action Plan called for its completion on July 15. And even with this, it is clear that additional leverage is necessary. Interviews by Human Rights Watch with Colombian prosecutors reveal that there has been no clear direction to implement the new policies and methods, as committed to under the Action Plan that isn’t even referred to in the implementation bill. “Explicitly linking entry into force of the Colombia FTA was necessary as a step to ensure effective implementation of the Action Plan. It would provide an unequivocal signal to the vested interests long resisting reform in Colombia that the suppression of worker rights has to stop. And its inclusion is necessary to provide necessary context and meaning for the enforcement of the FTA worker rights standard in the future. “The Republicans were adamant in their refusal to include any reference at all to the Action Plan in the implementation bill. And the Administration was wrong to acquiesce. “It was an important ingredient to ensure that worker rights would be elevated, not relegated. “Violence against workers, impunity and inadequate labor laws held up consideration of the FTA. The effective implementation of the Labor Action Plan and the implementation of the other provisions of the FTA are one in the same and the Labor Action Plan should be included in the legislation we are voting on today.”
09.23.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following speech on the floor of the House of Representatives tonight in opposition to the Continuing Resolution for Fiscal Year 2012 that -- in identical fashion to yesterday's failed measure -- rescinds or transfers $1.5 billion from the Department of Energy’s Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing loan program: "Well, here we go again. You tried to cut jobs last night . You lost. Now you're trying it again. When Americans need jobs the Republicans are pushing an anti-jobs bill. "Here's what the NAM said about this program that you want to curtail: 'The ATVM program is an example of what government-industry partnerships can accomplish. It has helped create and preserve thousands of auto sector jobs. The NAM believes defunding ATVM will hurt manufacturers and their employees.' So, you listen to nobody except your empty rhetoric. ... So if that wasn't enough, here's what the Chamber of Commerce said: "The ATVM program promotes manufacturing in the U.S. and is an important component of American energy security.' "Yesterday the chairman of the Appropriations Committee said that the ATVM loan program is a 'a government subsidy for failing industries.' GM failing? Chrysler failing? Ford failing? How misguided. "Well, now you're on your rampage to kill jobs and you propose to cut another program, Section 1705, the loan program to help investments in new energy technology. This is a dangerous precedent. It's also, let's be frank, a dangerous smokescreen so some Republicans can change their votes. That's what this is all about. "Well, you don't want to listen to Warren Buffett on taxes and now you're thumbing your vote at Bill Gates. They issued a report yesterday, Bill Gates and a number of other technology leaders, and I quote from the report about energy and programs like what you're trying to cut: 'If the U.S. fails to invent new technologies and create new markets and new jobs that will drive the transformation and revitalization of the $5 trillion global energy industry we will have lost an opportunity to lead in what is arguably the largest and most pervasive technology sector in the world. However, if the U.S. successfully innovates in clean energy our country stands to reap enormous benefits.' Then it goes on: 'Unfortunately, the country has yet to embark on a clean energy innovation program commensurate with the scale of national priorities that are at stake. In fact, and I interpret here, this is what you're doing: 'Rather than improve the energy's energy innovation program and invest in strategic national interests, the current political environment is creating strong pressure to pull back from such efforts.' That's exactly what you're doing today. This bill is dangerous mindlessness."
09.22.2011	Michigan Democrats Invite Rogers to Test Drive Chevy Volt U.S. Reps. Sander Levin, John Dingell and Gary Peters today sent a letter to House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers, who was quoted in Politico today referring to the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing loan program as “a government subsidy for failing industries.” The Michigan Democrats sent the following letter: Dear Chairman Rogers: We were disappointed last night to read in Politico your reference to the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing loan program as “a government subsidy for failing industries.” Since 2009, it is estimated that the loans – which must be paid back to the U.S. Treasury in full – have financed investments that have created or saved 42,000 jobs in the United States. Those workers and the hundreds of thousands of other Americans who have helped to revitalize the U.S. automotive industry in the last few years would surely take issue with your characterization. Hardly a failing industry, our nation’s auto sector has demonstrated a remarkable turnaround this year. Ford reported its biggest profit in a dozen years. General Motors’ profit was the largest since 2000. Chrysler is back in the black. Automotive employment is up more than 11 percent from two years ago, to 584,600 in June of this year. Sen. Carl Levin owns a Chevy Volt. We’d like to invite you to give it a test drive and see what it’s like behind the wheel of a car that’s reflective of an industry coming back strongly and far from failing. Sincerely, Sander M. Levin John D. Dingell Gary C. Peters Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
09.21.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today on the floor of the House of Representatives spoke in opposition to the Continuing Resolution for Fiscal Year 2012 that rescinds or transfers $1.5 billion from the Department of Energy’s Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing loan program. Since 2009, the Department of Energy has awarded $9.2 billion in loans to finance investments in advanced vehicle manufacturing by Ford Motor Company, Nissan, Tesla, Fisker Automotive and Severstal North America that have created an estimated 42,560 jobs “We've heard a lot of rhetoric the first 10 minutes or whatever on the Majority side. But rhetoric cannot mask -- cannot obscure -- reality. The reality is this is an anti-jobs bill. In 2007 we put forth the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing loan program. It has worked. Tens of thousands of jobs have been created as a result of that program. In Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, Indiana, Louisiana and Florida. “And so now the Majority says they are going to pay for this bill. How? By ending a program that has created jobs. That's the reality. It cuts it off. Even though there are applications pending that will create thousands of more jobs in the manufacturing base of this country -- in Indiana, Missouri, Ohio, California, Michigan and other states. It's inexcusable. It's inexcusable. … “There are millions -- millions and millions of dollars that are already in the pipeline to be spent and applications for the balance of that money. That's a fact. … This is an anti-jobs bill when we needs jobs in the United States of America.”
09.21.2011	Funded through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative The Clinton River Spillway and Fish Habitat Restoration project in Clinton Township has been awarded a $350,000 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Fisheries grant to improve fish passage along two miles of restored channel. The grant, administered through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, will reduce erosion and sediment loading by stabilizing river shorelines and increasing vegetated buffers along the river. U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) wrote a letter to NOAA in support of the grant application in March. He welcomed news of the award today. “This is another example of how the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is making a real difference in our communities,” said Rep. Levin, who has been an active proponent of the program in Congress. “This project presents an opportunity to put people to work restoring a key environmental resource and help make Lake St. Clair and the Clinton River the healthy waterways all of us want them to be.” “The Clinton River and Lake St. Clair are tremendous assets to the region, and an investment like this in ecological restoration will provide long term benefits to local economies,” said Macomb County Public Works Commissioner Anthony Marrocco. “One of the issues we will look at is the impact the Spillway weir has on fish passage, and the impact the weir has on sediment and erosion. There’s a lot of bank erosion so we want to find out if the weir is exacerbating the situation.” As NOAA noted in announcing the grant, restoring access to upstream habitats will benefit 45 fish species, including yellow perch, lake sturgeon, and rainbow smelt. This will bolster populations of native freshwater mussel species in the river, which depend on fish to carry their larval stages upstream. This project is part of nearly $5 million being awarded to projects throughout the Great Lakes Region to restore environmentally degraded areas within the Great Lakes basin. Through its Great Lakes Habitat Restoration Program, NOAA Fisheries provides financial and technical assistance to remove dams and barriers, construct fish passage, clean up marine debris, restore coastal wetlands, and remove invasive species in the region. This year NOAA funded both shovel-ready projects and engineering and design projects. This allows NOAA to support both current efforts to restore the Great Lakes watershed as well future projects that, once implemented, will have significant benefits to Great Lakes restoration. These projects are supported by the NOAA Restoration Center with funding provided by the U.S. EPA through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is a collaborative effort between the EPA and 15 other federal agencies to build on existing and current work to restore the Great Lakes.
09.19.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after President Obama put forward his deficit reduction proposal: President Obama is right to demand a balanced approach to deficit reduction that asks more from the very wealthiest Americans. Anything short of such a request ignores the fact that the top 1 percent of earners have grabbed the lion’s share of income growth in recent decades while the salaries of most Americans have stalled. Poll after poll shows that Americans overwhelmingly support a balanced approach to deficit reduction that asks a little more of those who can most afford it.
09.16.2011	Joins 57 Democratic Colleagues in Letter Opposing UN Resolution U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) joined with 57 colleagues in sending a letter to 40 key European heads of state this week, urging them to stand with the United States in opposing unilateral action by the Palestinian Authority at the United Nations. The letter, also signed by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Whip Steny Hoyer and several other leading Democrats, urges the heads of state to oppose a UN resolution to be put forward by the Palestinian Authority to grant the Palestinians the equivalent of statehood and/or prejudge final issues, including borders and the status of Jerusalem. “A unilateral move circumventing long-standing agreements is a dangerous path that will not lead to just and lasting peace and it is vital that heads of state oppose the effort,” said Rep. Levin. “These are critical times for Israel and the United States has and will continue to stand beside her.” Below is the full text of the letter: Dear ___________________: We write on a matter of great urgency, on the eve of the United Nations General Assembly meeting. It is our understanding that the leadership of the Palestinian Authority will pursue a resolution at the United Nations – in either or both the Security Council and the General Assembly – to grant the Palestinians the equivalent of statehood and/or prejudge final issues, including borders and the status of Jerusalem. One of the major goals of this effort is for the Palestinians to better position themselves to petition the International Criminal Court, very possibly bogging down the court for the foreseeable future. It is our strong belief that such unilateral action would have devastating consequences for the peace process and the Palestinians themselves. Accordingly, we urge you in the strongest terms not to support this effort. We believe that the only way to achieve a two-state solution is through direct negotiations leading to a peace treaty fully accepted by both governments and by both peoples. A just and lasting peace cannot and must not be imposed on the parties. If the Palestinians pursue such a unilateral approach, it violates the letter and spirit of the Oslo Accords and will deal a significant blow to future negotiations. Given the expectations gap among the Palestinian public, such action could lead to widespread violence on the ground, jeopardizing the West Bank’s impressive economic and security gains over recent years. There is also a substantial risk of more broadly inflaming the region and increasing violence at a time of already great instability. Finally, the United States will reconsider its assistance program for the Palestinian Authority and other aspects of U.S.-Palestinian relations if they choose to pursue such a unilateral effort. We are confident that your government shares the United States’ commitment to a comprehensive resolution of the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians. That outcome can only be achieved through direct negotiations. A vote on a unilateral UN resolution will likely set prospects for peace back years. Our bilateral relationship is based on certain fundamental values. We urge you to vote those values, and to stand with the United States in not supporting unilateral action at the UN that would impede the peace we all seek. Thank you for your consideration of our views. Steny H. Hoyer, Democratic Whip Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Leader Howard Berman, Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee Nita Lowey, Ranking Member on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Henry Waxman, Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee Gary Ackerman Joe Baca Shelley Berkley Madeleine Bordallo Leonard Boswell Dennis Cardoza Russ Carnahan David Cicilline Emanuel Cleaver Gerry Connolly Jim Costa Jerry Costello Mark Critz Joseph Crowley Susan Davis Rosa DeLauro Ted Deutch Eliot Engel Charles Gonzalez Gene Green Janice Hahn Kathy Hochul Brian Higgins Tim Holden Steve Israel William Keating Larry Kissell James Langevin John Larson Sander Levin Dan Lipinski Carolyn Maloney James McGovern Gregory Meeks Michael Michaud Chris Murphy Jerrold Nadler Eleanor Holmes Norton Bill Owens Gary Peters Steven Rothman C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger John Sarbanes Janice Schakowsky Adam Schiff Allyson Schwartz David Scott Brad Sherman Heath Shuler Albio Sires Betty Sutton John Tierney Edolphus Towns Debbie Wasserman Schultz
09.15.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today introduced a resolution to commemorate the 20th Anniversary of Ukraine’s Independence and to express strong and continued support to the Ukrainian people in their effort to ensure democratic principles. “As we witness the historic calls for democracy around the world, it is critical that the United States continues to stand strong with the Ukrainian people,” said Rep. Levin, Co-Chairman of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. “Today’s bipartisan resolution has special meaning to the people of Ukraine who continue to strive towards a more democratic and open society, and indeed to all of us who value freedom.” On Aug. 24, 1991, the people of Ukraine proclaimed that they would no longer be subject to Soviet rule, inspiring the world with their call for democracy and the rule of law. Building on the gains of the 2004 Orange Revolution, the Ukrainian community has remained steadfastly focused on securing a stable democracy and a free market economy in Ukraine. Despite this, reforms made since the revolution are now in jeopardy. Since the inauguration of the Yanukovych Administration, frequent reports of the regime using violence and intimidation against journalists and opposition leaders have been on the rise. On Aug. 5, former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko and organizer of the Orange Revolution was placed under arrest by the Yanukovych Administration, renewing concerns in the community that the current regime is backsliding on democratic principles. “Democracy does not always come easy and sometimes there have been difficult days for Ukraine in achieving its fulfillment,” said Rep. Levin. “I am hopeful and optimistic that Ukraine will continue on the path of freedom as it carries out the spirit embodied in the Orange Revolution and as we observe the 20th anniversary.” Rep. Levin is a long-time ally of the Ukrainian-American community, leading Congressional efforts to foster stronger U.S.-Ukraine bilateral relations and the securing of a stable democracy in Ukraine. In 2005, Rep. Levin sponsored legislation authorizing the Government of Ukraine to establish a memorial in Washington, D.C. honoring the victims of the Ukrainian Famine-Genocide. This legislation passed unanimously in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate in 2005 and 2006, respectively.
09.14.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today gave the following speech on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding the House Republican effort to once again take our economy to the brink of default through a debt ceiling resolution of disapproval: “Madam speaker, we should not even be considering this resolution. I repeat, we should not even be considering this resolution. We should be moving forward, not backwards. This resolution is a dangerous distraction from the unprecedented challenge before us. Fourteen million Americans are looking for work. Fourteen million. The Census Bureau reported just yesterday that the poverty rate is higher than it's been in 17 years -- 17 years. And median income in this country is at 1996 levels -- 1996 levels. The president has proposed a job bill that one knowledgeable observer, Mark Zandi, estimates would create 1.9 million new jobs and add two percentage points to GDP growth next year. “We need action to spur economic growth and job creation. That's what we should be considering today. Instead, through this resolution, Republicans want to prolong the agony of the debt limit debate and take us back to the brink of default, which would be where we would be if you succeeded. This bill can pass the House only if members who voted yes in August on this issue decide in essence to vote no in September. Yes, in august -- Yes in August -- no in September. “This nation wants us to be guided by the needs of the nation, not the internal politics of a caucus or a conference. We've seen the consequences of that kind of thing. Standard and Poor’s said in downgrading our credit rating, and I quote, ‘it involved a level of brinkmanship greater than what we had expected earlier in the year,’ end of quote. In August, consumer confidence dropped by the largest amount since the peak of the financial crisis in 2008. And the conference board noted a direct link between that fall and the debate over default. And I think we need only to check 401k statements from August to remember the precipitous drop in the stock market. “Were this resolution to become law -- and all those who speak or vote for it have to understand that -- the U.S. would default on its obligations for the first time in our history. This would throw our economy back into deep recession, trigger $400 billion in immediate job-destroying cuts and call into question our ability to pay earned Social Security and Medicare benefits. “Madam speaker, we should not be considering this resolution today. We should be moving forward on the president's plan to jumpstart our economy and create jobs for American workers. The American jobs act would put more money in workers' pockets through a temporary tax cut, saving the average family $1,500 a year. It would also keep over six million workers from losing their unemployment benefits while they continue searching for work and provide this proposal new employer incentives to help get them hired. “If we don’t act on these issues over 1 million people will lose their unemployment benefits in January and over 2 million will lose them in February. So we need to act. We need to look ahead. Not just try to go backwards. So I strongly urge my colleagues to vote no on this resolution so we won’t waste one more minute on a renewal of Republican brinksmanship. “Fourteen million Americans who are looking for a job and 43 million Americans who are living in poverty can’t afford to wait one minute longer.”
09.14.2011	White House Unveils state-by-state data on Jobs Bill The White House has unveiled the state-by-state impact of the American Jobs Act, revealing that the measure will provide an average tax cut of $1,430 to Michigan families, invest more than $900 million in Michigan highway and transit modernization projects, and lead to a payroll tax cut for 180,000 Michigan firms. The president submitted the measure to Congress this week. “There is urgent need for action on jobs and the American Jobs Act would have a dramatic economic impact in Michigan and around the country,” said U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “There should be no delay – House Republicans must move from their position of inaction and work with Democrats to get Americans back to work and reignite our economic recovery.” Following are five components of the American Jobs Act and their impact on Michigan: 1. Tax Cuts to Help America’s Small Businesses Hire and Grow The President’s plan will cut the payroll tax in half to 3.1% for employers on the first $5 million in wages, providing broad tax relief to all businesses but targeting it to the 98 percent of firms with wages below this level. In Michigan, 180,000 firms will receive a payroll tax cut under the American Jobs Act. 2. Putting Workers Back on the Job While Rebuilding and Modernizing America The President’s plan includes $50 billion in immediate investments for highways, transit, rail and aviation, helping to modernize an infrastructure that now receives a grade of “D” from the American Society of Civil Engineers and putting hundreds of thousands of construction workers back on the job. Of the investments for highway and transit modernization projects, the President’s plan will make immediate investments of at least $901,000,000 in Michigan that could support a minimum of approximately 11,700 local jobs. The President is proposing to invest $35 billion to prevent layoffs of up to 280,000 teachers, while supporting the hiring of tens of thousands more and keeping cops and firefighters on the job. These funds would help states and localities avoid and reverse layoffs now, and will provide $945,500,000 in funds to Michigan to support up to 11,900 educator and first responder jobs. The President is proposing a $25 billion investment in school infrastructure that will modernize at least 35,000 public schools – investments that will create jobs, while improving classrooms and upgrading our schools to meet 21st century needs. Michigan will receive $926,300,000 in funding to support as many as 12,000 jobs. The President is proposing to invest $15 billion in a national effort to put construction workers on the job rehabilitating and refurbishing hundreds of thousands of vacant and foreclosed homes and businesses. Michigan could receive about $696,200,000 to revitalize and refurbish local communities, in addition to funds that would be available through a competitive application. The President’s plan proposes $5 billion of investments for facilities modernization needs at community colleges. Investment in modernizing community colleges fills a key resource gap, and ensures these local, bedrock education institutions have the facilities and equipment to address current workforce demands in today’s highly technical and growing fields. Michigan could receive $157,700,000 in funding in the next fiscal year for its community colleges. 3. Pathways Back to Work for Americans Looking for Jobs. Drawing on the best ideas of both parties and the most innovative states, the President is proposing the most sweeping reforms to the unemployment insurance (UI) system in 40 years help those without jobs transition to the workplace. This could help put the 293,000 long-term unemployed workers in Michigan back to work. Alongside these reforms, the President is reiterating his call to extend unemployment insurance, preventing 81,400 people looking for work in Michigan from losing their benefits in just the first 6 weeks. And, across the country, the number saved from losing benefits would triple by the end of the year. The President is proposing a new Pathways Back to Work Fund to provide hundreds of thousands of low-income youth and adults with opportunities to work and to achieve needed training in growth industries. Pathways Back to Work could place 5,600 adults and 17,200 youths in jobs in Michigan. 4. Tax Relief for Every American Worker and Family The President’s plan will expand the payroll tax cut passed last December by cutting workers payroll taxes in half next year. A typical household in Michigan, with a median income of around $46,000, will receive a tax cut of around $1,430. 5. Fully Paid for as Part of the President’s Long-Term Deficit Reduction Plan. To ensure that the American Jobs Act is fully paid for, the President will call on the Joint Committee to come up with additional deficit reduction necessary to pay for the Act and still meet its deficit target. The President will, in the coming days, release a detailed plan that will show how we can do that while achieving the additional deficit reduction necessary to meet the President’s broader goal of stabilizing our debt as a share of the economy.
09.13.2011	Today’s Census report showing a 17-year high in the nation’s poverty rate highlights the urgent need for action on jobs. The number of children living in poverty also increased by nearly 1 million to a total of 16.4 million, or 22% of all children. President Obama has laid out a broad plan to accelerate our recovery that should quickly be taken up. On a positive note, the Census report showed an increase in the percentage of insured young adults, with a half a million more insured people between the ages of 18 and 24 in 2010. Among the health reform provisions already in effect, the law allows people under the age of 26 to stay on or obtain coverage through their parents’ health insurance. Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA) made the following comments about today’s Census report: LEVIN: “Too many of our nation’s families are in crisis as the deep and lasting economic recession costs jobs, health insurance and pushes more families into poverty. This report should serve as another wake up call to Republicans in Congress that there is an urgent need for action on jobs. Every day that passes without House Republicans acting to boost our economic recovery is a missed opportunity to get Americans back to work and provides yet more evidence that House Republicans refuse to confront the most important issue facing our country.” STARK: "We've now got the highest poverty rate in 17 years. If that's not a clear indication that Congress needs to create jobs to jump-start the economy, I don't know what is. Yet there is a silver lining in today's report thanks to health reform: growing numbers of young adults are obtaining health insurance and more parents have greater peace of mind. In this punishing economy, parents and their adult children are at significantly less financial risk in the case of an illness or accident. Full implementation of health reform will continue to lessen Americans' risk of financial ruin because of a lack of coverage."
09.12.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement regarding the American Jobs Act, which President Obama is sending to Congress today: "The American Jobs Act is a strong initiative to accelerate our economic recovery and get Americans back to work and it should be acted on immediately. After eight months of inaction on jobs, it is time for House Republicans to put rigid ideologies aside and pass this measure, which is drawn from a wide-ranging slate of bipartisan proposals on job creation. More than 14 million Americans are looking for work and they should not have to wait another day for House Republicans to finally act on legislation to boost the economy."
09.12.2011	Rep. Levin co-authored the program in 1997 The Royal Oak Prevention Coalition, the Birmingham Bloomfield Community Coalition, the North Oakland Community Coalition and the Tri Community Coalition – serving Berkley, Huntington Woods, and City of Oak Park – have all received $125,000 Drug Free Community (DFC) grants for their efforts to facilitate active citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. The grants are administered through the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy. A full list of Michigan recipients – both through new and continuing grants – can be found here. Rep. Levin in 1997 co-authored of the Drug Free Communities Support Program, which is designed to reduce substance abuse among young people by supporting community anti-drug coalitions. Nearly 2,000 grants to anti-drug coalitions operating across the country have been made since the program’s inception. “These coalitions have demonstrated continued leadership in bringing together local community leaders to solve local problems and these grants will strengthen their efforts,” said Rep. Sander Levin, D-MI. “Drug Free Community grants have been shown to be effective, with measurable results, and I commend these coalitions on their continued success.” To qualify for the grants, awardees must have at least a six-month history of working together on substance abuse reduction initiatives, have representation from 12 specific sectors of the community, develop a long–term plan to reduce substance abuse, and participate in a national evaluation of the DFC program. The DFC program provides matching grants of up to $625,000 over five years. The Tri Community Coalition is now beginning its second five-year award. In addition to the new grants awarded to the Royal Oak and Tri Community Coalitions, continuation grants were awarded to the Chippewa Valley Coalition for Youth and Families, the Southeast Oakland Coalition, and the Madison Heights Community Family Coalition. The awards, which continue previously awarded DFC grants, were in the amounts of $125,000 per coalition. The DFC program was created by the Drug Free Communities Act of 1997 which was co-authored by Congressman Levin and Former-Congressman Rob Portman. Congressman Levin is a principal advocate for the program in Congress, leading the fight to improve funding levels since the program’s creation. With approximately 700 Drug Free Community anti-drug coalitions across the country, the program has achieved impressive outcomes in reducing marijuana, alcohol, and tobacco use levels to lower than the national average. An independent study conducted by ICF International found that in DFC-funded communities there are nearly 115,000 fewer youth smoking marijuana; 181,000 fewer youth using alcohol; and 200,000 fewer youth smoking cigarettes.
09.08.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding President Obama’s speech before a Joint Session of Congress: "The president tonight stepped up to the plate with an urgent plan of action on jobs. Now it is time for Republicans to move from their plan of complete inaction and begin working together with Democrats to jumpstart our recovery. The livelihoods of far too many Americans are at stake."
09.06.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) today issued the following statements in response to today’s report in the New York Times detailing how China is requiring U.S. auto companies to transfer their technologies in order to get access to huge subsidies on hybrid cars. Other recent press reports describe subsidized loans, cheap or free land from local governments across China, extensive tax breaks, and subsidized export credit insurance in the solar power and other “green tech” industries. Rep. Levin: “I call on the Administration and Congress to stand up to China’s trade distorting policies. Today’s Times article details China’s heavy handed tactics to force U.S. car companies to transfer electric vehicle technology to China. Those actions are far from isolated. China is systematically deploying an arsenal of trade distorting policies to corner the global market in green technology products, whether it be electric cars, wind turbines or solar products. Our efforts to put Americans back to work are made all the more difficult by China’s policies, and it is time we take action to counter them – either through aggressive use of our domestic trade laws or through WTO cases.” Rep. McDermott: “Our trading relationship with China has the potential to provide mutual and substantial benefits for both countries. But our massive trade deficits with China are unsustainable, and China’s trade-distorting policies contribute significantly to those deficits and put the fragile global economic recovery at further risk. This deficit is, without question, the single most important issue on the trade agenda today, and we look forward to continuing to work with the Administration and our Republican colleagues to address it.”
09.02.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sandy Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement on the Department of Labor’s jobs report for August: “Over the last several months, every pronouncement and policy coming from the Republicans has hurt the prospects for the economy. Hopefully these numbers will convince them of the need to join with us to work on real job creation strategies. Our priority must be policies that stimulate the American economy, create jobs and support families thrown out of work during the recession and struggling to find new employment opportunities during this slow recovery.”
08.29.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sandy Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement on the House GOP "jobs" agenda: "After 237 days in the majority, House Republicans have yet to pass a single piece of legislation that will create jobs. Their main effort has been to prevent action on Democratic proposals that would indeed create jobs. We need to get moving on solutions to our nation’s job crisis instead of offering a deduction that has no guarantee of creating any jobs. "In March Ways and Means Democrats introduced the Building American Jobs Act of 2011, which would extend eight provisions to help state and local governments finance vital infrastructure investments. The bill is anchored by the wildly successful Build America Bonds program, which expired due to Republican opposition at the end of last year after helping to finance $181 billion in infrastructure projects since 2009. "In June, I introduced legislation that has received overwhelming bipartisan support that would reign in China's currency manipulation and bring 500,000 to 1.5 million jobs back to the United States. So far, Republicans have also blocked action on this bill, which has led to the circulation of a discharge petition that would bring it to the House Floor. “The only concrete proposal in this mislabeled jobs agenda is to repeal the 3% withholding provision that would go into effect in 2013. This is a provision that was passed in 2006 by a Republican controlled Congress and signed by President Bush and which Democrats in the last Congress proposed to repeal. “Today’s memo from House Republican leadership purporting to be an upcoming jobs agenda is thin gruel for an economy that is hungry for action to support growth and job creation.”
08.26.2011	Reps. Levin and Dingell join in announcing $2.2 million in grants for Detroit area projects U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today joined with U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-MI) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in announcing four Great Lakes Restoration Initiative grants totaling $2.2 million to organizations, agencies, and universities working in the Detroit area. These four grants are among 70 totaling nearly $30 million awarded by EPA under the GLRI in 2011. (Details on each grant provided below). "The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is vital to the long-term health of the Great Lakes, Michigan's most important natural resource,” said Congressman Levin. “These grants will target runoff pollution, coastal wetlands restoration, and hazardous and medical waste that afflict local rivers and streams in our area. They are an important step forward as we redouble our efforts to fully restore the Great Lakes." “The Great Lakes are the largest single source of fresh water on the planet,” said Congressman John Dingell. “I applaud today’s announcement of over 2.2 million to fund Detroit-area efforts to save the Great Lakes, one of the greatest treasures on the face of the Earth. By investing in these critical and urgent needs to protect the Great Lakes habitat and fight against pollution, we are making an indispensable investment in the future of our communities, our environment and our quality of life. Protecting this precious resource is also essential for our water infrastructure to maintain not only our public health, but also our fish, wildlife and the environment. I commend the EPA and Congressman Sandy Levin for their efforts on this project and their consistent dedication to the people, land and water that make up our beloved State of Michigan.” “The President’s Great Lakes Restoration Initiative aims to rehabilitate the ecosystem that is the foundation of this region’s economy,” said Cameron Davis, the EPA’s Senior Advisor to the Administrator on the Great Lakes. “For the regional economy to thrive, we need to accelerate our efforts to comprehensively attack problems such as habitat loss, invasive species and pollution that causes algae that choke beaches and fish life. Today’s investment will help make that happen.” Funded projects will advance the goals and objectives of the GLRI Action Plan, which EPA Administrator Jackson released in cooperation with 15 other participating agencies and several Great Lakes governors in February 2010. The funded projects in the Detroit area include: $254,406 – Macomb County (Eliminating E. coli Sources Impacting Beach Closures). The County of Macomb will remove 8,500 square feet of an existing impervious parking lot at a Lake St. Clair beach and replace it with a 15,800 square-foot porous paver driveway and 11,500 square-foot rain garden. This project is expected to reduce stormwater runoff by increasing infiltration, resulting in lower E.coli levels, fewer beach closures, and improved water quality in Lake St. Clair. $534,689 – The Nature Conservancy (Detroit River-Western Lake Erie Cooperative Weed Management Area and Phragmites Control). The Nature Conservancy, working with public and private partners, will restore coastal wetlands vital for waterfowl and marshbirds. The project will fund eradication of invasive Phragmites australis on approximately 1,240 acres of Western Lake Erie coastal wetlands in Wayne and Monroe Counties, Michigan. The project will also establish through a spectrum of local partners a large-scale and sustainable approach to Phragmites treatment in a heavily populated area with high recreational value. $500,000 – Wayne County – Department of Public Services (Toxics Reduction within the Rouge and Detroit River Areas of Concern). Wayne County will conduct household hazardous waste and electronic waste (e-waste) collections in the Rouge and Detroit River Areas of Concern (AOCs). The project will target private commercial and industrial facilities in these AOCs that have the highest potential of handling/mishandling toxic materials. The expected results include collection and/or prevention of 15 million gallons of illegal discharges, 500,000 pounds of e-waste, 2,400 pounds of unwanted medicines, and 1 million pounds of household hazardous waste. $1,000,000 – Huron Clinton Metropark Authority (Reducing the Impact of Stormwater on Metro Beach). The Huron Clinton Metropark Authority will use green infrastructure measures to reduce, capture and treat stormwater runoff impacting the Metropolitan Beach Metropark on Lake St. Clair. This project will eliminate approximately 11.5 acres of pavement and establish a new drainage pattern for the parking area that will filter all runoff through a system of vegetative swales and detention areas to an existing 96 acre wetland. These green infrastructure investments will improve water quality and public health at Metro Beach and restore the natural hydrology.
08.09.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the passing of Eleanor Josaitis: “Eleanor Josaitis and Father Bill Cunningham were pioneers in meeting the challenges of urban Michigan and urban America. Eleanor took over Focus: HOPE and led this important organization with determination, passion, creativity and grace. Her passing has left a painful void and a luminous legacy. Like so many others that knew her personally I will cherish her memory and miss her deeply.”
08.05.2011	Michigan has highest unemployment rate in nation among post-9/11 veterans U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today praised the proposal unveiled by President Obama aimed at lowering the unemployment rate of veterans. Nearly 30 percent of Michigan veterans who have served since 9/11 are unemployed, according to a recent Joint Economic Committee Report, the highest rate in the nation: “Our veterans have put their lives on the line for our nation and we owe them not only an enormous debt of gratitude, but also every effort to ensure that they can find work upon their return home. We face a particularly daunting challenge in Michigan, where nearly a third of post-9/11 veterans are unemployed. This proposal is an important step in lowering that rate and keeping our commitment to the men and women who have already sacrificed so much.”
08.05.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the monthly jobs report released today: “Today’s jobs report, while more promising than expected, illustrates the importance of continuing emergency unemployment benefits. There are nearly 14 million Americans still looking for work. Never in history have so many been unemployed for so long. Letting unemployment programs expire, as some Republicans advocate, will not only hurt struggling Americans, but estimates suggest it could also cost our nation half a million jobs. We must act to ensure that millions of Americans aren’t suddenly without assistance as we continue to climb out of the worst jobs climate in 80 years. “In seven months since they assumed the majority in the House, Republicans have not passed a single jobs bill, instead focusing on a rigid ideological agenda. In fact, the only measure touted as a ‘jobs act’ that has moved through the Ways and Means Committee would in fact end federal guaranteed unemployment insurance.” KEY FACTS: Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits are set to expire at the end of the year. 6.2 million Americans have been unemployed longer than 26 weeks. The average weekly unemployment benefit is $298.62. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that extending the program through next year would create $70 billion in economic activity and a 0.4% bump in GDP. The only unemployment insurance legislation Republicans have moved this year is a bill passed through Ways and Means that would end – not continue – the federal guaranteed unemployment insurance.
08.04.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement urging immediate approval of a clean FAA extension: “There should be immediate action to approve an extension of FAA programs. At stake is the safety of millions of travelers, 70,000 construction jobs and $200 million per week in revenue. Legislation that I co-sponsored with more than 100 of my colleagues would authorize the aviation programs through Sept. 30 and is supported by a broad coalition of aviation organizations. It should be acted on immediately and not continue to be held up by a rigid Republican ideological agenda. The livelihoods of far too many American families hang in the balance.”
08.04.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) today made the following joint statement regarding Trade Adjustment Assistance: “Republicans should have never let the expanded Trade Adjustment Assistance program expire in February – a lapse that is inexcusable. As a result, during the past six months workers who have lost jobs through no fault of their own have been denied certification for critical retraining and other assistance. The path forward in the House as well as the Senate must be ironclad in its assurance that TAA will be renewed, otherwise TAA should be attached to the Korea FTA as we urged many months ago. Until this year, the program was widely hailed as a bipartisan success story and its renewal should be embraced by both sides of the aisle. American workers deserve no less.”
07.30.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today gave the following speech on the floor of the House of Representatives as Republicans waste another day, using a rule to require a two-thirds vote to pass the Bipartisan Budget Control Act: “I've been here almost 29 years. This is a disgraceful moment. This country wants compromise. What you're doing with this bill is to undermine the chances of compromise. That's what you're doing. You're trying to throw a monkey wrench in the Reid bill before it can even leave the station. That's what you're doing. You're trying to make sure that the Senate cannot work its will. “Why isn't this bill being brought up? Because Senator Reid wants to sit down with Senate Republicans and work out a compromise and you're bringing up this bill to make sure that this will never happen. This is a disgraceful moment.”
07.29.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to the revised Republican Default Bill: “The gentleman from California has been talking about moving the process forward. It does not move the process forward to pass a bill that's dead before arrival in the Senate. It doesn't move the process forward to pass a bill that is even more partisan than the one yesterday. “You know, the country has to be wondering, we're one day closer to default and indeed one step backwards. The Republicans are trying to squeeze out a majority here, and what they're doing is inserting a provision that requires a two-thirds vote in the Senate and the House. That's completely a nonstarter. The American public is looking for a solution, not a stalemate, and the House Republicans have become the party of gridlock. Passing this only increases it. It is a move backwards. Maybe to protect your flank -- but not to protect America.”
07.29.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding the agreement on new fuel economy standards announced today: “The goal all along has been to reach a fuel economy agreement that is good for consumers, and fair and achievable for U.S. vehicle manufacturers and their workers. Above all, the goal has been to set a national standard, instead of an unworkable patchwork of state standards. This is what the Michigan Delegation has been fighting for, and this is what I will continue to work for as the framework is finalized. “The agreement is ambitious. By any yardstick, the agreement represents a significant increase in fuel economy that will dramatically reduce oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and save consumers money at the pump. “The last year has seen a resurgence of the auto industry and it is vital that we continue the fight to build the cars of the future in the United States.”
07.28.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to the Republican Default Bill: “This bill is not bipartisan. The vote will soon show that. This bill is not a compromise. It does not seek bipartisan common ground. Instead it is orchestrated only to find enough common ground among House Republican partisans. “This bill does not reflect compromise. It would compromise indeed Medicare and Social Security. It forces massive cuts consistent with the ideological Republican budget that was unanimously opposed by Democrats. “This bill does not promote certainty for our nation’s economy. Instead it brings more uncertainty for families facing major financial decisions; for businesses deciding whether to invest or hire; for markets unsure when the next shoe might drop. “This bill is not balanced. Instead, it embraces the Republicans’ one dimensional mantra just again expressed by the chairman of our committee – no end to unjustified tax loopholes or tax breaks for the very wealthiest -- even as so many middle class families have been losing ground. “In a few words, our nation’s economy and jobs are too much to risk on a bill that is a bridge to nowhere between our two houses.”
07.27.2011	Today, over 40 Members of the House led by Representatives Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Sander Levin (D-MI) and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), introduced the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, which would curb abuses of the international tax laws that cost taxpayers nearly $100 billion a year. Senator Carl Levin (D-MI) recently introduced the same legislation in the Senate. “It is long past time to take effective action to stop offshore tax dodging,” said Congressman Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the House Ways and Means and Budget Committees. “Revenue lost to these tax avoidance schemes contributes to the soaring budget deficit and increases the burden on small businesses, families, and others who play by the rules.” “Offshore tax abuses are not only undermining public confidence in our tax system, but increasing the tax burden on middle America,” said Senator Levin, who had introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “People are sick and tired of tax dodgers using offshore trickery and abusive tax shelters to avoid paying their fair share. This bill offers powerful new tools to combat offshore and tax shelter abuses, raise revenues, and eliminate incentives to send U.S. profits and jobs offshore. Its provisions, which can help stop the $100 billion per year drain on the Treasury, will hopefully be part of any deficit reduction package this year, but should be passed in any event.” “Abuse of tax havens is a serious problem that undermines our entire tax system, let alone leads to higher deficits. We must step up enforcement, close offshore tax loopholes and ensure that working families are not unfairly burdened because of people trying to avoid paying the taxes they owe,” said Congressman Levin, Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Addressing tax haven abuse is a critical part of addressing our national deficit. Too many companies are avoiding taxes by sheltering money overseas, and this legislation will ensure this unfair practice is halted,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “The cost, both in dollars and jobs, at a time when so many families are still struggling, is unacceptable.” The bill is supported by small business, labor, and public interest groups, including the Financial Accountability and Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition, American Sustainable Business Council, Business for Shared Prosperity, Main Street Alliance, AFL-CIO, SEIU, Citizens for Tax Justice, Tax Justice Network-USA, U.S. Public Interest Research Group, Global Financial Integrity, Global Witness, Jubilee USA, and Public Citizen. A number of provisions from past versions of the legislation have made it into law, such as measures to curb abusive foreign trusts, close offshore dividend tax loopholes, and strengthen penalties on tax shelter promoters. The Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act would authorize the Treasury Secretary to take special measures against foreign jurisdictions or financial institutions that impede U.S. tax enforcement, close offshore tax loopholes, and increase penalties on tax shelter promoters.
07.26.2011	Opening Statement of Ranking Member Sander Levin Hearing on Tax Reform and Consumption-based Tax SystemsCommittee on Ways and MeansJuly 26, 2011 (Remarks as Delivered) Yesterday, Speaker Boehner put forward what he calls “a two-step approach to hold President Obama accountable.” Under that proposal, the Speaker states that there will be “no tax hikes.” But what would the proposals before us today mean for millions of working American families? A tax hike. At the same time, the Speaker’s proposal establishes a commission that cannot recommend reducing the deficit by ending tax breaks for people making over a million dollars a year, or ending tax loopholes that encourage companies to ship jobs overseas, or shutting down tax havens. This prohibition on a commission even considering revenues, along with the spending caps in the Speaker’s proposal, would mean major cuts in vital programs like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. So today while our nation is facing a severe crisis, the Majority is holding this hearing on proposals that do not address this immediate crisis and would raise taxes for millions of middle- and low-income families at the same time that they are insisting on a deficit package that protects tax breaks for very wealthy households. What we must focus on right now is avoiding a default that would risk another financial crisis and millions of jobs. It could delay the Social Security checks that millions of seniors depend on. It could permanently call into the question the full faith and credit of the United States, and make it even more difficult to reduce the deficit. Our President has called again and again for a balanced approach to getting a handle on our nation’s debt. This Committee has jurisdiction over many of the elements of such an approach. It is the Committee in the House with jurisdiction over legislation on the debt ceiling. We on this Committee have a solemn obligation to step up to the plate and address the matter at hand – avoiding a default and finding a balanced approach to deficit reduction.
07.22.2011	Bipartisan letter sent to President Obama U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) joined with 15 other members of the Michigan Congressional delegation, including both Sens. Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow, in sending the following letter to President Obama: Dear Mr. President: We write to you today on the issue of a single national program for vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions for model years 2017-2025. This issue, if handled in the wrong way, would have a negative effect on our economy, stalling our economic recovery, and would result in critical American job losses with no benefit to the environment. The Center for Automotive Research recently published a report, based on data from the National Academy of Sciences, which suggested that overly stringent standards would cost approximately 260,000 jobs and add $10,000 to the cost of a new vehicle. An unsound program would both negatively impact U.S. jobs and drive consumers to used car lots for vehicles that are less fuel efficient, which would be a loss to environmental progress. We are deeply concerned that the Administration’s “starting” proposal of a five percent annual increase for cars and light trucks – to reach a goal of 56.2 miles per gallon in 2025 – is overly aggressive and not reasonably feasible. Such a proposal would push beyond the limits of reasonably feasible technology development and would have significant negative ramifications for U.S. jobs and competitiveness. Technology and economics must reasonably support the targets and goals for fuel economy improvement and greenhouse gas emissions reductions, and we are concerned that the Administration’s current approach is not leading in that direction. With that in mind, as members of the Michigan delegation, we want to bring to your attention several issues of concern in the ongoing discussions and suggest an approach to help bring the parties to an agreement. We understand that the Administration is now considering a 3.5 percent annual increase for light duty trucks for 2017-2021 and is working with the auto manufacturers to determine what flexibilities would be required to achieve that target. We also understand that the Administration is considering the possibility of a different approach for certain work trucks. While we appreciate the Administration’s efforts to understand the auto manufacturers’ future product plans, to understand the constraints the companies would face in meeting aggressive targets, and to offer credits and flexibilities to help with compliance, we believe that the overall targets currently proposed may exceed what is technologically achievable for the U.S. automakers that produce and sell the majority of the larger pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles that U.S. families and businesses – and tens of thousands of autoworkers – depend upon. More significantly, we are concerned that the Administration’s current approach for light duty trucks may have a discriminatory impact on these U.S. manufacturers. An approach to higher fuel economy that relies on the generation of credits from other than truck classes to reach compliance is not sustainable over the long-term and could have detrimental effects on U.S. automakers by expanding the gap between the regulatory requirements and what is technologically and economically achievable. This approach will put an increasingly heavy burden on U.S. auto manufacturers, who already must rely on credits earned for high fuel economy passenger cars to reach the aggressive fuel economy targets for light duty trucks in the regulatory requirements for model years 2012-2016, and may prevent them from selling these larger vehicles that U.S. consumers want to buy. Meanwhile, manufacturers that produce primarily smaller vehicles will have an unfair competitive advantage and will still be able to sell these larger vehicles that are no more fuel efficient. In other words, this has the potential to negate the significant reforms achieved by the Congress in 2007 that eliminated the discriminatory features of the old corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) system. We are also deeply concerned about the Administration’s plans for model years 2022-2025. As you know, the proposed standards cover a time horizon that is unprecedented in the history of fuel economy rulemaking. The initial year of the new standards is five model years away, and the endpoint stretches nearly fifteen years into the future. No previous fuel economy rulemaking has exceeded five model years or had a starting point so far into the future. That is why Congress has limited the authority of NHTSA to set fuel economy standards to no more than five model years at a time - in this case, 2017-2021. The purpose of the five-year limitation was to prevent standards being set too far out into the future, based on speculation or unreliable market and technology projections including the cost of technology, the cost of fuel, and consumer acceptance. Some of the undersigned question EPA’s authority to regulate motor vehicle fuel economy, directly or indirectly. However, if that authority is accepted, we believe that the same limitation of five years is appropriate for EPA regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. At a minimum, if the White House insists upon setting standards for 2022-2025, those standards should only go into effect if a mid-term review confirmed that the underlying assumptions were met and should specify that, in the absence of that confirmation, both agencies would commence a new rulemaking for that period. The burden of proof should be on the longer period – not the shorter one. Furthermore, there must be a clear mechanism for ensuring that any EPA regulations that go into effect are coordinated with the NHTSA rulemaking process and harmonized to continue a single national program for 2022-2025. Similarly, allowing California to be able to wield undue influence is simply not acceptable. Finally, we believe that the mid-term review should include a comprehensive joint agency assessment of the auto manufacturers' experience with the 2012-2016 and 2017+ rules to date at the time of the review to determine whether there have been any problems or concerns that would suggest a need for mid-course adjustments. We need a balanced approach to fuel economy regulation with reasonable and achievable targets that will reduce our consumption of oil and greenhouse gas emissions while preserving U.S. jobs and promoting U.S. manufacturing. We do not believe the Administration’s current proposal will achieve that balanced approach and believe instead it could have a detrimental effect on the U.S. economy. We urge you to consider further the Administration’s thinking in these areas – with special focus on the two issues we have raised – and consider carefully the potential impact on U.S. jobs and U.S. manufacturing. As a delegation, we bring to the table a range of views on this issue. However, with the Michigan unemployment rate standing at 10.5 percent, we are unanimous in our concern about the consequences of an excessive proposal, and we urge you to continue to work closely with U.S. manufacturers who have the most at stake. In that regard, we urge the Administration to sit down promptly and at one time with all three domestic auto manufacturers and the United Auto Workers to work through an acceptable solution to these issues. Downloads » fuel economy 2017-2025.pdf
07.20.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), in an interview today on ABC News’ Top Line, reiterated the cataclysmic consequences of defaulting on our obligations and said the Gang of Six proposal shows the need for a balanced approach to reducing our deficit: KEY POINT: “I think the Gang of Six comes forth with a breakthrough in this sense: that the Republicans in the House have said don’t touch revenue, even loopholes. …. And essentially the Gang of Six is saying, ‘Republicans as well as Democrats, we have to have a balanced approach. Revenues as well as savings.’ In that respect and some others, I think the Gang of Six has served an important purpose.”
07.20.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today delivered the following statement on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 2560, a measure that doubles down on the Republican budget plan to end Medicare: “In this bill, the Republicans are trying to repeal the second half of the 20th century. We have spent decades trying to knit a truly American fabric around a strengthened middle class. It’s a fabric that holds at its core retirement security, health care through Medicare and Medicaid, and educational opportunities for all through programs such as Pell Grants. For Republicans, the purpose of this measure is to appeal to their base. But in so doing they are debasing what we have built over the last half-century. “It couldn’t come at a worse time for the country. Republicans say they are dedicated to the markets – but they are essentially now saying, ‘financial markets be damned.’ As one analyst put it yesterday: ‘The closer we get to this August deadline, the more anxious investors become.’ One anonymous Republican told Politico yesterday: ‘I'm embarrassed to be a Republican. These guys don't understand capital markets. This isn't about who wins an election. This is about whether people are going to be able to finance a house.’ “It was 46 years ago this month that President Johnson signed Medicare into law. Yet this measure doubles down on the Ryan budget proposal that itself would end Medicare. Retirees would see – at the very least – a 10 percent cut in their Social Security plan. Nursing home care, which makes up half of Medicaid expenditures, would be slashed. And that is not alone. The devastating cuts to endless programs such as grants for higher education, that have been vital in creating opportunity and building a strong American middle class. More than 14 million Americans remain jobless. Yet instead of using their new House majority to pursue a jobs agenda, it has come to this. Nearly seven months after they assumed the majority, instead of promoting growth, encouraging job creation and reinforcing the economic recovery, Republicans have been bringing about uncertainty. We must indeed confront the deficit. But not as the Republicans now propose – tearing apart what has helped create the fabric of the American middle class.” ***WATCH VIDEO***
07.15.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding U.S. Rep. Dale Kildee’s announcement that he will retire at the end of this Congress: “Dale Kildee has been an invaluable public servant on behalf everyone who has aspired to climb up the ladder of opportunity, focusing on education at all levels. In all the many years I have known and worked with Dale in the state legislature and the Congress, he has never wavered in his commitment to making the American dream a reality for everyone. In the years ahead he will be missed in the Congress because of his commitment to the common good and the warm friendship he has formed with so many of us.”
07.13.2011	Opening Statement of Ranking Member Sander Levin Joint Hearing on the Tax Treatment of Debt and EquityCommittee on Ways and Means, Committee on Finance (Remarks as Prepared) I believe that the last time there was a combined meeting of the two Committees on tax issues occurred in 1940 to discuss war taxes. Today's meeting is to discuss certain aspects of current tax law relating to debt and equity in the context of tax reform. Because of the uniquely serious challenge facing this nation – action on the debt limit – today it would be more appropriate if we were gathering to discuss this challenge. This issue – the debt limit – is squarely within the jurisdiction of our two committees. That does not mean that the specific topic before us is unimportant. Indeed, if we are to seriously address tax reform, issues relating to debt and equity must be considered and like other significant issues, done so in depth and with open debate. As our witnesses’ prepared testimony demonstrates, the subject is complex, and answers do not always automatically fall into usual ideological frameworks. I fear that the chances of the discussion at this joint hearing leading to fruitful action have been dimmed immeasurably by the environment created on the overarching issue of action on the debt ceiling. Yesterday, Senator McConnell said, “After years of discussions and months of negotiations, I have little question that as long as this president is in the Oval Office, a real solution is probably unattainable.” This approach, which repeats Senator McConnell's earlier statement this his number one priority is defeating President Obama in next year's election, totally politicizes and poisons the well for tax reform in the near future.It flies in the face of the basic facts: President Obama inherited a debt that had risen under President Bush from $5.7 trillion to $10 trillion. He inherited a record $1.5 trillion deficit that had wiped out the record surplus inherited by President Bush. The fact is that under the House Republican budget that was unanimously opposed by Democrats earlier this year, it would still be necessary to raise the debt ceiling. The President has said very clearly that we need a balanced framework to reduce the deficit now and in the future, while allowing for needed investments to promote economic growth and job creation. It is not helpful to walk away from the table. It is not helpful to insist on an ideological agenda that cannot become law. We should hear and review carefully the testimony now to be presented to us by our distinguished, knowledgeable witnesses. But I fear that any insights that we gain in the process will be washed away if the debt ceiling is not raised and we suffer the momentous consequences that would result from destroying the full faith and credit of our nation.
07.12.2011	Passes House, Action in Senate awaits Advocates for maintaining Abrams tank production, a cornerstone of Michigan’s defense industrial base for 30 years, have scored a victory with passage in the House of Representatives of a defense funding bill containing an additional $272 million to keep the tank production line open. Earlier this year, after three decades of building, upgrading and improving the Abrams main battle tank, the Pentagon proposed to halt tank upgrades in 2013 and then restart tank production in 2017. Critics of the proposal point out that the cost of shutting down and mothballing tank production could ultimately cost taxpayers $200 million more than just maintaining tank upgrades at a rate of 70 tanks per year. Tank advocates in Congress, including Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) and Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), urged the House Appropriations Committee to include additional funding to keep tank production going, spearheading a letter in May that was signed by 135 other members and cautioned Army Secretary John McHugh about halting production. The House bill that passed Friday includes an additional $272 million for tank production, bringing total funding for the Abrams program to $453 million, which is enough to continue building 70 tanks in 2013. The House approved the Defense bill on a vote of 336 to 87. The defense measure must now be approved by the U.S. Senate. “This is an important victory in the battle to continue tank production. Now the Senate needs to step up and approve the tank funding,” said Rep. Levin. “The tank upgrade program is critical to ensuring our troops are protected on the battlefield. It is also critical to Michigan’s defense industrial base.” The Abrams tank program is run by General Dynamics Land Systems based in Sterling Heights and more than 200 Michigan businesses provide parts and engineering services to upgrade older M1 tanks to the more advanced M1A2 SEP version of the vehicle.
07.07.2011	Mock Mark-up of Panama, Korea and Colombia FTAsCommittee on Ways and Means July 7, 2011 (Remarks as Prepared) The 2009 Trade Adjustment Assistance – heralded as a major bi-partisan achievement at the time – has been expired since February. Since that time the Department of Labor has denied workers TAA because they were only covered through the 2009 reforms. Some Republicans have so wrongly stated that TAA picks winners and losers. No. TAA helps workers who have lost out from the impact of trade turn into winners again. The Administration has stated that TAA must be renewed before consideration of the pending Free Trade Agreements. On May 16th National Economic Council Director Gene Sperling said, "The administration will not submit implementing legislation on the three free pending trade agreements until we have a deal with Congress on the renewal of a robust, expanded TAA program consistent with the objectives of the 2009 trade adjustment assistance law.” When this mock-up was announced, USTR Ron Kirk said, “We welcome the effort to move the three pending trade agreements forward in the House. . . However, we note that the Ways and Means Committee documents released today do not provide a path forward for the bipartisan agreement to renew Trade Adjustment Assistance, and therefore are at odds with the Administration’s stated intentions for advancing a package that includes both the free-trade agreements and assistance for workers adversely impacted by trade.” Just such a deal was announced ten days ago. Today the Senate is holding a similar mock mark-up on the FTAs, and they are including the TAA language presumably agreed to by some Republicans. So the question for Republicans on the Committee today is: Why are you proceeding this way? TAA should have been extended long ago, as I proposed to the Administration they send us Korea and TAA months ago, and today we should be discussing the merits of all three trade agreements as changed by the Obama Administration. As to the Korea FTA, we should be talking today about the fact that Obama Administration did what the Bush Administration failed to do – they turned a one-way street in trade to a two-way street, which must be a key principle in crafting and enforcing trade agreements. As to the Panama FTA, we should be talking today about the fact that the Obama Administration did what the Bush Administration failed to do – they negotiated an agreement to address tax haven concerns and Panama has acted before Congressional consideration to bring their labor laws into compliance with international standards and the standard now within the FTA itself. I support these FTAs as changed, but if the amendment we will offer to incorporate TAA into the FTA to ensure its enactment does not pass, I urge a no vote on these agreements at this mock mark-up. We should certainly be talking today about the Colombia FTA, where there exists a major flaw in the implementing legislation that must be addressed. What has held up consideration of the Colombia FTA are labor laws and practices that did not meet international standards, violence against workers, and impunity for those who committed the violence. The development of an Action Plan on worker rights – and its agreement between our government and the Colombian government - represented a vital prerequisite to action on the Colombia FTA. Republicans total refusal to include in the implementing bill a reference to the agreement on an Action Plan addressing the core issue which had prevented consideration of the FTA and the Administration’s acquiescence to that refusal are totally unacceptable. As such, the implementation legislation is not satisfactory, and we will offer an amendment today that says before the Administration provides for entry into force of the Colombia FTA they shall make a determination that Colombia has met their obligations under the Action Plan as of the date of entry. This is a vital improvement to the legislation for the following reasons. There are numerous, important commitments under the Action Plan that are scheduled to be completed after a likely vote on the Colombia FTA, most of these commitments by the end of this year. Entry into force of the FTA would take at least six months after a vote, so linking the FTA to the Action Plan would add further assurance for the completion of Action Plan commitments. The FTA includes a fully enforceable worker rights standard which makes it vital to include a clear reference in the implementation legislation to the Action Plan and its specific provisions; they provide an important context for enforcement of the FTA worker rights standard. It also signals that the Administration is fully committed to enforcing worker rights under the FTA. The Santos Administration has taken some important steps to date to implement the Action Plan. Its inclusion in the implementing legislation both acknowledges those efforts and provides leverage and encouragement to reformers in Colombia to push for vigorous implementation of reforms and to overcome resistance to that implementation. Worker rights and the Action Plan deserve to be elevated, not relegated. They need to be focused on, and not shunted aside. I am proposing an amendment to accomplish that vital goal and if it fails I urge a no vote. The issue today is not the need for expanded trade. There clearly is that need. But it is also vital as trade expands to maximize its benefits and minimize its downsides. Our two amendments are an effort to carry out that goal and we will continue to pursue that effort before these bills are presented for a formal vote.
06.29.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement: “It is outrageous that Republicans have blocked an extension of Trade Adjustment Assistance for nearly five months, cutting off vital retraining programs for American workers. I am pleased to see a path to renewal of this critical program, but remain dismayed that some Republicans seem intent on stonewalling any agreement on TAA, which until this year was long hailed as a hallmark of bipartisan achievement. “Democrats have fixed the Korea and Panama free trade agreements, both of which I actively support. On Korea, the renegotiated agreement opens a market for a key sector – the automotive industry – that until now has been shut out of the Korean market and sets an important precedent for ensuring that future agreements reinforce a two-way street for American products. Panama has now brought its labor laws into compliance and it has addressed our tax haven concerns and this FTA deserves our support. “The development of an Action Plan on Labor Rights is a vital prerequisite to action on the Colombia FTA. Without referencing the action plan, the implementing bill is fatally flawed and so I will actively oppose it.”
06.27.2011	Announces Support for Korea, Panama Free Trade Agreements Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today outlined vital changes that have been made to fix the Korea and Panama free trade agreements that were flawed as originally negotiated by President Bush and he announced his support for the revised agreements. He also announced his opposition to the Colombia Free Trade Agreement implementing bill without any reference to the Action Plan on Worker Rights. “Worker rights and the Action Plan deserve to be elevated, not relegated,” Ranking Member Levin said. “They deserve to be focused on, and not shunted aside. The implementing bill is the only vote that a Member casts on a trade agreement and refusal to refer to the Action Plan on Workers Rights is a fatal flaw.” KEY POINTS ON THREE FTAS: “Our workers and businesses deserve to know that we are standing up for them in the global marketplace, knocking down barriers to U.S. goods and services, and fighting for rules of competition that are fair.” “On Korea, the need for a two-way street in a key sector -- the automotive industry -- was a basic principle, as competition spread globally. And the final outcome in the Korea FTA was a fundamental breakthrough.” “Panama has now brought their labor laws into compliance and it has addressed our tax haven concerns. This FTA deserves our support. The United States has consistently maintained a trade surplus with Panama for over 20 years ($5.7 billion in 2010), and the trade agreement is expected to increase that surplus.” “Republican refusal to include in the Colombia FTA implementing bill a reference to the document addressing the core issue that had prevented consideration of the FTA – the Action Plan on Worker Rights – and the Administration’s acquiescence to that refusal are totally unacceptable. As such, the bill is not satisfactory, and I will actively oppose it.” BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS Fact Sheet on the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement available here. Fact Sheet on the U.S.-Panama Free Trade Agreement available here. FULL TRANSCRIPT OF REP. LEVIN’S REMARKS: Congressional Democrats have been actively working to shape a new trade policy that is responsive to the changing dynamics of a global economy. It is an approach premised on the reality that expanded trade does not automatically benefit everyone. We have to work to shape the course of trade so that its benefits are spread more broadly. We rejected the passive, hands-off approach of the Bush administration, and embraced expansion of trade in ways that acknowledge its impact and broaden its benefits. Our workers and businesses deserve to know that we are standing up for them in the global marketplace, knocking down barriers to U.S. goods and services, and fighting for rules of competition that are fair. Carrying out this new policy, we succeeded in pushing for the inclusion of enforceable worker rights and environmental standards in the Peru Free Trade Agreement (FTA). At that time, we made clear that the other pending Bush Trade Agreements with Korea, Panama and Colombia did not warrant our support because they each had problems that needed to be addressed. So while the Republican drumbeat called for the passage of these flawed trade agreements as is, we set about fixing them. I would like to discuss each trade agreement today. What was wrong with the Bush versions, what we strived to change, and whether or not they deserve the support of Congress. The U.S. - Korea FTA Negotiation of a free trade agreement with South Korea raised a fundamental principle – whether the United States would insist on creating conditions to allow two-way trade in a key sector, where to date, trade has been one way. What is at stake are American jobs. For decades, South Korea has employed a unique and ever changing regulatory regime to discriminate against auto imports, while the U.S. market has been open to their goods. As a result, U.S. automakers exported less than 14,000 cars to South Korea in 2010. In contrast, South Korean automakers have been able to use their historically closed market to finance an aggressive push into the U.S. market, through both exports (515,000 cars in 2010) and transplant production. In 2010, automotive trade accounted for more than 75 percent of the $10 billion U.S. trade deficit with South Korea. The Bush administration ignored Congressional and stakeholder calls to ensure the FTA meaningfully opened South Korea’s auto market to American products made by American workers, and concluded an agreement that would have locked in one-way trade. The Korean Government, encouraged by Republican support for accepting the 2007 FTA, refused to discuss changes. That began to change with the election of President Obama, who as a candidate expressed his opposition to the agreement unless a major one-way street in trade was ended. Congressional Democrats handed over our work product and the Administration began discussions with the Korean Government. Despite continuing pressures outside and too often within the Administration to settle for less, the President resisted pressures to settle at the G-20 for less than a real change. These pressures continued after the G-20, but for industry, labor, myself and others most involved, the need for a two way street in this key sector was a basic principle, as competition spread globally. And the final outcome was a fundamental breakthrough. I am providing today a one-page description of the important provisions carrying out the basic elements in the agreement that I actively support. I encouraged the Administration to submit the fixed Korea FTA when it was completed. I believed that would serve as evidence that the Obama Administration had a coherent trade policy that was far different from that of its predecessor and was ready to move forward on trade when it was done effectively. I regretted the Administration’s failure to do so. The challenge for the Administration now is to assume a leadership role in spelling out the advances in the revised agreement, which is especially necessary in an atmosphere of overall public skepticism about trade because of its lack of fairness, and in actively discussing any and all criticisms. The Panama and Colombia FTAs Panama and Colombia raise a different challenge to trade policy. It is one that has emerged as developed economies like our own have increasingly confronted trade with and competition from developing economies with very different economic structures, laws and practices, including in the area of workers’ rights. Workers in those developing countries must have basic rights if they are going to improve their financial standing and climb the economic ladder. This is vital to individuals and their families; it is critical to reducing poverty and the development of a country’s middle class. This is critical to expanding U.S. exports and U.S. jobs – the development of middle classes creates consumers and robust markets for our businesses and workers. And it’s also vitally important to U.S. workers, who should not compete unfairly with workers whose rights are suppressed, or who are killed in the exercise of those rights. That set off a 20-year battle: First NAFTA, which in side agreements included inadequate labor and environmental standards and lacked any enforceability. Moving on a different path, one framed by President Clinton as needing trade agreements to level up, not down, his administration with some active Congressional support initiated an agreement with Cambodia providing market access incentives if Cambodian enterprises adopted and enforced international labor standards. There followed negotiation of the Jordan FTA with a provision for worker rights with enforcement. That progress stalled and went backward with the onset of the Bush Administration, which renounced effective enforcement procedures in the Jordan labor provision, and which, working with the Republican House, negotiated FTAs that only required countries to enforce existing labor and environmental laws, regardless of how weak those laws may be. As a result, during that period, House Democrats who believed in expanded trade but also believed it was important to shape trade to spread its benefits worked with each of our prospective FTA partners to ensure their laws reflected basic international standards. Where that was achieved, we actively supported those agreements. Where that was not achieved – which was very much the case with the Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) – we opposed. CAFTA, in many ways, crystallized why this debate is so important. Poverty and income inequality are rampant in many of the Central American countries, as well as many other countries in Latin America. Without basic rights, workers in those countries would not be able to seize the benefits of the FTA and move up the economic ladder. When Democrats gained the majority in the House, we insisted, and the Bush Administration finally gave way, and with the May 10th Agreement, trade agreements would include fully enforceable basic worker rights for the first time. With the unwillingness of the Administration to undertake the task, we talked directly with the Peruvian Government to ensure they brought their legal structure into compliance before Congress voted on the agreement. They did so and acted on environmental issues and I actively supported passage of the Peru FTA. Panama With the May 10th agreement on worker rights also incorporated into the Panama FTA, in the absence of its being undertaken by the Bush Administration, I, along with the subcommittee staff, started immediately to work with the Panama government on specific changes to their laws to bring them into compliance with the FTA based on International Labor Organization standards. That work was interrupted when there was elected a Speaker of the Panamanian Assembly who was wanted on an arrest warrant for killing a U.S. soldier. After the Obama Administration took over, we turned over our work product and it re-commenced discussions with Panama. I am providing today a summary of the changes made by Panama. Panama has now brought their labor laws into compliance and it has addressed our tax haven concerns. This FTA deserves our support. The United States has consistently maintained a trade surplus with Panama for over 20 years ($5.7 billion in 2010), and the trade agreement is expected to increase that surplus. Colombia Before he was elected, President Obama stated that he opposed the Colombia FTA because of the suppression of worker rights and the high levels of violence against workers. Colombia is important to the United States. It has had a democratically elected government in a vital part of Latin America, relations with whom the U.S. often neglected. And under ATPA and GSP many Colombian goods were exported duty-free to the U.S. while American companies have faced tariffs in markets of opportunity for increased exports which tariffs would be eliminated or reduced in the FTA. In the spring, 2009 I went on a fact-finding trip to Colombia, a highly polarized society. Workers were without their basic rights and did not have hope that things would change. There was continued violence against a wide range of targets, including workers and their leaders; only a modicum of progress combating the wholesale impunity from punishment for crimes of violence, even on selected key cases. The State Department and ILO reports documented massive evidence of laws and practices limiting the ability of workers to exercise their basic international rights. I returned again in January of this year for another week of a wide variety of meetings. While basic conditions were persisting, what had changed was a new Administration under President Santos, expressing his intention to tackle the issues of suppression of worker rights and violence and impunity. Some action on difficult issues like land reform was being initiated and there was a sense among many citizens that I met with that there was cause for optimism that real change for workers and their families could come to Colombia. On return to Washington, I shared my specific observations on the opportunities provided by the FTA and the wide array of outstanding issues relating to worker rights, violence, and impunity with the Administration. Subsequently the Obama Administration began discussions with the Santos Administration to develop an Action Plan covering issues of worker rights, violence, and impunity. I returned to Colombia two weeks ago to again assess first-hand the elements in the Action Plan already agreed upon and those still being worked on regarding the basic issues on workers’ rights, on the changes in the legal structure and in practices inside and outside the government and on the status of actions on violence, on protection of workers and on bringing violators of their rights to justice. I discussed these issues with representatives of labor, individual Colombian and American companies, representatives of the Afro-Colombian population, and a variety of NGOs. On labor rights, President Santos has begun to take important steps to improve labor conditions and address violence and impunity, toward fulfilling obligations outlined in the Action Plan. A few key points are worth highlighting. First, on the widespread use of so-called cooperatives to disenfranchise workers of their rights to be represented in the workplace, the Santos Administration has just put in place potentially far reaching disciplines. If those disciplines are interpreted as broadly as they were drafted, and if they are enforced, they represent a major, meaningful effort to prevent employers from using these sham entities or, significantly, any other form of contracting, to hide direct employment relationships. Simply put, these new disciplines have the potential to address the complex ways in which Colombian employers have sought to suppress workers rights by avoiding directly employing workers. Second, the Santos Administration also recently enacted legislation imposing criminal penalties, including potential imprisonment, for anti-union activity. It is also through that legislation that the Santos Administration seeks to address another tool used by employers – collective pacts – to deter workers from organizing in any meaningful way, and which the ILO has repeatedly criticized. Specifically, the legislation criminalizes offering better terms in a collective pact than offered to workers in union. While the new criminal legislation falls short of the ILO recommendation to address collective pacts, it could, if cases are brought, have deterrent value, as could the general provision criminalizing anti-union conduct. Third, the Santos Administration has taken important steps to improve protection of threatened workers, including, by significantly expanding the scope of its existing protection program beyond labor leaders to include rank and file workers, as well as labor activists. The Santos Administration has also committed to reform its process for determining eligibility for protection by the Fall, and also, to ensure that protection is provided far more quickly than it has been in the past. Fourth, the Santos Administration has also committed to bring those who use violence and threats of violence to intimidate workers from exercising basic labor rights to justice – something the previous Colombian Administration also said they were committed to, though with little effect. To date, the new Fiscalia or Attorney General has increased the number of investigators assigned to labor violence cases by 50, and has committed to add another 45 by the end of this year. The Attorney General has also committed to revise its procedures for labor related investigations and prosecutions to ensure that both the investigations and prosecutions are thorough, and follow leads beyond the immediate perpetrators. Fifth, beyond the areas covered by the Action Plan, the Santos Administration has taken other important steps to promote labor rights. These include, most significantly, reaching agreement with Colombian unions to provide public sector workers bargaining rights, addressing a major ILO criticism. President Santos also recently concluded a first ever agreement with the Colombian teachers union (FECODE), addressing issues ranging from occupational health and housing to teacher training, professional development and security of union members. These changes have been coupled with other fundamental initiatives the new Santos Administration has undertaken during its first 10 months, including land restitution and reparations for victims and increased formalization of the Colombian economy. The resolve of the Santos Administration in challenging the status quo by carrying out the Action Plan will be tested by the legacy of suppression of worker rights, the history of violence and impunity, the role of entrenched interests among a relatively small powerful elite, and questions about the translation of political will at the top to those who need to execute that will. That resolve also must be accompanied by ours. That resolve has been tested in the Administration's design of the implementing bill. The development of an Action Plan on worker rights represented a vital prerequisite to action on the Colombia FTA. Unfortunately, pursuing their opposition to incorporation of workers rights in trade agreements, Republicans have rejected reference to the Action Plan in the implementing bill. Republican refusal to include in the implementing bill a reference to the document addressing the core issue which had prevented consideration of the FTA – the Action Plan on Labor Rights - and the Administration’s acquiescence to that refusal are totally unacceptable. As such, it is not satisfactory, and I will actively oppose it. There are important reasons for including it: First, there is a clear relationship to workers rights between those in the Action Plan and the provisions in the FTA which must be acknowledged and understood. The Action Plan spells out and gives meaning in the particular Colombian context to the general standard contained in provisions in the FTA on basic international workers rights. That is important because, contrary to the comments of some, enforcement of worker rights can be addressed through the dispute settlement structure in the FTA if Colombia were to fail to fulfill commitment under the Action Plan and that failure impacts the ability of Colombian workers to exercise basic labor rights. Second, experience has shown that there are always counter pressures within Administrations and on the outside against action to enforce provisions on worker rights through use of the dispute settlement or other procedures. That has clearly been true in instances of efforts at enforcement of labor provisions in our laws regarding GSP, Jordan and CAFTA. Third, inclusion of a clear link between the Action Plan and the FTA sends a powerful signal to everyone in Colombia that the U.S. is serious about the fulfillments of commitments in the Plan. This will provide important leverage and encouragement to those battling for labor reforms and concrete actions on violence and impunity. Fourth, inclusion of a clear link between the Action Plan and the FTA helps send a necessary message within our nation that trade policy is changing, including to ensure U.S. workers do not compete against workers whose rights are violated. Fifth, the Korea FTA implementing bill will address the 2011 market access agreement which was concluded to resolve the issues that had prevented action on the U.S. Korea FTA. Omission of this in the Korea FTA would have been indefensible. Similarly, there is no defensible reason for failing to include a reference to the Action Plan in the Colombia FTA bill. And, there is precedent even in the case of the wholly defective NAFTA side agreements which were included in the implementing bill voted on by Congress. Sixth, some of the issues relating to Colombia are arising in trade agreements now being negotiated, including Transpacific Partnership (TPP) which as I stated at Singapore in 2009 I favor actively pursuing. There will be a need to resist pressures to weaken our approach to workers rights as well as the environment as well as other May 10th issues. This has been an important battle over one of the significant parts of a new trade policy. Worker rights and the Action Plan deserve to be elevated, not relegated. They need to be focused on, and not shunted aside. The implementing bill is the only vote that a Member casts on a trade agreement and refusal to refer to the Action Plan on Workers Rights in the implementing bill is a fatal flaw.
06.17.2011	Continue to Press for Vote on Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) issued the following statements today ahead of tomorrow’s one-year anniversary of China’s announcement that it would allow greater exchange rate flexibility. The anniversary comes as House Democrats prepare to force a vote on the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2011: “Recent studies indicate China’s currency is even more undervalued today than it was a year ago, when China promised us progress,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander M. Levin. “Eight years of quiet diplomacy have yielded meager results. It is time for Congress to provide relief to U.S. companies and workers injured by China’s practices, and to provide U.S. officials greater leverage in their negotiations with China. The same legislation that passed the House last fall by a vote of 348 to 79, with majorities of both parties voting in support, should be taken to the House floor without further delay.” “American workers deserve immediate action on currency legislation. It is abundantly clear that we need to take a more assertive approach on this issue – and that our unsustainable global trade imbalance will only get worse if China continues to manipulate its currency,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott. China has allowed only a modest appreciation of its currency over the past year (roughly 5%) – and about half of that appreciation occurred in the six weeks last Fall when the House of Representatives was considering and acting upon the currency bill that passed the House. According to a recent estimate from economists at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, when all factors are taken into consideration, China’s currency is even more undervalued today than it was a year ago (28.5% against the dollar today versus 24.2% against the dollar last year). And, in the first quarter of this year, China accumulated an additional $197 billion in foreign exchange reserves in its effort to prevent its currency from appreciating. Secretary Geithner recently stated that China’s currency remains “substantially undervalued” and that “progress thus far is insufficient.” But he again decided against designating China as a currency manipulator. Treasury has expressed concern over China’s exchange rate policy for at least eight years, in early 2003. H.R. 639 (the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act) will help American businesses compete on a more level playing field, by allowing for the imposition of “countervailing” import duties to offset the undervalued currency where imports have caused “material injury” to a U.S. industry. Last year, the House passed a virtually identical bill that passed the House by a vote of 348 to 79, with a majority of both parties voting in support. H.R. 639 currently has 156 co-sponsors. ###
06.16.2011	Would Help Avert Republican Efforts to End Medicare WASHINGTON— Representatives Henry A. Waxman, Sander Levin, Pete Stark, John D. Dingell, George Miller, and Rob Andrews have introduced legislation that would save the government billions by reducing Medicare Part D drug costs for taxpayers. The bill would save more than $100 billion – without resorting to the Republicans’ reckless proposal to double seniors’ health care costs by 2022 by dismantling Medicare. The Medicare Drug Savings Act of 2011 (H.R. 2190) will eliminate a sweetheart deal for brand-name drug manufacturers that allows them to charge Medicare higher prices for millions of low-income enrollees in the Medicare Part D program. Prior to 2006, the government received substantial rebates on drugs used by “dual eligible” Medicare and Medicaid enrollees. However, beginning in 2006, the Republicans’ Medicare Part D law eliminated these rebates, dramatically raising prices for the government and profits for manufacturers. The Part D deal resulted in a substantial drug manufacturer windfall. The bill eliminates the windfall and requires that manufacturers pay the rebates for dual eligible and low-income Part D enrollees, ensuring that taxpayers and the Medicare program do not overpay for Part D drugs. “The Affordable Care Act greatly strengthened Medicare's financial footing. Republicans want to end Medicare and shift costs to seniors and people with disabilities. This bill shows there are ways to substantially reduce Medicare costs without hurting beneficiaries,” said Rep. Levin, Ranking Member of the Committee on Ways and Means. “Instead of making devastating cuts to programs that help low-income and middle-income Americans, as Republicans keep putting on the table, we should do what every other industrialized country does and ask the pharmaceutical industry, one of the wealthiest in the world, to chip in. What’s more, the savings from this legislation could pay for a multi-year ‘doc fix’ -- something we tried to do in a comprehensive way but have had to address yearly so Medicare’s payments to doctors aren't slashed,” said Rep. Stark, Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee. “We face a stark choice. The Republicans have proposed eliminating basic Medicare and Medicaid guarantees. But Democrats have better ideas. This bill saves Medicare more than $100 billion by eliminating drug manufacturer windfalls instead of hurting seniors,” said Rep. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “Ending pharmaceutical manufacturers’ means of overcharging for drugs for “dual eligible” enrollees in the Medicare Part D drug program saves taxpayers billions of dollars and helps us cut the deficit without ending Medicare as we know it. When this provision was included in the health reform bill that passed the House, it made sense, and it makes sense today. This proposal must be on the table as we consider responsible ways to reduce our budget deficit,” said Rep. Dingell. “The federal government is the largest payor for senior’s drugs and it is absurd we do not use our bargaining power to negotiate drug discounts with the high profit pharmaceutical industry. Unlike the Republican plan, Democrats recognize that you don’t reform Medicare by ending the program nor do you make Medicaid sustainable by simply shifting the costs onto states. This bill will improve Medicare and Medicaid’s sustainability while still providing the needed benefits our nation’s citizens depend on,” said Rep. Miller, Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Rather than finding sustainable solutions to strengthen Medicare, Republicans propose to end it entirely and deny seniors the right to a dignified retirement. This legislation will protect seniors while recouping billions of dollars in taxpayer dollars paid to the pharmaceutical industry,” said Rep. Andrews, Ranking Member of the Education and the Workforce Health Subcommittee. Background: The rebate policies in the Medicare Drug Savings Act of 2011 would reduce the deficit by $112 billion over the next ten years according to the Congressional Budget Office. A series of investigative reports by then-Oversight Committee Chairman Waxman found that drug costs in the Medicare Part D program are substantially higher than costs for those same drugs under Medicaid. The bill provides that for dual-eligible and low-income Part D enrollees, manufacturers provide Part D rebates to equalize these costs. A similar proposal was also included in the recommendations from the President’s Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. The legislation would require prescription drug manufacturers to provide a rebate for drugs provided to dually eligible beneficiaries as well as all other enrollees in the low-income-subsidy (LIS) program in the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Program. Drug manufacturers currently provide rebates for other Medicaid beneficiaries and, until 2006 when they were eliminated in the Republican Part D drug law, provided these same rebates for dually eligible beneficiaries. As in the Medicaid program, drug manufacturers would be required to pay the difference between the average rebates they are paying to private Part D drug plans, and 23.1 percent of Average Manufacture Price (AMP). They would be required to pay additional rebates if drug prices increase faster than the underlying inflation rate. Manufacturers would be required to participate in the rebate program in order for their drugs to be covered by Medicare Part D. The bill was also introduced in the Senate by Senators Rockefeller (D-WV), Bingaman (NM), Blumenauer (D-OR), Boxer (D-CA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Stabenow (D-MI). (####)
06.07.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin, Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott and Rep. Earl Blumenauer, including nine other Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee, were joined by leaders from the conservation community in releasing a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk urging the inclusion of strong, enforceable environmental provisions in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). They praised the innovative conservation text that has already been proposed in the TPP negotiations that compels strong action to address the illegal trade in wood and wood products, illegal wildlife trade, fisheries subsidies, marine conservation and shark preservation. “Enforceable environmental commitments are a cornerstone of Democrats’ trade agenda and are critical to ensuring that U.S workers and businesses can compete on a level playing field,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Levin. “Failing to include meaningful obligations in the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement – at least as robust as the environmental provisions in the Peru FTA and in the three pending FTAs – is a non-starter.” “The May 10 Agreement of 2007 was a big down payment toward restoring bipartisan congressional support for U.S. trade policy,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member McDermott. “We cannot go back on that deal. The American public overwhelmingly supports the inclusion of strong environmental obligations in our trade agreements, and I fully expect the TPP will do that.” “It is imperative that the May 10th provisions on the environment be included in the TPP,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “These provisions help to build stronger environmental laws around the world, generate sustainable development in all the partner countries, and give force to the President’s call for a high-standards agreement.” “If not properly managed, free trade agreements can exacerbate the exploitation of already depleted wildlife, fish and forests,” said Todd Shelton, Vice President of U.S. Government Relations at the World Wildlife Fund. “The basic environmental provisions of the May 10th trade deal are essential, at a minimum, to limit the increased pressure from trade on vulnerable species and ecosystems.” “In order for the TPP to benefit the environment as well as expend trade, the nine countries entering into the TPP must ensure that they prevent illegal trade in wood, wildlife and marine species and rectify other longstanding conservation issues” said Mark W. Roberts, Senior Counsel at the Environmental Investigation Agency. “The TPP must harmonize trade liberalization with progressive and enforceable protection of the environment.” “We are pleased that key federal lawmakers are committed to including critical issues like illegal wildlife trade in the Trans Pacific Partnership Agreement,” said Marta Prado, Executive Director for International Trade and Development at Humane Society International. “We also applaud their strong leadership in working towards ensuring the provisions of the Bipartisan Trade Deal are incorporated in the Trans Pacific Partnership Trade Agreement.” The letter to the US Trade Representative urged that he do more to ensure that the environmental provisions called for in the May 10th bipartisan deal on trade be fully incorporated into the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement. The provisions in question were incorporated in the U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement that passed with bipartisan support and are included in all three pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea. The letter urges that the May 10th provisions on the environment be included in the TPP. Those provisions include: • The effective enforcement of multilateral environmental agreements• The non-derogation from a party’s environmental laws; and• The application of dispute settlement provisions for environmental obligations with the same stringent enforcement and remedies that apply to commercial obligations. While some environmental provisions are already being negotiated, the May 10th language is yet to be released, and the signatories to the letter wanted to convey to the U.S. Trade Representative that the Trans-Pacific Partnership would not have their support without the strong environmental language called for in the 2007 may 10th Agreement. More information on the Bipartisan May 10th Free Trade Agreement can be found here. (####)
06.03.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statements regarding the May jobs report released today: “Instead of acting as partners in promoting economic recovery, Republicans in Washington are making it harder to create jobs,” said Committee Ranking Member Levin. “They threaten to shut down the government, they threaten to default on our Nation’s debts, and they threaten the jobs of teachers, police officers and many others. Creating this kind of uncertainty hurts our economic recovery.” “Obsessed with their radical agenda, Republicans have offered nothing but distractions from the real work that remains to create opportunity for those Americans still struggling to find work,” said Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Doggett. (####)
06.03.2011	Over the last months, there has been a great deal of discussion about the need for tax reform – a discussion that I welcome. Twenty-five years ago, I was not yet on the Ways & Means Committee, but I took a keen interest in the work that went into the Tax Reform Act of 1986. In 1985, the Ways & Means Committee held 30 days of full committee hearings on tax reform, followed by 26 days of mark-up. Members debated every aspect of the tax code, often provision by provision. Today there is again a real need for reform. As we continue this discussion, tax reform is too important to be discussed only in glittering generalities. That has been too true to date, obscuring realities and unduly raising expectations. It is irresponsible to throw out goals, numeric or otherwise, without any indication of how to achieve them, as done in the Republicans’ budget. We must be serious about tax reform, and we have to be serious about its implications. We need to be specific about what we hope to accomplish, and specific about how those goals relate to our present code. My goal today is, in part, to dig beneath the glittering surface and bring to light some realities that should assist us in accomplishing real tax reform. Clearly there is a need to address redundancies and reduce complexity. For individuals, the tax code can be a daunting system that is difficult to understand and comply with. This complexity and redundancy, even among some important provisions that have helped support and build the middle class, undermines the effectiveness of policy. Our tax system helps families afford college through the American Opportunity Credit, the Hope Credit, the Lifetime Learning Credit, a deduction for tuition, a deduction for student loan interest, Coverdell education savings accounts and 529 plans. Similarly, we encourage home ownership through the mortgage interest deduction, the exclusion of gain recognized on the sale or exchange of a primary residence, the deductibility of state and local property taxes and the deductibility of mortgage insurance premiums; in the recent past, we offered a temporary homebuyer credit. For retirement savings there is an alphabet soup of plans and incentives including 401(k)s, 403(b)s, IRAs, Roth IRAs, SEP IRAs and Keogh plans. In each area, provisions that serve a common goal have different rules, definitions and phase-outs that a taxpayer has to try to make sense of. In addition to complexity, the Alternative Minimum Tax increases the tax liability of four million taxpayers every year, and causes millions more to compute their tax twice to determine if they are affected. As disruptive as this is, it would be even more so but for the annual “patch” enacted by Congress to prevent as many as 20 million taxpayers from paying the AMT. For corporations, we have created enormous uncertainty by enacting too many provisions on a temporary basis, such as the R&D credit. This uncertainty undermines the efficacy of these provisions, since taxpayers cannot use them if they cannot plan for them. Simplification of our corporate income tax would free up resources now devoted to compliance for more productive purposes. Even as the current discussion has been stuck in generalities, it has also gotten ahead of itself in that there are no principles guiding reform. In the 1986 Act, reform proceeded from three principles: Fairness, Efficiency and Simplicity. I propose that we build on that with three additional principles to guide today’s tax reform efforts: tax reform should protect working families; it should encourage economic growth and job creation in the United States; and it should be fiscally responsible. The approach advocated by House Republicans has been to simply announce that tax reform should achieve a top rate of 25% for both individuals and corporations, with no discussion whatsoever of what we would need to change and give up to achieve those rates. This is the equivalent of putting a blindfold on, spinning around three times, and picking a number. It’s time to take the blindfold off. It’s time to understand clearly what that would mean for working families. Working families should be a focus of tax reform, not an afterthought. Since the last major tax reform in 1986, the pretax income of the vast majority of Americans has been stagnant, while the highest earners have seen dramatic gains. In 2008, the average income for the bottom 90% of earners was essentially the same in real terms as it was in 1986. But the top 1% saw a gain of 50% to $1.1 million. The top one-tenth of one percent saw a gain of 61% to $5.6 million. Some on the other side like to complain about the share of taxes paid by upper-income households. Their share of taxes has risen, but so has their income. The share of pre-tax income going to the top 10% rose from 41% in 1986 to 48% in 2008, and the share going to the top 1% rose from 16% to 21%. The tax system does not do much to reduce this disparity. In 2007, the top 1% of households had 19% of national income before taxes, and 17% after taxes. The bottom 20% on the other hand had 4% of national income before taxes and 5% after taxes. It is also not fair to say that “half of all Americans do not pay tax,” as some do. All working Americans pay payroll taxes, which make up 40% of federal revenues. All income quintiles have a positive average tax rate when all federal taxes are included. In 1986, there was bipartisan agreement that reform should be distributionally neutral, that it should not shift the tax burden from one group of taxpayers to another. Given the wage stagnation that most Americans have experienced over the last 25 years, and the sharp increase in income inequality, we should make clear that we are not going to unfairly increase the tax burden of working families. Tax reform must not make our tax system less progressive. The discussion so far has been dominated by those calling for a sweeping cut to the top tax rates and paying for them through the elimination of tax credits and deductions – the largest of which benefit America’s middle class. Some of the more concrete proposals, such as one of the options put forth by the bipartisan fiscal commission, have called for the elimination of virtually all of these provisions in order to pay for lower rates. The discussion of tax credits and deductions needs to recognize that the vast majority of these provisions – by value – benefit individuals, not businesses. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, 92% of these provisions by value benefited individuals in 2007. Of those, 74% of the value falls into four categories: Capital Gains and Dividends, Health, Retirement Savings, and Owner-Occupied Housing. Ultimately, these are provisions that Congress would need to curtail in order to reduce the top individual rate to 25%. One of the illustrative tax reform plans in the Bowles-Simpson report achieved a 24% individual rate (and raised some revenue for deficit reduction) by eliminating every so-called tax expenditure other than the Earned Income Tax Credit and the Child Tax Credit. Let me say that again: by eliminating every individual tax benefit other than the EITC and the Child Credit. That means no mortgage interest deduction, no charitable deduction, no health insurance exclusion, no state and local income tax deduction, no exclusion for pensions, no IRAs and 401(k)s and no exclusion for military and veterans benefits. If no money had been set aside for deficit reduction, it might have been possible to retain one or two of the major provisions while still lowering the rate, but certainly not more than one or two. Thus, even under the most optimistic assessment, a 25% top rate would require the elimination of nearly all of the major tax benefits for individuals in the code. So to reduce the top marginal rate for the wealthiest people in this country to 25%, Republicans would need to eliminate many provisions that benefit – and indeed helped build – the middle class of this country. There is a growing assumption that tax benefits, and itemized deductions in particular, primarily benefit the wealthy and that their elimination, in conjunction with lower rates, would benefit the middle class. I don’t believe this – my experience and, more importantly, the data support the reality that many of these provisions have helped support and build the middle class. In my district outside Detroit, and all over this country, middle-class families bought their own homes, often for the first time, in part because of the mortgage interest deduction. They had employer pensions and employer-provided health care, again often for the first time, in part because of tax preferences. They sent their children to college, again a first for many of these families, in part because of tax preferences for education. The Joint Committee on Taxation reports on the distribution of many of these provisions as part of its annual tax expenditure pamphlet, and we have asked them to analyze more of them. It is often assumed, and unchallenged, that these provisions primarily benefit upper-income households. The results are somewhat surprising. In this chart, you can see that the exclusion for employer-provided health care and the deduction for self-employed health benefit, for instance, benefits over 58 million households making less than $100,000, representing 46% of the total benefit of the provision. If you go up to $200,000, you are looking at nearly 77 million households, and almost 82% of the benefit. The health care exclusion is a broadly utilized benefit for the middle class. But the chart doesn’t tell the whole story. The elimination of the exclusion for employer-provided health care would disproportionately burden those in occupations that have high health care costs – police and firefighters, miners, and factory workers – not lawyers and lobbyists. Similarly, this chart shows that 70% of the benefit of the mortgage interest deduction goes to 31 million households making less than $200,000. And interestingly, less than 5% of the benefit of the deduction is associated with second homes. But it is unlikely that the burden of repeal would fall on the wealthiest taxpayers. The wealthiest homeowners could sell assets that are currently generating taxable income and pay down their mortgages. As a result, their tax bills would not go up. Middle-class homeowners, whose wealth is mostly tied up in their homes, would not have the same ability to shift assets in their portfolios and would bear the cost of repeal. Moreover, we must be very careful with respect to any action that could further reduce home values in the United States. The benefit of the charitable deduction and the deduction for state and local income taxes are somewhat more concentrated in the upper-income ranges, but in both cases nearly half of the benefit is still going to more than 20 million households making less than $200,000. But again, the charts do not tell the whole story. In the case of the deduction for State and local taxes, the deduction is primarily a matter of fairness: it prevents double taxation of income. If a repeal of the deduction led State and local governments to reduce taxes and cut services, those cuts are likely to be in services that support working families. In the case of the charitable deduction, one has to keep in mind that the recipients of the contributions include universities, hospitals, churches and soup kitchens that provide critical services to working families. The EITC and Child Credit are targeted at low-income families, and between them they lift seven million working families out of poverty each year. Likewise, the education credits are targeted, so essentially all of the benefit goes to families making less than $200,000. Tax reform that builds the middle class must retain these benefits. One notable exception to this pattern is the preferential rate for capital gains and dividends. The 15% maximum capital gains rate is estimated to cost $55.9 billion this year on a static basis. As you can see, the Joint Committee estimates that 71% of that benefit will go to 138,000 households making more than $1 million per year. About 12% goes to households making less than $200,000. Dividends are slightly less skewed toward the wealthiest taxpayers, but still 41% of the benefit of the 15% dividend rate goes to those making over $1 million. These preferential rates make it possible for the richest 400 Americans, whose average income in 2007 was $345 million, to pay tax at an average effective rate less than 17 percent – a rate lower than that paid by many middle-class families. read the PDF read the PDF When you put all of this together, it is hard to see how the tax reform outline in the Republican budget would benefit working families. While a top rate of 25% may sound tantalizing to some, to raise the revenue necessary to keep the reform revenue neutral, you would have to eliminate virtually every tax incentive for middle-income and poor families. Even if proponents of such a rate eliminate the capital gains and dividend preferences, a rate that low still likely means a tax cut for many of those at the top, and a tax increase for broad portions of the middle class. We should simplify the code to reduce overlap and unnecessary complexity. We should make sure that tax incentives are working as intended. But we should not blindly cut back the policies that helped to build a strong middle class in order to remake the rate structure in a way that benefits those at the top. The need for tax reform also comes at a time when we need to find common ground on a balanced framework for immediate and long-term deficit reduction that allows for investments in economic growth. We are still emerging from the worst recession since the Great Depression, and targeted government investments in infrastructure, research and education will continue to be a key to getting Americans back to work. The second key principle of tax reform is that it should encourage economic growth and domestic job creation. I think we should lower our corporate tax rate in a manner that does not lose revenue, but the trade-offs involved in getting there matter. In the corporate tax system, three of the largest tax expenditures are the Section 199 domestic manufacturing deduction, accelerated depreciation, and the R&D credit. Each of these provisions provides a direct incentive to invest and create jobs here in the United States. We need to really understand the effect of these provisions, what we would be getting if we eliminate them, and the implications of a reformed system for domestic job creation. At the same time, we should examine whether each of these provisions is providing as strong an incentive for investment and job creation as it could be. Over the last 14 months, the economy has created more than two million private sector jobs and economic recovery is slowly taking hold. But we still have a long way to go before we make up the nearly nine million jobs destroyed by the financial crisis and recession; so we must be extremely sensitive to the effect tax reform has on jobs. Much of the discussion on corporate tax reform so far has centered on our international tax system. These issues are inherently complicated. Some years ago, my colleague Amo Houghton and I sat down with the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation and essentially had a seminar on international corporate taxation for several days. We introduced a bill with a number of provisions designed to better reflect the realities of international competition, and a number of them became law. It was clear that some of the larger issues like deferral and worldwide versus territorial systems required further consideration and work, because there was no consensus about the effect of potential changes. We need to move beyond the current easy rhetoric about a move to a territorial system because it does have the potential to encourage American corporations to shift more of their income, and possibly jobs, overseas. If we are going to consider a territorial system, we will need to strengthen our transfer pricing rules, address the allocation of expenses, and consider provisions to deal with tax havens. Similarly, we will need to carefully weigh the burdens that might be imposed on American workers by the elimination of provisions in the present worldwide system such as the export sales-source rule and rules that allow tax on foreign-source royalties to be minimized. These rules support U.S. exporters and U.S. R&D, respectively. Would a territorial system offer the same benefits to the providers of good jobs? Furthermore, it was striking in a recent hearing in the Ways & Means Committee about other countries’ tax systems that all of the countries that were looked at had taken measures to protect their corporate tax bases, limit income shifting, and limit abuse. These provisions have the effect of turning these systems into hybrids – no one has a pure territorial system. But these provisions, which will not be universally popular with multinationals and their lobbyists, would be a critical part of any reform. We should also be very wary of proposals to repeal provisions that encourage domestic investment in order to pay for a move to a territorial system. Depending on the design of such a system, it could lose tens – if not hundreds – of billions of dollars over ten years. It is far from clear whether or how Republicans could offset those losses while lowering the corporate rate to 25% and raising the same level of revenue as the present system. We need to carefully examine all of these issues so that we can reform our corporate tax code in a way that encourages economic growth, investment, and job creation. Finally, we have to recognize that this entire debate is taking place in the context of our need to implement a framework for immediate and long-term deficit reduction. Whether as part of tax reform or separately, revenues need to be part of the solution. In 2010, federal revenues as a percentage of GDP were 14.9%, near historic lows. This is due in no small part to the recession, but the Bush tax cuts played a large role as well. Today, Republicans are not only refusing to even discuss revenues as part of deficit reduction goals, they are trying to rig tax reform. The Republican proposal would “stabilize revenues at 18 to 19 percent of GDP,” which implies making the Bush tax cuts permanent, even for the highest earners. During the only five years we have had balanced budgets since World War II, revenues averaged 20% of GDP. So even as an aging population places increased pressure on our healthcare and retirement systems, and even as we have incurred higher national security costs since 9/11, the Republicans want to shrink revenues. This reflects a prevailing Republican ideology of shrinking government down to a size where, as Grover Norquist puts it, they can “drown it in the bathtub.” Or, as a Republican witness at a recent hearing in the Ways & Means Committee put it, government is a “disease.” Overall then, we should be working to reform our tax code. But we need to go into this effort with our eyes wide open, not blindfolded. We need to be clear and specific about what we hope to accomplish. We need tax reform that protects working families, encourages economic growth and domestic job creation, and is fiscally responsible. Unfortunately, the goals laid out by the Republican majority, while vague, have clear implications that should make us very skeptical of whether their reform plans could achieve any of those goals. It’s time to take off the blindfold and get down to work. (####)
06.02.2011	In announcing this hearing, Chairman Camp indicated that it would include an examination of “the trade-offs that… companies might be willing to make given current fiscal constraints.” I think most of us agree that a lower corporate rate is desirable. But the trade-offs involved in getting there truly matter. We have learned in our prior hearings that businesses seem generally to agree that tax reform should be revenue neutral. The inevitable consequence is a shifting of the burden of the current level of taxation, and there will be winners and losers. We must now examine the true impact on domestic companies if we were to repeal important tax benefits that encourage investment and jobs in the United States. Considering that we have spent the last four Full Committee hearings on tax reform mostly at a 30,000 foot level, we welcome this opportunity to move beyond generalities and examine the benefits that companies would be willing to give up in order to achieve the goal laid out in the Republican budget of a top corporate and individual tax rate of 25 percent. We indeed need to carefully examine these issues so that we can reform our tax code and corporate tax code in a way that encourages economic growth, investment, and job creation. With that in mind, I look forward to our witnesses’ testimony. (####)
06.01.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), together with Reps. John D. Dingell (D-MI) and Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), were joined by 14 other colleagues in urging the House Appropriations Committee to use emergency spending authority for tornado and flood disaster relief rather than taking funding from important programs like the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing program (ATVM). “The recent tornados and flooding that have devastated the lives of hundreds of American families and there is a clear need for emergency funding,” said Rep. Levin. “We are also at a critical juncture in the commercialization of advanced vehicle technology to power the next generation of cars and trucks. It is vital that the federal government continue its partnership with industry to ensure the new advanced vehicles and their critical components are manufactured here in America.” “The natural and unforeseen tragedies that occur in our nation devastate communities and need both immediate attention and federal assistance,” said Rep. Dingell. “But to take critical funding away from domestic programs that are vital to our economic recovery and global competition is impulsive and potentially harmful. We have learned the hard way too many times that even in tragic emergencies, we must be thoughtful and careful with funding distribution.” “The ATVM program is an important element to the nation’s clean energy future and a crucial tool for retaining U.S. competitiveness in the quickly changing international automobile industry,” said Rep. Waxman. “We must be willing to invest in clean energy technology if we hope to meet our energy needs while protecting the environment and retaining our economic position in the global economy.” The full text of the letter is below and linked to here. Dear Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Dicks, We write to you today with deep concern regarding the Homeland Security Appropriations bill marked up in the Appropriations Committee last week. As we understand it, this legislation could be on the floor as early as Wednesday of this week. The tornados and flooding in the Midwest and Southeast have taken a devastating toll on the people of those regions. The death toll due to tornados for 2011 has already reached more than 520, making this year the deadliest year for tornados since 1950. Indeed, in Missouri, there are still a number of people unaccounted for. The damage in the Southeast is equally as bad, with nearly as many fatalities. In addition, countless individuals and families have lost their homes and belongings due to flooding along the Mississippi. As a result of these tragedies, the Committee wisely provided funding to address the costs of these incidents in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill. The devastation clearly must be addressed. In order to properly pay for the incidents in the Midwest and Southeast, which will likely cost many billions of dollars, Congress has emergency spending authority. This authority has customarily been used to pay for unforeseen events. The normal budgetary caps do not apply, thus no offset is required. We strongly urge you to proceed down this path rather than taking funding from important programs like the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) program. The ATVM program was established in 2007 and consists of direct loans for vehicle and parts manufacturers to convert their factories to build the fuel efficient cars of the future. This program is critical to the competitiveness of the United States and supports the important goal of moving to clean energy in the automotive sector. The program helps to ensure that new advanced vehicles are more efficient than conventional cars and trucks. If the United States is to succeed, we cannot keep fighting for last year’s technology. The ATVM program helps us get to and stay on the technological forefront. Simply put, this program is too important to be cut. While we must deal with the unsustainable deficit, we also must take care of the American people whose lives have been nearly destroyed through no fault of their own. As such, we urge you to move forward with an emergency spending bill that takes care of the unforeseeable emergencies, keeps us on solid fiscal footing and does not harm future American competitiveness. (####)
06.01.2011	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on the House floor regarding Republicans bringing up a bill to raise the debt limit for the sole purpose of voting it down: “Mr. Speaker, bringing up this bill in this fashion is a ploy so egregious that Republicans have had to spend the last week pleading with Wall Street not to take it seriously and risk our economic recovery. “If Republicans were being truthful, they’d admit that they’re looking for political cover, but in their doing so they risk blowing a hole in our nation’s economy. “They’d acknowledge that their timing is an effort to change the subject less than a week after their plan to end Medicare was dealt a major setback by voters in a New York special election whose Democratic winner will be sworn in tomorrow. “To act in good faith to solve our nation’s fiscal problems, the Republicans should focus not on this ploy but on the budget negotiations being led by the Vice President. “Our nation’s debt is indeed a problem that requires serious solutions – not ploys that risk another global financial crisis. “I reserve the balance of my time.” (####)
06.01.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement on the House floor regarding Republicans’ “deem and pass” rule that reaffirms their commitment to end Medicare: “This is indeed an open rule. In the sense it's so open that if you vote for the rule you're voting to end Medicare. Republicans have done this once. If you vote for this you're going to do it twice. And the gentleman who is handling this for the majority earlier talked about Medicare and said the Republicans are trying to save it. You don't save something by ending it -- purely and simply. And to come to this floor and say you're saving it when you're ending it -- that kind of talk is a big lie. “We heard this with Social Security some years ago, when the effort to privatize it was said to be an effort to save it. The public caught on and the public said no. The public has now said no to ending Medicare, but essentially you're tone deaf. Now you're doubling down on your plan to end it, a plan that would force seniors to pay twice as much for their health care, a plan that increases seniors' drug costs and a plan that puts insurance companies in charge of senior health care. “So, instead of a bipartisan effort to save it, by this rule you are essentially deeming the budget that you passed that ended Medicare. So don't come and say you're saviors when you are eliminating a program. Stand up and be honest and say you want to replace it with something else. That something else is not Medicare, it's turning over to the private insurance industry and saying to seniors who become eligible, who would be, instead you are going to double your costs. That's not forthright. If you vote again, if you vote yes on the rule, you are the second time voting to end Medicare. I yield back.” (####)
05.26.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement in response to the introduction of Republicans’ so-called jobs agenda: “Republicans are trying to change the subject from their plan to end Medicare after Tuesday’s stunning public rebuke. In doing so, they’ve landed on a proposal equally distressing: a plan that would inevitably raise taxes on the middle class. “We need tax reform, not loose talk from Republicans about reducing the top individual rate to 25 percent and creating a $2.9 trillion budget hole in the process that could only be filled by eliminating an array of tax benefits that helped grow the middle class, such as the mortgage interest deduction and the exclusion for employer provided healthcare. Republicans, meanwhile, insist on massive tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans and continuing subsidies for big oil companies. “After nearly a half year in charge, Republicans have not passed a single jobs bill. Instead they’ve tried to cover their tracks by masking a measure as a ‘jobs bill’ that passed out of the Ways and Means Committee two weeks ago and would end the guarantee of federal unemployment insurance for more than four million Americans still looking for work.” (####)
05.25.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and U.S. Rep. Sander Levin, D-12, said today that Sterling Heights residents Violeta and Ola Kaso have been granted a one-year deferment of their deportation. Both Sen. Levin and Rep. Levin wrote letters to the director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) asking for deferment of their deportations. ICE granted a one-year deferment on Monday. Sen. Levin and Rep. Levin welcomed the decision in a letter to ICE today and indicated they would be seeking a solution to allow the Kasos to remain in the United States permanently. The Kaso family moved to the United States legally in 1998 after fleeing Albania, but they lost their bid for permanent residency because an attorney failed to properly file paperwork. Ola Kaso is set to graduate Cousino High School next month, and the family had been ordered to leave the country immediately afterwards. Sen. Levin said: “Violeta and Ola are Michiganians through and through who have contributed greatly to our community. Ola is an extremely high-achieving student who will be enrolling in University of Michigan’s Honors College this fall. Violeta is a successful business owner who operates Honey Bee Bakery in Center Line. The Kasos have great support from the community; my office received more than 12,000 messages in opposition to their deportation.” Rep. Levin said: “The Kasos do not deserve to be deported for a paperwork error that wasn’t even their fault. I am pleased that ICE has granted this deferment, and we’ll continue working with the agency and the family in an effort to allow the Kasos to remain in the United States permanently.” (####)
05.24.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a Joint Session of Congress: “Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave a strong and constructive speech this morning that reinforced the historic partnership of our two nations. Taken with the views expressed by President Obama, I hope the opportunity exists to reignite a negotiated two-state settlement that fully ensures the security of Israel.” (####)
05.24.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement after Chrysler repaid its federal loans six years ahead of schedule: "Chrysler's ability to secure private financing and repay the debt portion of its federal assistance is another important milestone in the revitalization of the domestic auto industry. With a renewed focus on building outstanding cars and trucks, Chrysler is demonstrating that the decision to stand up for our auto sector was the right one for our nation’s economy.” (####)
05.24.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) is pleased to sponsor Ashley Tomasello, a junior at South Lake High School, for the Congressional Page Program offered by the U.S. House of Representatives. Ms. Tomasello will serve as a Congressional Page from June 26 through August 6, 2011 in Washington, D.C. “The Congressional Page Program gives high school students a first-hand look at how our government operates and how federal policy is made in our nation's capital. While working on the House floor, the pages gain hands-on experience with the legislative process,” Rep. Levin said. “I congratulate Ashley on her appointment.” Congressional pages have served the House of Representatives for nearly 200 years, serving a variety of roles as they assist Members and work off the House floor during the legislative session. Ashley Tomasello is a junior at South Lake High School in St. Clair Shores, Michigan, where she is an active member of the Varsity Tennis Team, National Honor Society Student Congress, Environmental/Envirohon Club, Treasurer of the Junior Class, and a LINK Leader for freshmen. Ashley also volunteers as a tutor at her home elementary school, Avalon. “In my 11 years of teaching, few students possess and display the motivated, intelligence and community activism as Ashley. She is an intelligent, responsible young woman who has been a model student at South Lake,” said Beth Welles, Social Studies Teacher at South Lake High School. (####)
05.20.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI) and John Dingell (D-MI) this week joined with the entire Michigan Democratic House delegation in seeking sustained funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to ensure continued investments in the region and the success of the two-year-old restoration program. The effort was spearheaded by Reps. Levin, Dingell and Louise Slaughter of New York. In a letter to Reps. Michael K. Simpson and James Moran, the top lawmakers on the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, Rep. Levin and 18 other House members requested $375 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2012 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill, a $75 million increase from this year. “There is no higher environmental goal than the protection and restoration of the Great Lakes, and no state has a bigger stake in this effort than Michigan does,” said Rep. Levin. “It is essential that Congress continue to support the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. This needs to be a priority.” “Our Nation depends on the Great Lakes and we need to restore and protect this precious resource, the largest source of fresh water on the planet,” said Rep. Dingell. “It is my belief that we do not inherit the Earth from previous generations, but we borrow it from future ones. By putting our money where our mouth is to economically and environmentally invest in the long-term viability of the Great Lakes, we are helping to protect this resource for future generations.” The Great Lakes are an important national treasure. As the largest freshwater resource on Earth, the Great Lakes provide drinking water and shape the way of life for over 40 million people. Yet despite their size and importance, the Great Lakes suffer from a legacy of toxic pollution, the spread of invasive species, non-point source pollution, and the loss of habitat. These factors, among others, continue to place stress on the health and vitality of the Great Lakes. With the creation of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative two years ago, the Lakes are receiving much needed support. The GLRI addresses numerous threats to the Great Lakes and strives to achieve the long-term goals of protecting beaches and offshore waters for swimming, boating and fishing; assuring safe drinking water, and providing a healthy ecosystem for fish and wildlife. Work is beginning on over 300 projects that will measurably restore the Great Lakes and address the most urgent problems facing them. Michigan received a total of $97.2 million in GLRI funding last year – more than any other state – that went to 160 Michigan GLRI projects. Among the projects in southeast Michigan: Friends of the Detroit River: $1.2 million for a project to restore shoreline, wetlands and fish habitat in the Detroit River. Ducks Unlimited: $974,037 to control invasive Phragmites in northern Lake St. Clair. Macomb County Health Department: $250,000 for a project using dye tests to identify and address illicit sewer connections and failing septic systems. Southeast Michigan Council of Governments (SEMCOG): $500,000 for a Restoring the Lake Erie Corridor Through Green Streets program to reduce stormwater runoff, sediment, and nutrient loading. Wayne State University: $519,564 to develop technology to help assess the effectiveness and durability of shipboard ballast water treatment systems. The GLRI also provided $38 million last year to combat the Asian Carp. A PDF copy of the letter, signed by all six Democrats in the Michigan House delegation, can be found here: Dear Chairman Simpson and Ranking Member Moran: We are writing to urge you to provide $375 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2012 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. The GLRI is the largest investment in the Great Lakes in two decades and provides critical funding to programs that clean up contaminated sediments, improve water quality, combat invasive species, protect watersheds from polluted run-off and restore wetlands and other valuable habitats in the Great Lakes. The eight Great Lakes states, local governments and their partners are actively engaged and are devoting scarce resources to implementing the GLRI. Sustained funding in FY 2012 will encourage continued investments and help ensure the success of this important restoration program. The Great Lakes are a truly unique part of the American landscape. They are the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth and hold 90 percent of our nation’s supply of fresh surface water. The lakes also boast over 10,000 miles of beautiful coastlines and contain the largest freshwater dues in the world. Restoring the Great Lakes advances our regional strategy to create jobs, stimulate economic development and invest in freshwater resources and waterfront communities. The Great Lakes provide invaluable recreational opportunities and support shipping, fishing, boating and tourism industries that generate 1.5 million jobs and $62 billion in wages. A Brookings Institution study found that the Great Lakes region will gain at least $2 in economic benefits for every $1 invested in addressing ecological and environmental problems confronting the lakes. The GLRI is supporting implementation of a comprehensive, bipartisan restoration strategy that is broadly endorsed by the Great Lakes states, cities, tribes, conservation groups, and business and industry. It is guided by sound science and a detailed Action Plan with clear performance measures and accountability standards. A majority of funding is being directed to states, cities and nongovernmental groups that are best equipped to address local restoration priorities. We urge you to support this wise investment in the economic and environmental health of the eight-state Great Lakes region. (####)
05.19.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Democratic Ways and Means Committee Members today joined with 147 other House colleagues in a letter to President Obama calling for a five-year reauthorization of the expanded Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which expired in February. The letter, signed by all 15 Ways and Means Democrats, was spearheaded by Committee Members Jim McDermott (D-WA), John Lewis (D-GA) and Xavier Becerra (D-CA), in addition to Reps. Mike Michaud (D-ME) and Adam Smith (D-WA). A copy of the letter, signed by 162 members overall, can be found here and is printed below: May 19, 2011 The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our strong support for the immediate enactment of a five year reauthorization of the 2009 Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) reforms. The Trade Expansion Act of 1962 created the Trade Adjustment Assistance program to assist workers laid off as a result of international trade by helping them retrain and acquire skills needed to compete in the global environment. In 2009, Congress enacted the Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act of 2009, making significant improvements to the TAA for Workers program as well as the other TAA programs – Firms, Farmers, and Communities. The 2009 reforms had the full support of the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee. Underscoring the bipartisanship, bicameral support for the 2009 reforms, Congressman Camp, who was then the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Ways and Means stated, “[t]his important package provides a coherent, rational, accountable, and cost-effective system for training trade-affected workers and putting them back to work quickly and at better jobs”. Similarly, Senator Grassley, the Ranking Member on the Senate Finance Committee stated, “today's achievement…is the culmination of years of effort, and I am confident that the result will serve to benefit American workers in Iowa and across the United States for years to come”. The 2009 TAA reforms dramatically improved the TAA for Workers program. Specifically, the legislation made service sector workers eligible for the program, expanded access for manufacturing workers, significantly increased training funding and promoted on-the-job, part-time and longer-term training. Critically, it also increased the TAA for Workers Health Coverage Tax Credit subsidy to 80 percent and made several important changes to the existing credit. These changes were designed to minimize gaps in coverage and assure access to insurance policies that meet the health and medical needs of eligible individuals and their families. The 2009 legislation also made important reforms to the TAA for Firms program and tripled its authorization, improved the TAA for Farmers program, and created the TAA for Communities program. Since the reforms were implemented in May 2009, more than 185,000 additional trade-impacted workers who may not have been certified under the “old” 2002 TAA for Workers program have become eligible for training opportunities and benefits. In total, more than 435,000 workers were certified as eligible for TAA support in that timeframe. In FY2010 alone, more than 227,000 workers took advantage of TAA and participated in the program, receiving case management, training and/or income support. The 2009 TAA reforms expired on February 12, 2011, and just last week, the Department of Labor denied the first three petitions filed by groups of workers seeking TAA assistance under pre-2009 TAA rules. The reason for the denial: they were service workers, and now that the 2009 reforms have lapsed, service workers are not eligible for TAA. Inevitably, the inability of these laid off workers to obtain TAA support and training, as well as the more limited benefits available to those workers whose TAA petitions are approved, will impede their efforts to obtain new jobs in growth sectors like health, information technology and precision manufacturing and contribute to the economic recovery. The denial of these service workers’ petitions for TAA assistance demonstrates the real consequences for working families associated with the failure to reauthorize TAA. The 2009 program should never have been allowed to lapse, and it is imperative that it is re-started immediately before additional workers are harmed. We therefore support the immediate passage of a five-year reauthorization of the 2009 TAA reforms and look forward to working with the Administration to accomplish this goal. (####)
05.18.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), at an event today at Ferndale High School, congratulated four students he nominated from the 12th Congressional District who were offered and have accepted appointments to United States Service Academies. He was joined by friends and families of the students as well as administrators, teachers and counselors from the high schools they attend. Once nominated, the students competed with other students nationwide for an appointment. Each year the Academies receive more than 10,000 applications and only admit about 1,200 students. “These talented students have very bright futures. I congratulate them on their appointments and wish them luck as they join a prestigious group of future leaders,” said Rep. Levin. The following students from the 12th Congressional District were offered appointments and have accepted: Ryan Gall of Clinton Township will be attending the United States Naval Academy. Mr. Gall will soon graduate from Chippewa Valley High School. Gregory Gutkin of Oak Park will be attending the United States Air Force Academy. Mr Gutkin will soon graduate from the International Academy in Bloomfield Hills. Daniel Hicks of Oak Park will be attending the United States Air Force Academy. Mr. Hicks will soon graduate from Ferndale High School. Patricia Pasque of Warren will be attending the United States Air Force Academy. Ms. Pasque will soon graduate from Cousino High School. Students interested in seeking a nomination from Rep. Levin, should contact his Service Academy Coordinator at his district office at (586) 498-7122 or (248) 968-2025. For further information, please visit: https://levin.house.gov/serving-you. (####)
05.16.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today commented on the passing of U.S. District Judge John Feikens, who died Sunday at 93: “Built on the foundation of the joint service on the federal bench of my uncle Theodore Levin and John Feikens, there were bonds of respect, trust and affection between the Feikens and Levin families that far outweighed any consideration of political affiliation. All of Michigan should join in commemorating Judge Feikens’ distinguished service and commitment to equal justice under the law.” (####)
05.12.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), together with nearly a third of the entire U.S. House membership, is battling an Army plan to halt production of the Abrams tank, a cornerstone of Michigan’s defense industrial base for 30 years. The program is run by General Dynamics Land Systems based in Sterling Heights. After 30 years of building, upgrading and improving the Abrams main battle tank, the Pentagon has proposed to halt tank production in 2013. The Army plans to restart tank production in 2017. Rep. Levin and Republican Rep. Mike Rogers of Alabama this week spearheaded a letter signed by 135 other members that cautions Army Secretary John McHugh that halting production “could end up costing more in the long run and result in lost capacity and readiness. They urged continuation of the program – at least on a limited basis – during the intervening period. “The cost of shutdown and restart of Abrams tank production appears to be more than the cost of continued limited production,” Rep. Levin and the other lawmakers wrote. “Instead of reconstituting this vital manufacturing capability at a higher cost, it would seem product to invest these select resources in continued Abrams production.” As an alternative to shutting down the tank upgrade program completely, the lawmakers suggest continuing limited production of M1A2 SEP tanks at 70 per year. “The tank industrial base is not a light switch that can just be switched on and off at will,” Rep. Levin said. “Everyone needs to understand that it will take time and money to get this capability back if we let it go.” The tank upgrade program has been a cornerstone of Michigan’s defense industrial base for 30 years. The program is run by General Dynamics Land Systems based in Sterling Heights. Over the last two years, a total of 224 Michigan suppliers and subcontractors were involved with the tank upgrade program and received a total of $187 million in Abrams work. "Allowing the Abrams production capability to decay will inhibit the Nation's ability to maintain the most modern fighting force in the world and to support the combat vehicle programs of our international allies," said Pete Keating of General Dynamics, adding that a halt in production will jeopardize tens of thousands of jobs that support the Army's future tank program and more than 560 businesses across the country. "There's no doubt to the reality of the impact it would have on our company and community. It's pretty significant," said Bruce Barron, President and CEO of Barron Industries in Oxford, Mich.. "We would have to lay off a significant amount of people with unique skills and once production shuts down you can't magically make it come back." Barron’s family-owned metal manufacturing company produces steel and castings for the Abrams tank program. The company has invested significantly in providing the type of capacity required to support Abrams upgrade programs. Congressional supporters of the tank upgrade program hope that their letter to Secretary McHugh also receives attention from their colleagues in the House of Representatives. Ultimately, Congress will make the decision on whether or not the tank refit program will be continued. The House is expected to take up the 2012 Defense Authorization legislation at the end of this month. Other Michigan Delegation members signing the letter were Reps. Dan Benishek, Dave Camp, Hansen Clarke, John Dingell, Bill Huizenga, Dale Kildee, Candice Miller, Thaddeus McCotter, Gary Peters, Mike Rogers (MI) and Tim Walberg. (####)
05.11.2011	Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement in advance of the Senate Finance Committee’s Thursday hearing on ending unjustified tax incentives for Big Oil: “House Republicans should follow the Senate’s lead in considering legislation to end unjustified tax subsidies for Big Oil. With consumers facing soaring gas prices, and Big Oil raking in huge profits, the people’s House should not be taking a back seat in repealing these giveaways. As my colleagues and I made clear last week: The Ways and Means Committee has a responsibility to ensure an equitable tax system and we urge our Republican colleagues to start by eliminating these unjustified tax breaks.” Just days after the Big Five reported a combined $32 billion in first quarter profits, all 15 Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee last week sent a letter to Chairman Camp last week urging an end to unjustified tax breaks for Big Oil and asking the chairman to schedule a markup in the near future to consider such a measure. A copy of the letter, signed by all 15 Ways and Means Committee Democrats, can be viewed here: Dear Chairman Camp: We are writing to urge you to schedule a mark up in the near future to consider legislation to repeal tax subsidies for large integrated oil companies. As you know, Speaker Boehner recently said that Big Oil is going to pay its “fair share in taxes.” The Big Five oil companies reported a combined profit of $32 billion in the first quarter of 2011 alone. Repealing the three largest tax breaks for the Big Five oil companies would raise billions of dollars a year. More than a billion dollars a year of that comes from one tax break enacted under the last Republican Majority. This tax break, the Sec. 199 domestic manufacturing deduction, should never have benefited the Big Five in the first place. At a time when our constituents are feeling the pain of rising gas prices, it is unjustifiable that our tax code subsidizes Big Oil to the tune of billions of dollars a year. The Committee has a responsibility to ensure that our tax system is equitable, and we urge you to start by eliminating unjustified subsidies for large integrated oil companies. Sincerely, A copy of the letter can be viewed here: https://democrats.waysandmeans.house.gov/sites/democrats.waysandmeans.house.gov/files/media/pdf/112/110502_SML_Oil_Letter_to_Camp.pdf (####)
05.09.2011	U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) welcomed today’s announcement that Michigan had been awarded a $196.5 million high-speed rail grant from the Department of Transportation to complete track enhancements on the 135-mile Dearborn-to-Kalamazoo corridor. The project is expected to create 1,000 jobs and reduce travel time from Detroit to Chicago by 30 minutes. Track and signal upgrades are expected to be completed by 2013. “This investment will provide a strong federal partnership in enhancing a significant rail corridor that will result in immediate ridership growth, job creation, and local economic development,” said Rep. Levin. “Upgrading our nation’s transportation infrastructure is a vital step in our effort to compete on a global scale and high-speed rail is a key ingredient in that effort.” For more information about Michigan’s awards, click here. (####)
05.06.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statements regarding the April jobs report released today: “Today’s report brings encouraging news that our economic recovery continues to take hold, with the strongest private-sector job growth in years during April,” said Committee Ranking Member Levin. “The manufacturing sector has played a significant role, adding 141,000 jobs so far this year. Yet far too many Americans continue to look for jobs that simply aren’t there, and Republicans showed this week that the only job they are eager to pursue is a hatchet job on the unemployment insurance program. The legislation they introduced Thursday to end this year’s guaranteed benefit for the long-term unemployed swipes money from those battling to makes ends meet during this recovery.” “The problem is not the unemployed—it’s unemployment, and today’s job numbers show that while some sectors have seen encouraging growth, it remains a problem,” said Subcommittee Ranking Member Doggett. “Despite being in the majority going on five months, Republicans have offered no ‘jobs’ bill. Instead, yesterday they launched a surprise assault on the jobless—falsely labeled a ‘JOBS’ Act—that creates no new jobs and instead, encourages states to terminate assistance to 4 million long-term unemployed Americans. Instead of focusing on ways to help folks find work, Republicans are taking from the unemployed to give to state governments that failed to manage their budgets or to prepare for recession.” (####)
05.06.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) issued the following joint statement after the Department of Labor denied requests for Trade Adjustment Assistance from three groups of workers – from Alabama, Ohio and Pennsylvania – due to the fact that they were service workers and no longer eligible for assistance. These were the first denials that resulted from the Feb. 12 expiration of the expanded TAA program. Because of the expiration, service workers are no longer eligible. “Today real workers have been harmed by Republicans’ refusal to extend 2009 TAA reforms, and thousands of others are being short-changed in their effort to transition to new work. Republicans in Congress let those reforms lapse and today, we are seeing the consequences of that irresponsible decision,” said Committee Ranking Member Levin and Subcommittee Ranking Member McDermott. “Republicans have thrown to the side bipartisan TAA reforms simply to get their way on pending trade agreements and there is absolutely no reason workers should be held hostage to these demands.” Background The Trade Expansion Act of 1962 created the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program to assist workers laid off as a result of international trade by helping them retrain and acquire skills needed to compete in the global environment. The Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act of 2009 (TGAAA), which was enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, made significant improvements to the TAA for Workers program. These 2009 reforms were supported on a bicameral, bipartisan basis. As Senator Grassley, the Ranking Member on the Senate Finance Committee, stated at the time, “…today's achievement is the result of the dedication, hard work and commitment of many individuals. It is the culmination of years of effort, and I am confident that the result will serve to benefit American workers in Iowa and across the United States for years to come.” Since the reforms were implemented in May 2009, more than 185,000 additional trade-impacted workers who may not have been certified under the “old” 2002 TAA for Workers program have become eligible for training opportunities and benefits. In total, more than 435,000 workers were certified as eligible for TAA support in that timeframe. In FY2010 alone, more than 227,000 workers took advantage of TAA and participated in the program, receiving case management, training and/or income support. In February, Republicans Majority leadership, which had scheduled legislation extending TAA, including the 2009 reforms, for a vote on the House floor, decided against doing so. And Republicans in the Senate blocked efforts to extend the TAA reforms as well. As a result, the 2009 reforms lapsed on February 12, 2010 leaving, in effect, only the “old” 2002 more restrictive TAA program. As a result: Services Workers Shut Out. The 2009 legislation closed a gaping hole in the TAA program and, for the first time, allowed service sector workers who lose their jobs due to trade or outsourcing to obtain TAA benefits. Going forward, service workers are NOT be TAA eligible, as demonstrated by today’s denial of three requests for TAA by groups of service workers. Many Manufacturing Workers who are Victims of Offshoring Cut Off. The 2009 legislation extended the TAA program to all manufacturing workers who lost their jobs when their factory shuts down and relocates overseas. (Prior law created an additional evidentiary hurdle when the factory was offshored to a non-FTA country.) This hurdle is back in effect and many victims of offshoring will be ineligible for TAA. Many “Secondary Workers” Excluded. When a major factory shuts down in a small community, the impact goes well beyond the employees of that factory, and reverberates to the other “upstream” and “downstream” businesses that provided goods and services to the factory. The 2009 legislation expanded “secondary workers” eligibility to ensure that when these workers lose their jobs, they can also retrain for a better job to provide for their families. The more restrictive pre-2009 secondary worker eligibility rules are back in place. Training Funding Significantly Cut. The 2009 legislation more than doubled the TAA training funding from $220 million to $575 million to ensure that workers have full opportunity to retrain for new, better jobs. As a result of the failure to extend these reforms, overall training funding will be reduced and TAA-eligible workers will have fewer training opportunities and in some States, training money could simply run out. Improved Training Opportunities Denied. The very heart of the TAA program is the opportunity to get trained for a better job so that workers can continue to provide for their families. The 2009 legislation included changes to ensure that workers can complete longer term training and more flexible training options that give them the best opportunity to transition into a new career, including an additional 26 weeks of training eligibility, part-time training, pre-layoff training and prerequisite training. These additional training opportunities have been eliminated. Cut to the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) at the Worst Possible Time. The 2009 legislation increased the HCTC credit from 65% to 80% – so that workers who have just lost their jobs can afford healthcare. Because of the failure to the 2009 TAA reforms, the credit has once again dropped to 65% and all TAA participants and their families face premium increases of hundreds of dollars a month. Effectively Denying Benefits By Undoing Fixes to Flaws in the Program. The 2009 legislation fixed short and contradictory enrollment deadlines that caused significant confusion among TAA participants and resulted in some workers losing access to TAA benefits. That red tape is in effect once again. Loosening Reporting Requirements, Diminishing Accountability. Prior to 2009, data on TAA participants’ activities was spotty at best. The 2009 reforms required the Secretary of Labor to collect a significant amount of data on all workers who apply for, or receive, TAA and to make that data available to the public. These requirements, which are no longer mandatory, promoted the ability of Congress to perform its oversight responsibilities and, if necessary, to refine and improve the TAA program performance. (####)
05.05.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statements today in response to Chairman Camp’s plan to overhaul the unemployment insurance program: “This is the opposite of a jobs bill – it is a hatchet job on the unemployment insurance program. With this legislation, Republicans are proposing to end this year’s guaranteed benefit for the long-term unemployed, just like they’ve proposed ending the guaranteed benefit for Medicare recipients,” said Committee Ranking Member Levin. “At stake are extended benefits for more than four million unemployed Americans. This legislation takes money out of the pockets of the long-term unemployed and throws it to states, many of which have mismanaged their trust funds. Their timing couldn’t be worse given today’s news that applications for jobless benefits jumped to the highest levels in eight months.” “This is a surprise assault on the jobless, which encourages the states to terminate assistance to 4 million long term unemployed Americans,” said Subcommittee Ranking Member Doggett. “It takes from the unemployed to give to state governments that failed to manage their budgets or to prepare for recession. Like the rest of the Republican legislative agenda, this mislabeled ‘JOBS’ Act creates no new jobs. It represents only the latest attempt by Republicans to blame the unemployed for unemployment on the very day that ongoing unemployment claims had their largest weekly increase since last July.” BACKGROUND Cutting Assistance to Those Who Need it Most Legislation introduced by Republicans on the Committee on Ways and Means would likely eliminate extended unemployment benefits in many States given a provision in the bill allowing States to spend those funds for other purposes. If every State took this option, over 4 million Americans could lose extended unemployment benefits. • The legislation would allocate the remaining balance now estimated to be spent on temporary, federally-funded extended benefits ($31 billion) to the States and allow them to use it for a number of purposes, including cutting unemployment insurance (UI) taxes on employers and paying off UI loans from the Federal government. Second, the legislation would permanently allow regular UI funds to be diverted for other purposes, potentially undermining the foundation of the unemployment system which ensures some wage replacement for workers who lose their jobs through no fault of their own. • The bill would allow States to seek waivers from the Department of Labor (DOL) to use unemployment funds to pay for something other than UI as long as it relates to employment. This waiver authority could allow a State (if approved by DOL) to provide wage insurance or private accounts to a potential UI recipient, instead of unemployment benefits. Alternatively, a State could use UI funds to pay wage subsidies to employers hiring UI recipients. Third, it would impose new training and work search requirements for UI recipients that States already have the flexibility to put in place even as Republican budget proposals slash funding for training and employment services. • The measure would impose new training and/or education requirements for UI recipients who are referred to employment-related services by the States. (####)
05.05.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin, Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark, Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. wrote to Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp and Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton requesting hearings on the Republican Budget’s impact on Medicare and Medicaid. The letter was sent in response to widespread concern about the plan across the Democratic Caucus. A copy of the letter appears below. A link to the letter can be found here. May 5, 2011 The Honorable David CampChairmanCommittee on Ways and Means1102 Longworth House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 The Honorable Fred UptonChairmanCommittee on Energy and Commerce2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen Camp and Upton: On April 15, 2011 Republican members of the House overwhelmingly voted in favor of Budget Chairman Paul Ryan’s FY 2012 Budget Resolution, which ends the Medicare program and replaces it with a voucher and ends the Medicaid guarantee of healthcare by turning the program into a block grant that permanently unravels the Federal-State partnership. As Chairmen of the Committees that have jurisdiction over Medicare and Medicaid, we are confident that you carefully analyzed the Republican Budget’s impact on these programs before joining your Republican colleagues to vote in favor of the plan. We request a hearing in the committees of jurisdiction to review this analysis and to provide for an opportunity to hear directly from those who would be affected. In casting our votes, Democrats concluded that a yea vote would have a devastating impact on the nation’s seniors, individuals living with disabilities, and low-income populations. In fact, not one Democratic Member voted in favor of the Republican budget. The Republican budget destroys the Medicare program for those under age 55 by ending Medicare’s historic guaranteed benefits and converting the program into an under-funded defined contribution voucher that beneficiaries would use to shop for insurance that would cost more and deliver less. Indeed, using history as a guide, insurers may opt not to participate or may use clever tactics to avoid the oldest and sickest people. This very model ignores the fact that Medicare was created in large measure because these populations had difficulty obtaining adequate, affordable private insurance. The Republican budget would also dramatically increase health care costs for seniors. For example, a typical 65-year-old retiring in 2022 would be expected to devote nearly half their monthly Social Security checks toward health care costs, more than double what they would spend under current Medicare law. In addition, despite Republican rhetoric that current Medicare beneficiaries would not be affected, the Congressional Budget Office’s analysis clearly states that the Republican budget would repeal the new Medicare drug coverage that closed the Medicare Part D donut hole. It also appears to assume elimination of the other benefit improvements from the Affordable Care Act (ACA), including provisions that eliminate cost-sharing for most preventive benefits. The provisions slashing Medicaid would have a detrimental impact on the nine million Medicare beneficiaries who rely on Medicaid to help with their hospital, doctor, and nursing home bills. By turning Medicare into a voucher program, the Republican budget also eliminates Medicare’s proven ability to serve as a leader in driving development and adoption of innovative delivery and payment system reforms that have improved efficiency, accountability and quality of care across payors. Medicare led the move away from cost-based reimbursement with Congress’s creation of the inpatient prospective payment system in 1983. That landmark change shifted reimbursement policy from one that created financial incentives for the provision of care without regard to cost toward one that rewards the efficient provision of care. As Medicare leads, private payers have followed, and Medicare, under Congressional direction, has continued to be at the forefront of developing prospective payment systems for a variety of health care providers. Likewise, Medicare’s role in driving improvement in the delivery of health care is evidenced by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act incentives that will push adoption and use of electronic health records by hospitals and physicians. Meaningful use of electronic health records will dramatically improve our ability to reduce medical errors, improve quality, save billions of dollars and combat waste, fraud and abuse. The ACA continues Medicare’s longstanding role as a leader in improving the delivery of health care. In fact, according to 272 economists, the ACA “contains essentially every cost-containment provision policy analysts have considered effective in reducing the rate of medical spending.” These provisions include testing of a variety of new payment systems that encourage better coordination of care, such as shared savings programs and bundled payments, and other incentives to improve quality, including provisions to reduce preventable hospital readmissions. In contrast, the Republican budget does nothing to improve the delivery of health care or reduce health spending for the Medicare population. In fact, just the opposite is true. Medicare has historically leveraged its considerable market presence and low administrative costs to drive lower prices while protecting access. Indeed, CBO has been clear in its analysis of the Republican budget that relying on more expensive private plans and eliminating Medicare’s ability to leverage its considerable market presence will actually increase total costs for people on Medicare, even if it lowers the government’s share by setting the voucher below inflation. Ironically, the Republican budget actually increases costs, but shifts all those new costs onto seniors and individuals with disabilities. The Republican budget is similarly devastating for the Medicaid program and the 60 million people it serves. The Republican budget cuts Medicaid by almost $800 billion over the next decade and in half by 2022, shifts these massive costs onto states, beneficiaries, and providers, and ends the Medicaid assurance of coverage beginning in 2013. The Republican budget restructures Medicaid into a block grant where states receive a capped amount of money for the program. Medicaid is currently structured to provide more help when states need it most, for example, when unemployment increases or there is a natural disaster where citizens lose insurance coverage. A block grant shifts all risks to the States, including risks of future recessions, healthcare cost increases, and disasters. The federal government would no longer be a partner responding to such changes. This is not a cost savings to the program, but a cost shift from the federal budget to states, Medicaid beneficiaries and providers. In the end, vulnerable recipients will lose care, and state budgets will suffer. In addition to block granting the program, the Republican budget cuts Medicaid by $771 billion over the next decade. The capped amount of money states receive would not account for innovation in healthcare, enrollment growth, and health needs. The result would be inevitable cutbacks for beneficiaries and providers. In addition, in 2022 the proposal eliminates spending for nine million low-income Medicare beneficiaries’ premiums, cost sharing, and acute care services not covered by Medicare. It replaces the coverage with an inadequate voucher payment referred to as a medical savings account. The effects of all these cuts would be devastating on low-income senior citizens, women, children and people with disabilities. Coverage for one million nursing home residents would be lost for many, and quality and staffing in nursing homes would suffer. Benefits allowing three million elderly and disabled individuals to remain independent and in their homes would be in danger. Benefits such as prescription drugs for patients with HIV/AIDS and therapies such as behavioral health therapy for autistic children could be cut. The 30 million children depending on Medicaid for a healthy start in life would lose essential coverage. The Republican budget’s massive cost shift to states could exacerbate difficulties in paying adequate provider rates and attracting the participation of doctors, dentists, hospitals, nursing homes, and many others health providers. According to CBO, “given that payment rates for providers under Medicaid are already generally lower than they are under Medicare and private insurance, if states lowered payment rates even further, providers might be less willing to treat Medicaid enrollees.” Given the far-reaching changes to the Medicare and Medicaid programs included in the Republican budget, it is absolutely essential that the Committees of jurisdiction conduct hearings to assess the budget’s effects on these vital programs and the populations they serve. As Ranking Members of these Committees, we respectfully request that these hearings be conducted as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, The Honorable Sander M. LevinRanking MemberCommittee on Ways and Means The Honorable Henry A. WaxmanRanking MemberCommittee on Energy and Commerce The Honorable Pete StarkRanking MemberSubcommittee on HealthCommittee on Ways and Means The Honorable Frank Pallone, Jr.Ranking MemberSubcommittee on HealthCommittee on Energy and Commerce (####)
05.04.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Way and Means Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) today released the following joint statement regarding the Administration’s indication that it is ready to begin technical discussions on the draft implementing bill for the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement: “Democrats in the U.S. House have been working to change U.S. trade policy for over a decade. In the era of increasing globalization, trade policy must be a tool to shape the rules of competition and spread the benefits of globalization. “Democrats in the U.S. House succeeded in adding enforceable international labor standards in the text of the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement for the first time, landmark environmental provisions and increased access to generic medicines. We worked with Peru as it brought its labor law framework into compliance with international standards before Congress approved that FTA and we were pleased to support that fixed Agreement. “We made it clear to the Bush Administration that the long-standing problem of one-way trade with Korea – where 75 percent of our trade deficit with them was in autos – must be addressed. When they failed to remedy that closed market we stood in opposition to that flawed agreement. “We also made it clear that Panama and Colombia must act to bring their labor laws into compliance with international standards. That Panama must also address a long-standing tax haven problem and Colombia must address violence and impunity that has been so pervasive in their society. “Unfortunately, Republicans in Congress – wedded to an outdated notion that more trade was always better no matter the terms, conditions and consequences – were calling for the passage of all of the flawed FTAs and the Obama Administration inherited three flawed trade agreements. “The question raised by the U.S.-Korea FTA was would we stand up for U.S. businesses and workers and insist on two-way trade? With the changes gained last fall in eliminating non-tariff barriers and adjusting the tariff provisions, the answer is yes and we should approve this fixed FTA. “The question raised by the U.S.-Panama FTA was would they bring their labor laws into compliance with international standards and would a tax haven problem that had languished for eight years under the Bush Administration finally be addressed? The answer is yes and we should approve this fixed FTA. “The improvements to both the Korea and Panama FTAs would not have occurred without our insistence and reflect a long-overdue change to U.S. trade policy. They have been fixed to embody our view that trade must be a two-way street and that other countries should not manipulate market conditions to keep our products out while they use their sheltered market to gain an advantage in the U.S. market. They have been fixed to reflect our view that workers must have basic rights if they are going to improve their financial standing and climb the economic ladder. This is not only vital to individuals and their families, it is critical to reducing poverty and the development of a country’s middle class. When we are integrating the U.S. economy with that of a developing country, it is important to our businesses, which need consumers to buy their goods and services. And, it’s important to U.S. workers, who should not compete with workers whose rights are suppressed, or who are killed in the exercise of those rights. “The U.S. – Colombia FTA must meet this standard. “Colombia is a key ally in a region that is very important to the United States. President Santos has expressed a determination to address conditions affecting the role of workers and their basic rights. And, the U.S. and Colombia have agreed to an Action Plan: Leveling the Playing Field: Labor Protections and the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement that includes commitments to address serious issues regarding worker rights, violence and impunity as we have insisted on for years. “As Ambassador Kirk’s letter indicates, ‘Colombia still has important work to accomplish to address the objectives of the Action Plan.’ With important commitments yet to be realized, we must fully ensure that there is ‘Action’ in the Action Plan. “For instance, the cooperatives regulations – intended to address abuses which allow Colombian employers to avoid the direct hiring of workers and hinder their collective bargaining rights as noted by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and our own State Department – will not be issued until June 15. While Colombia has provided drafts of these regulations to the Administration, those drafts are not public. It is not clear how they address the significant loopholes which historically have taken away the basic rights of more than a million workers in Colombia. “Likewise, the commitments Colombia agreed to in the Action Plan to rein in abuse of collective pacts, which discourage workers’ participation in unions (and are another area routinely criticized by the ILO), do not go into effect until June 15 and need to be strengthened. “It is also not clear that Colombia has yet met the minimal commitments it made under the Action Plan to address broad prohibitions on the right to strike in so-called essential services, another area of Colombian labor laws frequently identified by the ILO as inconsistent with international norms. Under the Action Plan, Colombia agreed to create and disseminate guidance based on Colombian court decisions narrowing its prohibitions on the right to strike, so that workers have a clearer understanding of their rights in this area. We look forward to receiving this guidance and working to strengthen this area of the Action Plan. “The question raised by the U.S.-Colombia FTA is will workers be able to exercise their basic internationally-recognized rights and be free from the threat of violence? That question has not been answered yet and we intend to continue aggressively focusing on strengthening and implementing the Action Plan.” (####)
05.02.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today made the following statement regarding the news that Osama bin Laden was killed during a U.S. operation in Pakistan: “Today we remember the victims of 9-11 and hope that the death of Osama bin Laden provides some comfort to their families and to our nation. We stand in unity and respect for the laser-like, dogged determination of the President, the intelligence community and the U.S. military in bringing about justice after 10 long years.” (####)
04.29.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), in a ceremony today at Lincoln Middle School, announced the winners of the Women’s History Essay Competition. There were 276 entries spanning seven grade levels (6th through 12th) from 11 schools. The seven winning essays – representing five different schools – are featured on Rep. Levin’s congressional Web site. Each winner received an autographed “Women in Congress” book. This is the third year that Rep. Levin has held the competition in honor of Women’s History Month. Students were asked to submit essays between 250 and 500 words identifying a woman who inspired them. Essays were judged by a group of seven active members of the community. The winning entries included essays about Oprah Winfrey, Shirley Temple, Susan B. Anthony, Jane Austen, Alexandra Thidavanh Bounxouei, Maya Angelou and the mother of one student. “I wish to congratulate all 276 students on a terrific compilation of essays,” said Rep. Levin. “Students throughout the district demonstrated remarkable talent in writing about everyone from important historical figures to their own mothers. Thank you for making this a hugely successful competition.” Below are the winning entries for each grade: 6th Grade Name: Cheyenne Cook School: Lincoln MS Teacher: Ms. Mary Peterson Essay topic: Oprah Gail Winfrey 7th Grade Name: Cassie Bethea School: Lincoln MS Teacher: Ms. McSherry Essay topic: Shirley Temple 8th Grade Name: Shantel Hudson School: Lincoln MS Teacher: Ms. McSherry Essay topic: Susan B. Anthony 9th Grade Name: Lindsay Gauthier School: Chippewa Valley HS Teacher: Mrs. Stacy LaPlante Essay topic: Jane Austen 10th Grade Name: Kenny Phenglava School: Warren Mott HS Teacher: Ms. Julie Stanaway Essay topic: Alexandra Thidavanh Bounxouei 11th Grade Name: Marisa Mills School: Oak Park HS Teacher: Ms. Katherine Locano Essay topic: Maya Angelou 12th Grade Name: Bianca Russell School: Southfield Lathrup HS Teacher: Mrs. Williams Essay topic: Mother, Jocelynne Russell (####)
04.26.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today congratulated Macomb Community College on its selection as one of 120 community colleges to compete for the $1 million Aspen Institute Prize for Community College Excellence. “I congratulate Macomb Community College on this important selection and wish it the best of luck as it competes for this distinguished prize,” said Rep. Levin. “Macomb Community College is a shining example nationwide of the vital role that community colleges play in both enriching students’ lives and preparing them to thrive in the workplace.” The 120 community colleges were chosen, according to the Aspen Institute, based on having demonstrated strong outcomes in three areas of student success: • Student success in persistence and completion,• Consistent improvement in outcomes over time, and• Equity in outcomes for students of all racial/ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds. Macomb Community College was one of five Michigan schools selected to compete for the prize. • Kellogg Community College in Battle Creek, MI• Macomb Community College in Warren, MI• Mott Community College in Flint, MI• Gogebic Community College in Ironwood, MI• Delta College in University Center, MI (####)
04.18.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) issued the following statements today in response to the announcement that Panama has ratified a Tax Information Exchange Agreement with the United States: “The Panama FTA as negotiated by the Bush Administration did not require meeting the basic international worker standards,” said Ranking Member Levin. “Despite our active efforts in discussions with the previous Panamanian Government to fully meet these standards – as spelled out in the May 10 agreement – they did not do so and also did not take necessary steps regarding Panama’s status as a tax haven. The Obama Administration has now worked with the new Panamanian Administration to take the necessary steps before asking action by Congress. That is the proper approach for every free trade agreement, including with outstanding issues with the Colombia FTA. Now the Administration should expeditiously and separately submit each of the Korean and Panamanian FTAs for consideration and action by Congress. And Colombia must bring its laws fully into compliance with international labor standards and address longstanding practices and problems with violence and impunity.” “Panama needed to bring its labor laws up to international standards before the trade agreement could be submitted to Congress,” said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member McDermott. “Panama has now done so – and Congress should now consider the agreement. Colombia has not done so. I encourage Colombia to bring its law and practices up to international standards so that Congress can move forward with consideration of the agreement.” (####)
04.15.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), in a statement last night on the House floor, criticized Republicans’ 2012 budget proposal, which ends Medicare while cutting taxes for the very wealthiest: “We do not need to tear up what America has done in the past in order to build for the future. We should not confront present and future problems, including the nation's deficit, as we must, by repealing America's past. “The Republican budget tries to tear up and repeal 75 years of American experience and the supreme example is Medicare. It tears it up. It repeals it. And contrary to what we have heard today, they would not save Medicare, but end it. They would not change it, but they would end it. Our nation would be a different nation without it. Millions today would be less healthy without Medicare. “One of my constituents wrote to me recently to say Medicare saved her life and her life savings when she was diagnosed with breast cancer. And there are tens of thousands of people like her in this country. “And what the Republicans want to do is to give seniors a voucher for health care -- an underfunded voucher for 10 years. It would double health care costs for seniors. A voucher that in 20 years would pay only a third of senior health care costs. There's no place to hide for anyone who votes for the Republican budget. “And what happens with the savings? Tax cuts for the wealthy. The average income of the bottom 90 percent of the families in America has fallen in the last decade. The opposite is true for the wealthy. “The top 1 percent have seen their incomes climb by more than a quarter of a million dollars.“If what we have built in our nation needs to be adjusted, fix it, don't destroy it. We must address the deficit without deepening deficits and availability for our senior citizens of jobs, health care and education. “The choice today could not be more decisive. A vote against the Republican budget is a vote for basic American values. Vote no. I yield back.” Rep. Levin’s floor statement can be viewed here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2qZnGa0FuDE (####)
04.13.2011	(Washington D.C.)- The announcement for this hearing stated that, “Congress and the President need to work together to achieve a tax system that is fair, simple, and efficient… While some seem to prefer a ‘business-only’ approach to tax reform, we owe it to the hard-working taxpayers we represent to ensure that they are not left out of this discussion.” I very much agree. The kind of tax reform proposed in the Republican budget would reduce taxes for the very highest earners, and increase the burden on working families. These reductions for the highest earners come on top of the nearly $700 billion in additional tax cuts the Republican budget assumes for taxpayers with income above $250,000, almost 80% of which go to people making more than $1 million. As we consider complexity in the individual tax system, we need to be sensitive to the reasons provisions were enacted in the first place. Our goal should be to strengthen provisions that help working families send their kids to college, save for retirement, or make ends meet. The Republican budget indicates that the individual and corporate rates will be reduced from 35% to 25% but leaves it up to the Ways and Means Committee to fill in the details. To do so in a deficit-neutral manner, some estimates are that we would have to eliminate more than $2.9 trillion worth of tax expenditures over the next decade. The Child Credit, Earned Income Tax Credit, American Opportunity Tax Credit, and retirement savings accounts are primarily middle and lower income provisions. The need for simplification cannot be used as rationale for irrational inequity or for undoing progress that helped foster the middle class. I look forward to continuing this conversation and hearing today’s testimony. (####)
04.13.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement this afternoon after President Obama’s speech on deficit reduction: “President Obama today made clear that he will stand firmly in the path of Republican efforts to dismantle Medicare, ram through cuts to Social Security and break the fundamental social contract in America. The president laid out an effective framework for deficit reduction that directly contrasts with the Republican approach, which aims to cut taxes for the very wealthy and dramatically increase health care costs for seniors. “Republicans, as the president noted, have seized on their new majority in the House by seeking to roll back the clock on commitments that have been in place for generations. At every step, we will fight to safeguard the very programs that have helped build America’s middle class.” (####)
04.08.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today is urging Republican House Speaker John Boehner not to shut down the government, but to come to an agreement before tonight’s midnight deadline. In a letter he is co-signing with other House Democrats to the Republican leader, Rep. Levin notes the adverse economic impact that would result from a shutdown, which would come just as families are recovering from the deep recession. The letter: Dear Speaker Boehner: Congress’s number one priority should be to create jobs and grow the economy; a government shutdown would adversely affect both of these goals. Your party gained the House majority promising to listen to the American people more closely. While the American people have made clear they expect us to cut spending, they also do not want a government shutdown that would hurt the economy, nor do they want the government to shut down over divisive social issues that have little if anything to do with our deficit. Democrats agree we must address the deficit, and that is why in negotiations we have met Republican proposals for spending cuts more than halfway. We believe that we should be able to come to a final agreement for the year before federal government funding ends at midnight tonight. However, if that is not possible, Congress should pass a continuing resolution free of divisive social policy to keep the government open for the American people. If no agreement has been reached by the end of today, we will work with you to pass a bill that could become law, in the interest of our economy and of all of the American people. As you have said, “the House works best when it is allowed to work its will.” We ask you to live up to those words and bring such a bill to the floor for a vote today. (####)
04.07.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) has submitted the following statement into the Congressional Record on H.R. 910, which would amend the Clean Air Act to prevent EPA from regulating greenhouse gases in any effort to address climate change. Rep. Levin today voted against the bill, which passed the House with unanimous Republican support. “Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the legislation before the House, which would weaken the Clean Air Act and the ability of the Environmental Protection Agency to protect public health and the environment from carbon pollution. “The scientific community has been telling us for years, with growing urgency, that greenhouse gas emissions are contributing to changes in the climate and that the impact of these changes will be overwhelmingly negative going forward. There is a lot of room for a constructive debate on what the U.S. response should be to the buildup of heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere. Our response cannot be to simply deny the existence of the problem. “But that is exactly what the bill before the House does. This legislation rejects the scientific consensus that climate change is occurring and overturns EPA’s scientific finding that carbon pollution endangers public health and the environment. In a word, this bill would take a fundamentally anti-science dogma and enshrine it into public law. It is the legislative equivalent of sticking our heads in the sand. “We’ve heard a lot of overheated rhetoric by the proponents of this bill that protecting the American people from carbon pollution amounts to some kind of job-killing tax increase that will make gasoline and electricity cost more. In fact, the rules EPA is developing seek to curb carbon pollution by the very largest emitters in this country over a period of many years. We’re talking about facilities that emit more than 75,000 tons of carbon into the air each year. In most cases, the new rules will simply require these facilities to make energy efficiency improvements. As we’ve seen in so many other areas, investments in energy efficiency often pay for themselves and actually create jobs. “H.R. 910 is opposed by scientists, public health groups, environmentalists, sporting organizations like Trout Unlimited, as well as the UAW and the Blue/Green Alliance. This legislation should be rejected.” (####)
04.06.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) delivered the following statement this morning at the Joint Committee on Taxation Roundtable: “House Republicans put out their budget yesterday, and it highlights I think one of the major differences between now and 1986: the deep differences of opinion that exist between the two parties in Congress. We must address the deficit. We must not do so as a way to turn back the clock on more than half a century of progress that helped foster the American middle class. The Republican budget calls for unprecedented cuts that would lead to the unraveling of Medicare and Social Security. On tax policy, it embraces more tax cuts for the wealthiest and a higher burden for everyone else. “If there is to be any chance of undertaking fundamental tax reform we will have to find a way to bridge those basic differences in the Ways & Means and Finance Committees to arrive at a bi-partisan set of principles. In 1986 those principles were: simplicity, efficiency and fairness. “It is instructive to compare our situation today to the one we faced in 1986. After the 1981 tax cuts, many felt that we had gone too far, just as many of us feel today that the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts went too far. But in the years between 1981 and 1986, Congress enacted three separate deficit-reduction revenue measures so that we were on a far more sustainable fiscal path. Today, there is broad agreement on the need to address our deficits, but very little common ground on how to most responsibly achieve that goal. “Another major difference between 1986 and today is the dramatically increased income inequality in our country. In 1986, the average income of the bottom 90% of households was $31,282 dollars. In 2008, the most recent year for which we have data, the bottom 90% averaged $31,244. In other words, the vast majority of Americans have seen essentially no gains since 1986, and are actually worse off in real terms. The top 1% on the other hand saw an average gain of almost $400,000; the top tenth of one percent saw an average gain of more than $2 million. “As I said before, one of the principles of the 1986 Act was fairness. A great deal of work went into ensuring that one segment of our society was not funding a tax cut for another segment. But when you look at the budget proposal that came out yesterday, that is exactly what some are proposing. By assuming that the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts are all made permanent, it locks in a policy skewed to the very highest earners. Nearly 80% of the benefit of extending the upper-income tax cuts last year went to the wealthiest one-fifth of one percent of taxpayers – those with income over $1 million. “Mr. Camp and Mr. Ryan have also set a goal of a top individual tax rate of 25%. What is not laid out is what it would take to reach that goal, or its consequences. It almost certainly would be necessary to eliminate major provisions that helped build the broad middle class of this country such as the mortgage interest deduction and the employer provided health care exclusion. Or one could eliminate vital provisions that help the working poor like the child credit and the EITC. Even if one eliminated the lower, preferential rates for capital gains and dividends, a 25% top individual rate would still require choices that would increase the tax burden on working families and reduce the progressivity of our tax system. “In other words, the tax reform goals must not mean a tax cut for the wealthiest and a tax increase for working families whose incomes have been essentially stagnant in the years since the last tax reform. “We need tax reform that directly encourages economic growth and job creation here in the United States, helps working families, and does not add to our deficit. I look forward to hearing our guests’ perspective on how we can get there.” (####)
04.06.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement today regarding the U.S.-Colombia FTA: “The Administration has achieved in its discussions with the Colombia government a number of important commitments to address serious issues regarding worker rights, violence and impunity, but more work needs to be done. “Some of that work needs to be undertaken in Colombia through concrete changes in laws and practices on the agreed upon reforms and actions and within the stated timelines. “Additional work needs to be done on specific provisions. One key example is the need to more clearly spell out how regulations will be changed by June 15 to end the widespread use of so-called cooperatives - instead of direct hiring – that have taken away the basic rights of hundreds of thousands of workers in a vast number of fields. Another need is to be certain that the way the issue of essential services is addressed will truly remedy the defects cited in the State Department and International Labor Organization (ILO) reports. “The Administration has importantly included timelines and acknowledged that concrete action is required to remedy these long-standing concerns. “This active process allows us to provide oversight, to understand the changes as they are made, evaluate progress and short-comings and to highlight their importance to real workers’ rights in Colombia. “In my meeting with President Santos in Colombia a few months ago, he expressed his commitment and willingness to address these long-standing outstanding issues and to vigorous implementation of that commitment. “The U.S. – Colombia relationship is an important one in many respects – strategically and economically. It is also important for both nations that trade agreements be shaped to spread the benefits of expanded trade more widely -- important for nations as they build and strengthen a middle class and for our nation to continue efforts to sustain a strong middle class.” (####)
04.05.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA) are criticizing the House Republican Budget that would destroy Medicare and replace it with a voucher program. Ranking Member Levin: “The Republicans are being dishonest about what they’re up to with this reckless budget. They are aiming to destroy Medicare for future generations – not save it. Future seniors would be given a voucher and then told they’re on their own. Republicans’ message to Americans is clear: Forget how much you’ve paid into a Medicare system that ensures you can get the medical care you deserve during retirement. Under this Republican plan, if you develop a major medical problem and your voucher runs out, so be it.” Ranking Member Stark: “Today, House Republicans reneged on their commitment to Medicare. They don't believe that senior citizens and people with disabilities have a right to guaranteed health benefits. Instead, they will turn the health of seniors and people with disabilities over to private insurers. Say goodbye to secure health care when you need it most. That's what this budget means to anyone in America who hopes to grow old." Additional background information below: HOUSE GOP BUDGET: A PATH TO POVERTYDestroys Medicare as We Know ItApril 5, 2011 Destroys Medicare and Converts Program to a Voucher. The Republican budget destroys Medicare for everyone under age 55, instead providing individuals with an under-funded voucher to purchase coverage in a new undefined marketplace where there is no guarantee that insurance companies will even participate. • Voucher is under-funded. Despite the dramatic strides made in the Affordable Care Act to strengthen Medicare’s financial footing and slow its spending growth, the Republican budget waxes on about the need for further cuts to Medicare. While details on the voucher plan are scarce, the only way to achieve additional savings is to deliberately set the voucher below expected costs. And individuals who are healthy or earn higher incomes (e.g., above $85,000) receive a far smaller voucher, perhaps up to 70 percent lower. • No guarantee that insurers will want to serve this population. The vouchers can be used to shop for private insurance plans in a new - but undefined – Medicare “marketplace” or “exchange.” In general, insurance plans historically have always wanted to be paid more than Medicare’s costs to serve this sick and vulnerable population. Under the House Republican budget insurers would be paid far less and will offer fewer benefits than Medicare or restrict access to care. Even more alarming, insurers could continue to charge much higher premiums based on age, gender and health status, or fail to offer insurance altogether. It is important to remember that Medicare was created because private insurers had stopped serving these populations. The Ryan proposal ignores the past. • No guarantee that plans will take all beneficiaries. Despite platitudes about structuring the market so that plans are required to take all applicants, we know too well from experience with Medicare Advantage and Part D that there are many creative ways plans can avoid sicker, higher-cost beneficiaries. The Ryan plan does not protect against – and may well inadvertently encourage -- this more insidious discrimination. • Ends Medicare’s entitlement of guaranteed benefits. Even if seniors can find an insurer to cover them at a price they can afford, the plan is not required to cover a set benefit package, as Medicare currently does. The whole goal of moving to a voucher is to fundamentally change Medicare by converting it from a defined benefit program to a defined contribution program. Divorcing the voucher from a benefit package all but guarantees it won’t have the same purchasing power. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s independent analysis of the Ryan-Rivlin voucher plan, upon which Ryan’s Medicare budget proposal is based, “voucher recipients would probably have to purchase less extensive coverage or pay higher premiums…” • Promotes rationing by private insurance companies. With declining dollars and an expensive population, private insurers that do choose to participate will have every incentive and motive to deny care. While Republicans accuse the government of rationing, nothing could be further from the truth. With transparency laws and accountability of federal agencies and lawmakers, policy decisions that have adverse effects are public and may be taken up for debate and changed. This is not the case for private insurance companies and their black box “decision making” when it comes to approving or disapproving treatments. They are accountable to shareholders and executives, not their patients. • Sends the existing Medicare program into a “death spiral”. Although Ryan claims that people age 55 and above would be able to remain or enroll in Medicare as we know it today, that may be a hollow promise. By restricting the current program to an ever-aging and more costly population, it will go into a so-called “death spiral” (an insurance term that describes a dwindling pool of increasingly expensive enrollees), which will raise both government spending and beneficiary premiums for this group. It appears that the Republican budget may shield beneficiaries from the increases resulting from segmenting the older and sick into one pool, but is not clear how that is done. And the fact remains that doing so will further increase government spending beyond the increase already resulting from the “death spiral.” • Fails to control overall health spending. Turning Medicare into a voucher isn’t reform; it doesn’t change the level of need or reform how care is delivered. While it might slow government spending, it will result in a massive cost shift to individuals and families and is thus unlikely to materially slow overall expenditures. Conversely, if it is shown to slow overall expenditures, it will be because people fail to get needed or timely care and, in extreme cases, may die earlier than otherwise expected. • Increases waste, fraud and abuse. By eliminating the underlying Medicare program and its efforts to combat waste, fraud and abuse, the Ryan budget will turn billions of dollars over to private insurers with virtually no accountability. Efforts to track and eliminate waste, fraud and abuse will become exponentially more difficult when hidden behind the veil of corporate secrets. To the extent the plans themselves ferret it out, there will be no return to taxpayers. • Ends Medicare’s role as a leader in quality and payment innovations. Medicare will no longer play the role of driving delivery reforms that reward efficient, high-quality care. A voucher plan also ends Medicare’s incentives for health information technology. • Ends Medicare payments to teaching hospitals and rural providers. The Republican budget will end Medicare payments for graduate medical education and that help cover the cost of the uninsured, as well as the numerous extra payments that go to rural providers and to promote primary care. Imposes automatic Medicare cuts. The House Republican budget creates two new triggers to impose automatic across-the-board cuts to Medicare, which are arbitrary and will further shrink the voucher for new beneficiaries. Repeals coverage expansions in health reform but embraces Medicare savings. After scaring senior citizens during the last election by running against Medicare provisions of the Affordable Care Act, Republicans now appear to be doing an about face by formally embracing the ACA’s Medicare savings and dramatically increasing cuts in the out-years. (It is unclear whether they are retaining or repealing the ACA’s benefit improvements for Medicare beneficiaries; however, even if they have retained them, they will disappear for those who receive only the new voucher.) Furthermore, because the Republican budget repeals the tax credits to help individuals and families purchase health insurance under the Affordable Care Act, hospitals and other providers will be stuck with Medicare payment reductions that were premised on increased payments resulting from the increased coverage under the ACA. (####)
04.01.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) made the following statement this morning following news that the economy added 216,000 jobs in March and the unemployment rate fell to 8.8 percent: “Today’s report is encouraging news for American workers and illustrates that the policies put in place by President Obama and Democrats in Congress during the last two years are leading toward a continued economic recovery. Republicans, in contrast, have not taken any steps to help economic growth. Instead they are pursuing reckless cuts aimed at the middle class, threatening to once again derail our economy. More still needs to be done to continue our recovery and it would help if Republicans would spend some time working on proposals to accelerate job growth rather than trying to chop down programs that have done so much to help middle class American families.” (####)
03.30.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement, as prepared for delivery, at a full Committee hearing on impediments to job creation. “This is a hearing on Impediments to Job Creation. A major impediment to job creation is the failure of the majority in the House to take any specific steps for job creation. In this Committee, they have not marked up a single jobs bill. And when we on the Democratic side introduce a jobs bill like the continuation of the very successful Build America Bonds, there is nothing but stony silence. Keep in mind that when President Obama took office he faced millions of jobs lost and a $1.5 trillion dollar deficit. In the last year, 1.5 million private sector jobs have been created and an economic recovery is slowly taking hold because of the efforts of this Administration and then Democratic Majority. Clearly we must take steps to address the deficit. But this must not be used as a maneuver to tear apart the fabric of programs that are important for American families. That is exactly what happens when a Party is gripped by extremism. This extremism is reflected in H.R. 1, which undermines important education programs like grants and Headstart that represent vital investments in our future growth; law enforcement funding like the COPS program that puts police on our streets; and environmental programs such as the Clean Water Revolving Fund, which ensures we have safe drinking water, and creates jobs. Attacks on these programs are consistent with, and indeed encouraged by, Republican witness testimony presented today that with the blanket statement: ‘The disease is government spending.’ And by the approach of another witness who said years ago the following in support of privatization of Social Security: ‘In that way, Social Security reform featuring Personal Retirement Accounts doesn’t send just one liberal sacred cow to the slaughterhouse. It sends the whole herd. The greatest long-term effect of reforming Social Security through personal retirement accounts will not be on individuals' retirement savings. It will be on the way they view their relationship to the government, to the economy and to each other.’ If one wanted to talk about a slaughterhouse and Impediments to Jobs Creation, Reserve Chairman Bernanke has predicted that the House Republicans' plan would lose and I quote, ‘a couple of hundred thousand jobs.’ Being very uncomfortable, Republicans have suddenly decided they had better try to frame their efforts by pinning to them the words jobs. Playing games with words won't work; it is not a substitute for real action. If we want to talk about jobs and American families, real action would include bringing Trade Adjustment Assistance up for a vote on the floor. Now having lapsed, the 2009 program allowed almost 200,000 workers without a job to undertaken retraining as they try to find a job. This legislation was passed by this Committee, but it has shamefully been set aside by House Republicans guided by the rigid ideology that is so rampant within the Houses Republican Conference. We need to take real action to help put Americans back to work. We welcome this debate and look forward to the testimony today.” (####)
03.28.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today criticized Gov. Rick Snyder’s signing of a bill that will permanently cut Michigan unemployment insurance from 26 weeks to 20 weeks, giving Michigan the dubious distinction of being the ONLY state in the country that provides fewer than 26 weeks of UI benefits. Snyder, in a news release this morning announcing that he signed HB 4408, failed to even mention the reckless change in the legislation. Instead, he focused on the technical change that could have easily been made without Republicans having to make a permanent cut to unemployment insurance. “Gov. Snyder’s decision to sign this reckless measure cutting the lifeline for Michigan’s unemployed will reverberate for years in Michigan. In signing this bill, the governor has tried to distract Michiganders from the full story, seeking to portray legislation that includes a drastic and permanent cut as a ‘protection’ for the unemployed. Republicans hijacked a simple technical change to extend 100 percent federally funded benefits this year and gave Michigan the dubious distinction of becoming the only state in the union with 20 weeks of state unemployment insurance. This would affect hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Michiganders in the future.” (####)
03.28.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Michigan’s Democratic U.S. Congressional delegation, in a joint letter to Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder on Monday, urged him to veto HB 4408, legislation that would cut state unemployment insurance in Michigan from 26 weeks to 20 weeks and turn back the clock on 50 years of needed protections for the unemployed. The legislation passed the State House and Senate Wednesday and would leave Michigan as the only state in the country that provides its workers fewer than 26 weeks of UI benefits. It could hardly come at a worse time, with Michigan’s unemployment still above 10 percent. The letter was signed by the entire Democratic delegation, including U.S. Sens. Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow and U.S. Reps. Hansen Clarke, John Conyers, John Dingell, Dale Kildee, Sander Levin and Gary Peters. The full copy of the letter is below: March 28, 2011 Dear Governor Snyder: We the undersigned members of the Michigan Congressional delegation are writing to urge you to veto HB 4408, which would permanently cut state unemployment benefits for Michigan’s unemployed workers from 26 weeks to 20 weeks and turn back the clock on 50 years of needed protections for the unemployed in Michigan. This permanent change to Michigan’s law was a completely unnecessary addition to legislation to temporarily change the look-back provision from 2 years to 3 years so that State law conforms to Federal law for the remainder of this year. Under the legislation passed by the State House and State Senate March 23, Michigan would be the only state to have 20 weeks of State unemployment insurance and the first state to reduce benefits during a period of high unemployment. These are two distinctions we do not want for our State. While both the Federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits program run though the end of the year, there is absolutely no guarantee they will be extended when the State cuts kick in next January. For the first time in 50 years unemployed workers will have only 20 weeks of unemployment benefits while they seek new jobs. Even if the Federal program is extended in some form, the State cut would result in a double benefit cut. Federal unemployment programs (Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits) are based on a percentage of the underlying state benefits. As a result, if the current 2011 program is extended into 2012 under the same conditions, federal benefits would be reduced by an additional 16 weeks in Michigan. This would mean that workers would be facing a total loss of 22 weeks of benefits. To put this in perspective: In 2010, over 171,000 individuals drew more than 20 weeks of regular UI benefits, with 130,000 of these drawing 26 weeks. The unemployment insurance program is a vital lifeline to workers and their families. The average weekly benefit is only $297 and allows families to put food on the table and stay in their homes. As we all know, this has been an unprecedented economic recession in our State. The recession, the financial collapse and the bankruptcy of GM and Chrysler have made recovery from the deep job loss very difficult for our State. Even as we begin to turn the corner, we know that families are struggling to stay afloat, especially those thrown out of work through no fault of their own. We appreciate and hold a deep concern about our long-term federal deficit and Michigan’s unemployment debt to the federal government. We can and must take steps to reduce the deficit, fix the state insolvency problem. At the same time, we must further stimulate job creation, support individuals and families climbing out of this deep recession -- which has been particularly devastating in Michigan -- and invest in our future. We encourage you to veto HB 4408 and call on the State legislature to send you legislation that simply makes the required technical correction that can easily be done by April 1, 2011. (####)
03.23.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today criticized a measure passed by Republicans in the State Senate that would turn back the clock on decades of needed protections for the unemployed in Michigan and reduce state unemployment insurance from 26 weeks to 20 weeks beginning next year. This comes as families in the state are recovering from the worst recession since the Great Depression. “Gov. Snyder should intervene to prevent this reckless piece of legislation by whatever means, including a veto if necessary. Instead of adopting a simple technical change to allow 37,000 unemployed workers in the State to continue to receive 20 weeks of 100 percent federally funded extended unemployment benefits, Republicans are hijacking the effort to undercut basic protections for hundreds of thousands unemployed workers in Michigan. I have worked with colleagues in Congress to assure a strong federal unemployment compensation program. This measure would make Michigan the only state in the union that provides fewer than 26 weeks of unemployment insurance.” By adopting this change, the state Legislature would also cut the future amount of Federal unemployment benefits that dislocated workers are eligible for in Michigan – adding insult to injury for unemployed workers. BACKGROUND • Under the State Senate measure, State benefits will be reduced starting on January 12, 2012 from 26 weeks to 20 weeks. This would make Michigan the first state in the Union to reduce benefits even while unemployment is at a record high of 10.7 percent, higher than the national rate of UI of 8.9%.• Federal unemployment programs (Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits) are based on a percentage of the underlying state benefits. As a result, if the current 2011 program is extended into 2012 under the same conditions, federal benefits would be reduced by an additional 16 weeks in Michigan.• Over 171,000 individuals drew more than 20 weeks of regular UI benefits in 2010, with 130,000 of these drawing 26 weeks. If the Senate bill was now law, all of these individuals would have received only 20 weeks of benefits.(####)
03.17.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), in a letter to State Legislative leaders, urged action so that tens of thousands of Michiganders don’t lose an additional 20 weeks of 100% federally funded unemployment benefits. Unless the Legislature makes a minor technical change to State Law by April 1, Michigan will be the only state in the country whose workers won’t benefit from the 20 extra weeks of 100% federally funded extended unemployment benefits. These benefits come on top of the 26 weeks of regular unemployment insurance and 53 weeks of Emergency Unemployment Compensation that workers throughout the country are receiving as they recover from the Great Recession. The following letter was sent yesterday: Dear Speaker Bolger, Minority Leader Hammel, Senator Majority Leader Richardville and Senate Minority Leader Whitmer: I am writing to clarify some facts around the need to make a temporary change to Michigan’s law to ensure that unemployed workers do not lose their eligibility for the Federal Extended Benefits (EB) unemployment program on April 2, 2011. As you know, the permanent law Extended Benefits program which is typically paid through a 50-50 federal-state split when triggered by a State’s unemployment situation, has been 100 % federally financed since 2009. Since that time, Michigan has changed its unemployment law to qualify for these federal funds and no state business taxes are collected to pay for these benefits. P.L. 111-312, which I sponsored in the House of Representatives, made a technical correction so workers in states where economic recovery was just starting to take hold would not be dropped from the program. However, this temporary technical fix, an extension of the look-back period from 2 to 3 years, must be matched by a change in state law. This change in state law is necessary to conform to the federal law, and it will be temporary, as is the change in federal law. Other states in this same position, Minnesota, Ohio, Maine, Washington, and Delaware have already taken action. If the State Legislature fails to act, 35,000 unemployed workers in Michigan would immediately be cut from the unemployment program and lose 20 weeks of critical support from the federal unemployment insurance program while they look for work. An additional 150,000 Michigan workers, who might become eligible this year, could also lose their eligibility if this law is not changed. The State would be denying Michigan residents 20 weeks of federal unemployment benefits that residents of all other states are able to utilize. The failure of Michigan to act to enable unemployed workers in our State to access these 100% federally-funded benefits, will have absolutely no bearing on future decisions about the Federal unemployment trust funds. Indeed, an extension of the argument being made by some would be for Michigan to turn away all federal funding until the federal deficit is eliminated. Finally, any consideration of other permanent changes to state law (ie, making workers wait a week to begin state UI) are about the first 26 weeks of State unemployment benefits and have no relation to the change required by April 1, 2011 in the look-back provision. As we all know, this has been an unprecedented economic recession in our State. The recession, the financial collapse and the bankruptcy of GM and Chrysler have made recovery from the deep job loss very difficult for our State. Even as we begin to turn the corner, we know that families are struggling to stay afloat, especially those thrown out of work through no fault of their own. The unemployment insurance program is a vital lifeline to workers and their families. The average weekly benefit is only $297 and allows families to put food on the table and stay in their homes. The program is also vital to our State’s economy as the money is used immediately - providing a positive economic ripple effect in our communities. It is estimated that for every $1 in unemployment insurance benefits there is a $2 boost to the local economy. I appreciate and hold a deep concern about our long-term federal deficit. We can and must takes steps to reduce the deficit while at the same time we further stimulate job creation, support individuals and families climbing out of the recession, and invest in our future. I encourage you to act so unemployed workers in Michigan can continue to access 20 additional weeks of unemployment benefits – benefits that are not paid for by the State and do not require an increase in State business taxes. I stand ready to answer any questions you may have about this issue. (####)
03.16.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today 125 members of the House Democratic Caucus sent a letter to Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) urging him to restore reasonable funding levels to the Social Security Administration (SSA) in the House Republican 2011 budget to avoid shutting down the agency for the equivalent of a month this year. The letter was spearheaded by Reps. Sander M. Levin (D-MI), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee, Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies. Ranking Member Levin: “The Republican proposal to recklessly slash funding to the Social Security Administration jeopardizes its ability to get vital benefits into the hands of seniors and people with disabilities and provide assistance to the public. It is time for Republicans to abandon this irresponsible plan.” Ranking Member Becerra: “The facts are the facts. The Republican job-destroying spending bill will shut down Social Security offices for up to a month this year. That was the warning the Social Security Administration recently communicated to Congress. And if local Social Security offices are closed for business, nearly 700,000 new retirees, widows, disabled workers and children will be put in a backlog as phones go unanswered and claims go unprocessed. Today we say to Speaker Boehner, restore funding in your budget for the Social Security Administration and cease-and-desist from this plan that would shut it down.” Ranking Member DeLauro: “Social Security ties generations together, providing economic security to millions of American seniors who otherwise might not be able to afford their daily expenses. And yet, it will be one of the first casualties of the Republican’s spending bill. The $1.7 billion drop in funding to the Social Security Administration could cause a shutdown of four weeks, leaving current beneficiaries without help should they need it, new retirees without benefits, our current workforce without the knowledge that their wages are being accounted for, and even newborn children without Social Security numbers. Americans of all ages depend on Social Security, and we must stand up to defend it against these reckless Republican cuts.” In a letter to employees last month, SSA cautioned that it may have to furlough workers if cuts to its budget are enacted into law. In their Continuing Resolution, Republicans have proposed cutting SSA’s administrative funding by more than 9 percent in 2011, from $11.8 billion in 2010 to $10.7 billion this year. In addition, the Republican proposal provides for $1.7 billion less than SSA needs to keep pace with inflation and rising workloads. Click here to read the letter to Speaker Boehner. (####)
03.15.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (M-12) made the following statement after opposing the short-term spending bill on the House floor today: “Republicans are pursuing an irresponsible and reckless approach to governing that appears to have no end. I opposed this measure because we cannot continue to resolve government funding through short-term extensions. Republicans have made clear that it is their way or no way on bringing down the deficit -- and they’ve taken no action to help create jobs. Instead, their intent is gutting key domestic priorities regardless of their value, as illustrated by their proposed cuts to education.” (####)
03.10.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Democrats today introduced legislation that is vital in helping to finance infrastructure investments, grow our economy and create jobs. H.R. 992, the Building American Jobs Act of 2011, extends eight bond, tax credit and loan guarantee programs for states and municipalities, anchored by the wildly successful Build America Bonds program, which helped finance $181 billion in infrastructure projects in the last two years. “These proven programs are vital in our effort to rebuild America’s infrastructure – and economy,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “There are still far too many states and municipalities – in addition to the 14 million unemployed Americans -- struggling to regain their footing after the Great Recession and this legislation gives them the tools to make long-needed investments.” The Building American Jobs Act of 2011 includes: • Build America Bonds – Extend the program through 2012, with a 32 percent subsidy rate in 2011, and 31 percent subsidy rate in 2012. BABs spur job creation and unleash private-sector investments by helping state and local governments finance infrastructure projects – building schools, hospitals, transit systems, and water systems. A state-by-state guide to Build America Bonds financing in 2009 and 2010.• Recovery Zone Bonds – Make an additional allocation of Recovery Zone bonds to ensure that each local municipality receives a minimum allocation equal to at least its share of national unemployment in December 2009. The bill would also extend the authorization for issuing Recovery Zone bonds through 2011.• Water & Sewer Bonds – Exempt water and sewer projects from private activity bond cap. The bill would exclude bonds financing facilities that furnish water and sewage facilities from state volume caps. The bill would also exclude bonds financing facilities that furnish water and sewage facilities from certain limitations on tribal government issuances.• AMT/Private Activity Bonds – Extend both provisions for one year (i.e., exempt from AMT tax-exempt private activity bonds issued in 2011 and current refunding of private activity bonds issued after 2003 and refunded during 2011).• New Markets Tax Credit –Allow NMTC to be claimed against the AMT with respect to qualified investments made between March 15, 2010 and January 1, 2012.• Federal Home Loan Bank Bond Guarantees – Extends ability of FHLBs to guarantee tax-exempt bonds through 2011.• Small Issuer Exception for Bank-Qualified Bonds – Extends the ability of financial institutions to purchase tax-exempt bonds of up to $30 million per issuer (from $10 million) through 2011. • Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) Exchange Program – Extends the ability of states to receive a portion of their LIHTC allocation as a direct payment through 2011. The following organizations have sent a letter to Ways and Means Democrats in support of the legislation: American Association of Airport ExecutivesAmerican Hospital AssociationAmerican Public Power AssociationBond Dealers of AmericaCouncil of Development Finance AgenciesCouncil of Federal Home Loan BanksCouncil of Infrastructure Financing AuthoritiesGovernment Finance Officers AssociationInternational Municipal Lawyers AssociationNational Association of Bond LawyersNational Association of Clean Water AgenciesNational Association of CountiesNational Association for County Community and Economic DevelopmentNational Association of Health and Educational Facilities Finance AuthoritiesNational Association of Local Housing Finance AgenciesNational Association of School BoardsNational Association of Towns and TownshipsNational Community Development AssociationNational League of CitiesNational Association of State Auditors, Comptrollers and TreasurersSecurities Industry and Financial Markets AssociationUnited States Conference of Mayors (####)
03.09.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (M-12) today issued the following statement following news of the passing of journalist David Broder: “I was very saddened to learn of David Broder’s passing. I knew him for 40 years. And while our paths didn’t cross directly at the University of Chicago, David Broder carried into his illustrious journalistic career lessons learned as a young college student. He knew to be skeptical of extremism and of the easy answer. It led him to provide invaluable insight by meeting voters where they live – outside of Washington – and getting to know citizens in every corner of America.” (####)
03.04.2011	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Labor today issued its monthly employment report finding that in the month of February, the economy created 192,000 jobs, with an increase of 222,000 private sector jobs and a drop to a 8.9 percent unemployment rate. Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), and Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statements: Ranking Member Levin: “These are encouraging signs for our economy. But families are still struggling with deep unemployment as job creation is too slow. Two months after taking control of the House, Republicans have yet to offer a single piece of legislation focused on creating jobs. Instead, they have proposed a budget that will recklessly cost jobs -- from schools to police departments -- and has hundreds of economists now warning against.” Ranking Member Doggett: “Today’s job numbers are a good step forward—but our goal in the weeks ahead must be preventing our economy from sliding back. The problem we face today is not the unemployed—it is unemployment. And after two years of repeatedly asking Democrats ‘Where are the jobs,’ Republicans have failed to produce a comprehensive job-creation agenda. Instead, they have prioritized helping insurance monopolies, criticizing the UN, encouraging more special interest financing of Presidential elections, and just about anything else imaginable except jobs. The Republican prescription has been nothing more than a placebo—and for Americans still looking for work, it has been quite a bitter pill.” Since assuming the majority in January, Republicans have proposed no job creation measures. Instead, House Republicans have: • Proposed a budget estimated to cost the economy 700,000 jobs and reduce economic growth by up to 2 percent. • Opposed extension of the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, preventing 227,000 trade-affected workers from receiving assistance. • Proposed $2 billion in cuts to vital job training programs. (####)
03.03.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (M-12) is inviting middle and high school students throughout the 12th Congressional District to participate in a special essay competition in celebration of Women’s History Month. This is the third year of the competition. Students are invited to submit essays between 250 and 500 words by March 28 through Congressman Levin’s congressional Web site (levin.house.gov). Students are asked to submit an essay identifying a woman that inspires them. They are welcome to write on a historical figure, a contemporary figure or someone in their own families. Certificates of special congressional recognition will be awarded to all participants who submit an essay. A panel of judges, active members of the 12th Congressional District community, will select one essay from each grade level to be featured on Congressman Levin’s congressional Web site. Each winner will also receive an autographed “Women in Congress” book.To spread the word to your students you can print a copy of the Women's History Month 12th Congressional District Middle School Essay Competition Flyer. A Brief History of Women's History Month The public celebration of women’s history in the United States began in 1978 as “Women’s History Week” in California. In 1981, Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) co-sponsored a joint Congressional resolution announcing a national Women’s History Week. Six years later, in 1987, Congress voted to expand the celebration to a full month, dedicating the month of March as Women’s History Month. Visit the Women in Congress web page to learn more. (####)
03.03.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), in a speech on the House floor Thursday, criticized Republicans’ proposal to increase taxes on middle-income families to pay for the repeal of the 1099 provision. KEY POINTS: “If this bill would become law, it would mean a tax increase for hundreds of thousands of middle-income taxpayers. … What this bill would do would be to saddle middle-income taxpayers in future years, pure and simple.” “Let me be clear by reading the language that's in the bill. And I quote, ‘If the advance payments to a taxpayer exceed the credit allowed by this section, the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year shall be increased.’ In clear, simple English. So let no one stand up here and say, it's not a tax increase when it is.” Rep. Levin’s full statement: “Let's be clear what the issue is today. The issue is not repeal of this provision of 1099. We on this side not only favor repeal but all of us who were here last session voted for it. We voted to repeal it. It failed because only two people on the then-minority side voted for the bill. They didn't like the pay-for. Mr. Camp mentions the NFIB. They supported our effort last year to repeal 1099. So again, the issue is not repeal, we have made that clear in the past. The effort to repeal was blocked on the Republican side last session. The reason they did not vote yes, they said, was because they did not like the pay-for. The pay-for closed tax loopholes. Closed tax loopholes. And they stood up and said, no, we can't vote for the bill because of that. Ironically, most of the loopholes closed in that effort have now become law. So that effort last year to block repeal essentially was to block the loophole effort that has now become the law of this land. So that should be clear, the issue is not repeal. The issue is how you pay for the repeal. The Senate has now voted to repeal 1099. Apparently, the now-majority does not like the pay-for in the Senate bill. So what does this bill provide? Well, in very simple terms, in clear terms, in unmistakable terms, the pay-for is an increase on middle-income families. It increases how much they will have to pay to the IRS if their income increases over what was projected when they would have obtained health insurance. Let me be very clear. The people were playing by the rules once the law became effective. It wasn't that they were ineligible. They were eligible. Period. So no one should say they were not eligible, that somehow they misled, that somehow they misrepresented. Now these are middle-income families who would have become eligible playing by the rules. So this is a tax increase if this bill becomes effective -- on middle-income families in future years. And mostly it will be on families with incomes between $88,000 and $110,000. These are estimates. It can well be that a small increase in income beyond what was anticipated can lead to an increase by as much as $12,000. That's the amount that could be required in a check from the taxpayer to the IRS. They project the average increase will be about $3,000. Well, it's been said in our committee and before the Rules Committee yesterday that it's not a tax increase. So let me be clear by reading the language that's in the bill. And I quote, ‘If the advance payments to a taxpayer exceed the credit allowed by this section, the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year shall be increased.’ In clear, simple English. So let no one stand up here and say, it's not a tax increase when it is. Let me also, if I might, read from the Statement of Administration Policy that was issued yesterday. And I quote. ‘Specifically, HR 4 would result in tax increases on certain middle class families that incur unexpected tax liabilities, in many cases totaling thousands of dollars, notwithstanding that they followed the rules.’ I want to read it again. ‘Specifically, HR 4,’ and I quote, ‘would result in tax increases on certain middle class families that incur unexpected tax liabilities, in many cases totaling thousands of dollars, notwithstanding that they followed the rules.’ Now [Republicans] said yesterday at the Rules Committee that this is not a tax increase because it would become effective at a later date, in 2014, when the subsidies under the health reform bill become effective. If you use that logic, we could next year increase taxes for everybody by, say 5 percent, and that would not be a tax increase because it would be for a later year. In a word, if this bill would become law, it would mean a tax increase for hundreds of thousands of middle-income taxpayers. Also, according to Joint Tax, it would have this effect. That about 266,000 people would not be covered with health insurance because of the provisions in this bill. So in a few words, what this bill would do would be to saddle middle-income taxpayers in future years, pure and simple. What we should do is to go back and find a responsible way to pay for the repeal of 1099, and I close by the following paragraph from the Statement of Administration Policy. And I quote again. ‘The administration looks forward to continuing to work with the Congress on the repeal of the information reporting requirements in the course of the legislative process, including finding an acceptable offset for the cost of the repeal.’ What this bill would do would be to provide an unacceptable offset, one that would burden hundreds of thousands of middle-income taxpayers in our country. We should not do that, period.” (####)
03.02.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provided an update on implementation of the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program in health reform. As of the end of 2010, more than 5,000 employers have received more than $535 million in health benefit reimbursements. Large employers that received 58 percent of the funds dispersed in 2010 reported using the program to continue retiree health coverage for more than 4.5 million Americans. Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA), responded to this news. Ranking Member Levin: “For years, economic pressures have threatened coverage for early retirees. Today’s news proves that the Affordable Care Act is helping early retirees keep the health coverage they earned through decades of hard work and helping employers keep their word to their employees.” Ranking Member Stark: "Early retirees who have not yet hit Medicare eligibility are at high risk of having their coverage dropped. Since 1988, the percent of large employers offering retiree coverage has fallen from 66 percent to 29 percent in 2009. "When they were in charge, Republicans did nothing to help retirees who were having their coverage dropped. Health reform has already helped millions who depend on retiree health coverage, and through the health insurance exchanges coverage will be secure and affordable for millions more." For more information on today's announcement, including an updated list of employers who have been accepted into this program, please visit: https://www.healthcare.gov/law/provisions/retirement (####)
03.01.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) today responded to continued Republican efforts to hold the South Korea FTA hostage to other trade matters: Ranking Member Levin: “The Administration has released a broad and strong trade policy agenda. It is Republicans who are holding up action on the trade agenda. “The Administration’s implementation language for the South Korea FTA is nearly complete and it should be sent to the Congress promptly. It will become law. The continuing effort by Republicans to hold up action on the South Korea FTA or tie it to any other trade matter hurts our ability to expand trade in ways beneficial to American companies and workers. “Republicans should also move forward on the Andean Trade Preference Act, the Generalized System of Preferences and the Trade Adjustment Assistance program – all important parts of the trade agenda. They are ready for action and it is reprehensible for Republicans to hold them – and tens of thousands of American workers as a result – hostage to other agreements.” “The Administration has set a course to resolve – as it did with the Korea FTA – major outstanding issues relating to the Colombia FTA. Republicans should join in these efforts instead of attempting to hold hostage action on other important trade agreements while work continues on the Colombia and Panama agreements.” Ranking Member McDermott: “The Administration’s Agenda recognizes the need to get trade agreements done – and done right. As Ambassador Kirk has stated, serious issues still need to be resolved before the Colombia and Panama FTAs can move forward, but the Administration is committed to working to resolve those issues as soon as possible. It would be a mistake to postpone Congressional consideration of the Korea FTA while those issues are being resolved – especially when the Korea FTA is expected to increase US exports about 10 times as much as the Colombia and Panama agreements combined. The time has come to move forward with our trade agenda – by extending Trade Adjustment Assistance and our trade preference programs for developing countries, by submitting the Korea FTA for congressional consideration, and by working to resolve the outstanding issues with Panama and Colombia.” (####)
02.18.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), in a speech on the House floor Friday morning, criticized Republican efforts to defund health care reform through an amendment to the Continuing Resolution. Rep. Levin made the following statement on the floor late Friday morning: “If this amendment would become part of the CR, there will be no CR and that will be your responsibility. Your responsibility. This is an effort to repeal by paralysis, paralyzing the provisions that have gone into effect, pre-existing conditions for children being covered, children under 26 having the ability to get insurance. It would paralyze the efforts to begin implementing the 2014 benefits. Instead of searching for common ground, this amendment intensifies warfare. Instead of collaboration this amendment would mean chaos. The Republicans have become a wrecking crew led by Paul Ryan and wrecking Medicare. This amendment is a deeply dangerous prescription for Americans' health. This prescription needs to be rejected.” Video of the speech can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=amzPxXXb3G8 (####)
02.15.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) today called on the House Majority to bring up a combined extension of Trade Adjustment Assistance and the Andean Trade Preference Act before adjourning Thursday for an 11-day recess. “We cannot walk away from the tens of thousands of Americans who have seen their jobs get shipped abroad – but that’s precisely what Republicans will do if they adjourn this week without extending the 2009 Trade Adjustment Assistance reforms, which expired on Monday.” said Rep. Levin. “Unless Congress acts quickly to demonstrate its commitment to the unemployed, significantly fewer displaced workers will be eligible for the Trade Adjustment Assistance, training funding will be dramatically cut from $575 million to $220 million a year, Trade Adjustment Assistance health care benefits will shrink and program participants will have fewer training options. All of these factors will make it harder for workers to get the support and training they need to get new, good paying jobs.” “This is a 50-year-old program that has been there to help American workers who have lost their jobs after companies have moved their operations overseas,” said. Rep. McDermott. “TAA is essential – it invests in American workers so they have the skills needed to get new jobs and compete in the global environment. Over 400,000 workers have been certified for retraining and other job benefits under TAA since May 2009. House Republicans need to get their act together and stop playing politics with the lives of unemployed Americans.” BACKGROUND The Trade Expansion Act of 1962 created the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program to assist workers laid off as a result of international trade by helping them retrain and acquire skills needed to compete in the global environment. The Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act of 2009 (TGAAA), which was enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, made significant improvements to the TAA for Workers program. These 2009 reforms were supported on a bicameral, bipartisan basis. As Senator Grassley, the Ranking Member on Senate Finance, stated at the time, “…today's achievement is the result of the dedication, hard work and commitment of many individuals. It is the culmination of years of effort, and I am confident that the result will serve to benefit American workers in Iowa and across the United States for years to come.” Since the reforms were implemented in May 2009, more than 170,000 additional trade-impacted workers who may not have been certified under the “old” TAA for Workers program became eligible for benefits and training opportunities. In total, more than 406,000 workers were certified as eligible for TAA support in that timeframe. In FY2010 alone, more than 227,000 workers took advantage of TAA and participated in the program, receiving case management, training and/or income support. In the face of opposition from the Republican Study Group and other conservative groups, the Republican leadership pulled from the floor this week legislation to extend TAA. As a result of this failure, the 2009 reforms have lapsed and the old, flawed TAA rules are in effect. As a result: Services Workers Shut Out. The 2009 legislation closed a gaping hole in the TAA program and, for the first time, allowed service sector workers who lose their jobs due to trade or outsourcing to obtain TAA benefits. Going forward, service workers are NOT be TAA eligible. Many Manufacturing Workers who are Victims of Offshoring Cut Off. The 2009 legislation extended the TAA program to all manufacturing workers who lost their jobs when their factory shuts down and relocates overseas. (Prior law created an additional evidentiary hurdle when the factory was offshored to a non-FTA country.) This hurdle is back in effect and many victims of offshoring will be left out in the cold. Many “Secondary Workers” Excluded. When a major factory shuts down in a small community, the impact goes well beyond the employees of that factory, and reverberates to the other “upstream” and “downstream” businesses that provided goods and services to the factory. The 2009 legislation expanded “secondary workers” eligibility to ensure that when these workers lose their jobs, they can also retrain for a better job to provide for their families. The pre-2009 secondary worker eligibility rules are back in place. Trade-Impacted Workers Will Lose Training Opportunities. The 2009 legislation more than doubled the TAA training funding from $220 million to $575 million and authorized longer-term training, part-time training and pre-layoff training to give workers the best opportunity to transition into a new career. Because of the failure to extend the 2009 reforms, all TAA-eligible workers will see fewer training opportunities and in some States, training money could simply run out. Cut to the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) at the Worst Possible Time. The 2009 legislation increased the HCTC from 65% to 80% to help so that workers who have just lost their jobs won’t also have to pay more for healthcare. Because of the failure to extend the program, the credit has once again dropped to 65% and all laid off workers and their families face premium increases of hundreds of dollars a month. Undoing Fixes to Program Flaws. The 2009 legislation fixed short and contradictory enrollment deadlines that caused significant confusion among TAA participants and resulted in some workers losing access to TAA benefits. These flawed rules are once again in force. (####)
02.15.2011	(Washington D.C.)- With the U.S. House today scheduled to begin debate on the Republican budget plan for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2011, U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) criticized the proposal. Levin issued the following statement: “President Obama’s budget lays out a responsible path toward meeting vital twin objectives – invest in our economy and reduce the deficit by $1.1 trillion over 10 years. The budget’s targeted infrastructure, education and technology investments are vital as we seek to out-innovate the rest of the world. The Republican 2011 blueprint, which the House begins debating today, reflects starkly different priorities. It will stifle investment and growth in the name of deficit reduction. The Republican plan would decimate programs vital to Michigan at a time when communities are still struggling to recover from the deep economic recession. It would take our economy backwards through extreme cuts that would be felt by families throughout our state. The GOP’s message to the Great Lakes states is ‘You’re on your own.’“ The GOP proposal: • Completely eliminates the COPS program that puts police officers on our streets to protect our communities. The program was funded at $298 million last year. • Takes a hatchet to the Community Development Block Grant program that is so important to local municipalities under severe economic strain. Republicans decrease it by two-thirds, to $1.5 billion. The program rehabilitates foreclosed properties, invests in improvements to community centers and parks and rebuilds residential streets, all creating jobs. In 2010, 12th District Communities received $11.9 million (including Macomb and Oakland Counties, Clinton Township, Roseville, Royal Oak, St. Clair Shores, Southfield, Sterling Heights and Warren). • Cuts more than a billion dollars from the Clean Water Revolving Program. This is important infrastructure work that creates jobs and provides low-interest loans and grants to localities for sewers and other water pollution control efforts. Much of the water infrastructure that has been built in Southeast Michigan over the last 20 years would have been unaffordable without this fund, like the Kuhn Drain in Oakland County and now the rebuilding of the Oakland-Macomb Interceptor and sewer improvements in Fraser, St. Clair Shore, Warren, and Center Line. These projects are all a source of needed jobs. • Reduces by more than half funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative – a far more drastic cut than in Obama’s 2012 proposal. This new program is a key immediate response to a clear and present danger to the Great Lakes. It targets invasive species, non-point pollution, and contaminated sediment in the Great Lakes. In 2010, the GLRI provided more than $37 million to help prevent the Asian carp from becoming established in the Great Lakes. • Slashes in half Pell Grant awards to low-and moderate income college students – a critical investment in the education of our youth. Students at area schools, including Lawrence Tech, depend on Pell Grants to help cover education costs. Currently, nearly 700 undergrads depend on these awards at Lawrence Tech alone, approximately a fifth of the undergraduate population. • Cuts Head Start programs by $1.1 billion in cuts (15%). According to the National Head Start Association, 63,500 families would be without quality early education programs if the President’s budget proposal is not enacted. (####)
02.11.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-Mich.), in a speech on the House floor late Thursday, criticized Republicans for allowing critical Trade Adjustment Assistance benefits to expire tomorrow. Republicans are poised to adjourn today without action on legislation to extend the program, leaving tens of thousands of working Americans ineligible for retraining and other assistance. The TAA program helps Americans who have lost their jobs due to increased imports. Rep. Levin made the following statement on the floor late Thursday evening: LINK TO SPEECH: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GoN7DHATrnA “This is about oversight, and what the Majority is doing is losing sight of the needs of tens of thousands of workers in this country. What they are doing is overlooking the needs of the workers of this country. Our committee has jurisdiction over trade adjustment and what's happened this week regarding Trade Adjustment Assistance is really incomprehensible and I think disgraceful. This Congress is going to leave town tomorrow. On Saturday the extension of TAA expires -- the 2009 extension. And what's going to happen: tens of thousands of people will be laid off because of trade will no longer be able to be certified. Tens of thousands. They will be out of luck when they hit bad luck through no fault of their own. We've received all kinds of communications from people in my state and I'm sure there are people like this in every single state. We heard from a machinist, laid off, qualified for TAA, who is now pursuing a career as a technician. He's in a program that goes on for a few years. Before TAA was overhauled in 2009, states could not have approved training of that length, nor have approved the prerequisite training. We heard of another worker, a service worker in the state of Michigan, laid off, qualified for TAA and is now pursuing an associate’s degree. She's planning to complete her program in June of 2012. Before the TAA reforms of 2009, service workers were not even eligible for TAA. We also know of another person who was laid off, a die helper, who is qualified for TAA to continue training on a part-time basis. It was only because of the extensions of 2009 -- the changes, the improvements -- that this person could have been in that training. Then another worker in Michigan, and there are workers throughout the country like this, who learned that she would be laid off, petitioned for TAA and began pursuing an MA degree before she actually lost her job. There are thousands of people who are going to be in this position and because the Majority in this House has failed to act, there are going to be tens of thousands of people who will have no place to turn in terms of training. Since the 2009 improvements, about 170,000 people have been able to receive training -- 170,000. And now, beginning Monday, tens of thousands will not be able to be certified for help. Now, this isn't only in the state of Michigan. It's not only in the state of Ohio. It's not only in the state of Indiana. It's not only in Pennsylvania. This is true throughout the country -- true throughout the country. And essentially the Majority here is leaving, turning their backs on the people of this country. So, what happened this week was the following. A few groups outside of this institution decided they did not want to support the 2009 expansion of benefits. And a group within this House, the Republican Study Committee, issues a document urging Republicans not to support the extension. There are many or some Republicans in this House who are ready to support it. But they pull back the bill. The document from the Study Committee has this as one of the reasons why we should not step up to the plate: They said, under TAA programs, the government picks winners and losers because TAA favorably discriminates towards workers who lost their jobs due to trade. Well, picking winners and losers, what TAA does is to fill in gaps that were not filled in previously and often gaps that were increased because of the inaction of the now Majority of this House. And talking about winners and losers, the losers are going to be the unemployed people of this country, unemployed through no fault of their own, unemployed looking for work who will not be able to be certified for TAA. This is a disgrace. And there are some people who will continue to be eligible for TAA who are going to have to now pay more for their health care if they can afford it. When we put this together a few years ago, this is what Senator Grassley said about the reforms, ‘Today's achievement is the result of the dedication, hard work and commitment of many individuals. It is the culmination of years of effort and I am confident that the result will serve to benefit American workers in Iowa and across the united states for years to come.’ The failure of the Republicans to bring this bill to the floor this week means that what Senator Grassley said will serve to benefit American workers in Iowa and across the United States for years to come. That's going to end on Saturday. On Saturday. On Monday, because Saturday it's a weekend, people who are laid off because of trade are going to hit a wall. A wall. So we are in favor of oversight. We made that clear earlier. We are also sure we should not be short-sighted about the needs of productive people who want to work and cannot find a job. The person speaking on behalf of the Republicans, my distinguished colleague on the Ways and Means Committee, talked about those who are out of work through no fault of their own. You mentioned nine million? There is a record number of people in this country who have been unemployed for a longer period of time than has been true in the past. And now all they ask for, unemployment comp in many cases, they're looking for work, and a chance to be retrained. A chance to be retrained. On Monday, for thousands, that chance will be gone. That should not have happened.” (####)
02.10.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-Mich.) today is introducing legislation in the U.S. House to hold China accountable for the manipulation of its currency. U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) is introducing companion legislation in the Senate. A bipartisan group of members from the House and Senate announced the introduction at a press conference today. The House legislation has 101 Republican and Democratic co-sponsors. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2011 seeks to level the playing field for American workers and businesses by giving the administration additional tools to address China’s fundamental undervaluation of its currency. A nearly identical bill passed the House last September with broad bipartisan support. (Background and details of legislation below). “China has been given free rein to manipulate its currency for far too long, with hundreds of thousands of American jobs lost and unsustainable global trade imbalances as a result,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Levin, D-Mich. “Those imbalances contributed to the global economic crisis, and most experts expect the imbalances will worsen in the coming years unless there is a significant change in the status quo. The measures included in this bill provide the Administration with additional tools for enforcing the rules of trade and are consistent with our WTO obligations. It will also bolster the Administration’s efforts to bring about a multilateral framework for addressing this global issue.” “China’s unfair currency manipulation has gone on for far too long. With factory doors continuing to close across my state, Ohio workers and small businesses can’t afford to wait any more,” said Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio. “The Chinese government has taken small steps to allow the yuan to appreciate, but it is not enough. Congress must take action immediately to address Chinese currency manipulation and pass legislation that will empower our government to combat this illegal trade subsidy. By combating currency manipulation, we can help level the playing field for American manufacturers and speed up our economic recovery.” “One significant contributing factor to the withering of our country’s once-unparalleled manufacturing base is the fact that China’s government deliberately suppresses the renminbi’s value, making Chinese imports artificially cheaper when competing against U.S. products,” said Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine. “I am pleased to introduce the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act to ensure the government is equipped to respond to this manipulation on behalf of our nation’s workers by imposing countervailing duties on subsidized exports from countries that continue to undervalue their currency at the expense of competing American businesses. I look forward to working with my colleagues to enact these vital provisions into law to prevent our trading partners from further undercutting true market competition and undermining American innovation.” “American manufacturing has the chance to not just repair our economy, not just lead us out of debt and deficit, but create hundreds of thousands of new, well-paying, high-quality jobs,” said Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Pa. “The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act gives the Administration the tools to fight back against countries that won’t live up to their obligations under international agreements. Because in matters of diplomacy, we can still speak softly, but it sure is nice to have in your back pocket a big stick.” “Today, I join my colleagues in reintroducing legislation that will provide tremendous relief to our manufacturers. China’s unfair trade policies have destroyed millions of good-paying American jobs, and jeopardized the future of the American middle-class. We can no longer expect these companies to compete against a country that flouts international trade laws,” said Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio. “It is the duty of this Congress to move forward with currency reform legislation and continue to fight on behalf of American jobs and our manufacturing industry.” “For too long the Chinese have not been playing fairly in the international trade arena – and this Congress has to send a clear message that China must become a responsible player in multi-lateral trade,” said Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott, D-Wash. “This bill is a crucial first step we must take towards leveling the playing field – it addresses the egregious imbalance between China’s currency and our own.” “For too long we’ve watched Democratic and Republican administrations talk tough about addressing currency manipulation but do little to nothing about it,” said Rep. Mike Michaud D-Maine, Chairman of the House Trade Working Group. “This bill will give us the tools to make China play by the rules. It will defend our manufacturing sector from China’s illegal trade practices, and it will put Americans back to work. I strongly urge House and Senate leaders to bring it to the floor immediately. Our economic recovery and growth depends on it.” “I proudly support the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2011. We must ensure the administration has the capacity to duly hold our trading partners responsible for currency manipulation,” said Rep. John Dingell D-Mich. “This bill will make it easier for the administration to go after countries that manipulate the value of their currencies and hold them accountable for this most unfair of trade practices. I wholeheartedly support efforts such as these to ensure our trading partners play by the rules and preserve domestic competitiveness.” The impact of China’s currency manipulation has been widely documented by economists: • Paul Krugman, winner of the 2008 Nobel Prize in Economics, estimates that China’s exchange rate policy reduces U.S. GDP by 1.4 to 1.5 percentage points annually and reduces U.S. employment by 1.4 or 1.5 million jobs.[1] • Fred Bergsten, Director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, estimates that a 20-40% appreciation of the RMB would result in $100-$150 billion improvement in the U.S. trade deficit and would generate 700,000 to 1 million jobs in the United States.[2] • Steven Dunaway, a former IMF official and senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, has noted that some analysts expect an appreciation would add half a percentage point to GDP in the United States and other developed countries.”[3] Background China suppresses the value of its currency (the RMB), making China’s exports cheaper than they would be if China allowed its currency to be set by the market. China’s currency policy places a drag on U.S. economic growth and job creation. As a general matter, under the U.S. countervailing duty law, remedial tariffs can be imposed on imports benefitting from foreign government subsidies for export, if it is shown that imports benefitting from such subsidies cause or threaten injury to a U.S. industry producing the same or similar products. To date, however, the Department of Commerce has declined to investigate foreign government currency practices as a countervailable subsidy. The most important element of the bill reverses a long-standing Commerce practice that is far more restrictive than required under U.S. law and WTO disciplines. Specifically, in the past, Commerce has resisted finding an export subsidy if the subsidy is not limited exclusively to circumstances of export (i.e., when non-exporters may benefit). The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act precludes Commerce from imposing this bright-line rule and, instead, requires Commerce to consider all the facts in making its determination of export contingency. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act also provides important guidance to Commerce in assessing whether a “benefit” exists in circumstances involving material currency undervaluation resulting from government intervention. Specifically, Commerce is directed to assess “benefit” in terms of the additional currency the exporter receives as a result of the undervaluation and to use widely-accepted IMF methods for determining the level of undervaluation. The bill includes minor technical changes to legislation introduced in the 111th Congress. --------------------------------------------- [1] See Paul Krugman, “Chinese New Year,” New York Times, January 1, 2010 (China “follows a mercantilist policy, keeping its trade surplus artificially high. And in today’s depressed world, that policy is, to put it bluntly, predatory.”); and Comments at Economic Policy Institute Forum, March 12, 2010.[2] C. Fred Bergsten, Comments at Economic Policy Institute Forum, March 12, 2010; C. Fred Bergsten, “How Best to Boost Exports,” Washington Post, February 3, 2010; A15 (The exchange rate “is the most important factor in determining U.S. export competitiveness.”). [3] Steven Dunaway, “China’s Exchange Rate Policy: The Heat Is On,” Council on Foreign Relations Expert Brief, February 18, 2010. (####)
02.10.2011	(Washington D.C.)- In response to a request from Representatives Sander Levin (D-MI), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), and Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Tom Harkin (D-IA), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced they will reverse a ruling that denies equipment used to help women breast feed from being covered as a health care expense. The previous ruling excluded breast pumps from coverage under flexible health spending accounts and made them non-deductible on tax returns. Levin, Maloney, Merkley, and Harkin wrote to IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman in November to call for the decision to be reversed. Senators Merkley and Harkin were joined by 9 other Senators; 32 other House members joined Reps. Levin and Maloney. In response to today’s decision, Reps. Levin and Maloney and Senators Merkley and Harkin released the following statement: “Today’s decision is a huge victory for nursing mothers everywhere. Modern medicine has documented numerous health benefits linked to breastfeeding, including a reduced risk of illness in infants and a reduced risk of cancer in mothers. And because breastfeeding is so effective in preventing disease, it also happens to save billions in health care costs. We thank the IRS for their careful consideration and quick response.” A PDF of the complete House members’ letter to Commissioner Shulman can be found here; the Senate version is here. (They are identical.) Additional Background A tax ruling by the IRS last year disallowed breast pumps and other breastfeeding supplies as medical deductions, thus also excluding them as permissible expenses under flexible health spending accounts. Rep. Maloney and Sen. Merkley secured a provision in health care reforms passed earlier this year that employers of hourly workers are be required to provide breastfeeding employees with “reasonable break time” and a private, non-bathroom place to express breast milk during the workday, up until the child’s first birthday. Breastfeeding is recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics and the World Health Organization for all children under six months. Twenty-four states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have laws related to breastfeeding in the workplace; fully 43 states and the District of Columbia and the Virgin Islands have laws which allow women to breastfeed in any public or private location. View the list and more at the National Conference of State Legislatures: https://www.ncsl.org/IssuesResearch/Health/BreastfeedingLaws/tabid/14389/Default.aspx (####)
02.09.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Next week tens of thousands of American workers will no longer have the Trade Adjustment Assistance program available to them and would be denied vital retraining benefits because of Republican infighting in the U.S. House. The nearly 50-year-old Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which helps workers who have lost their jobs through trade and globalization, is in danger of being dramatically cut if House Republicans don’t act before Saturday. Following Republican Study Committee opposition, and other objections from conservative groups, Republican leadership on Tuesday pulled legislation from the House Floor that would have extended the program past its Saturday expiration. The Andean Trade Preference Act is also set to expire Saturday without action this week on the House Floor. “The 2009 reforms were created on a broadly bi-partisan basis – House and Senate – to expand and improve the program and now is not the time for Republicans to walk away from the displaced workers it serves,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin. “Republicans should act now to extend this vital program at a time when so many working families are still struggling under the weight of the deep economic recession.” “If Republicans’ inability to move a simple extension of Trade Adjustment Assistance is a preview of the Majority’s jobs agenda, then it is clear America’s unemployed are out of luck,” said Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott. “In December the House passed – on a voice vote – an 18-month extension of TAA. It is inexplicable that the new Majority can’t do the same today.” Background on TAAThe Trade Expansion Act of 1962 created the TAA program to assist workers laid off as a result of international trade by helping them retrain and acquire skills needed to compete in the global environment. The Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act of 2009, which was enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, made significant improvements to the TAA for Workers program. These improvements were supported by the Chairs and Ranking Members of the Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee. Specifically, the legislation made service sector workers eligible for the program, expanded access for manufacturing workers, significantly increased training funding and promoted incumbent, part-time and longer-term training. Critically, it also increased the TAA for Workers Health Coverage Tax Credit subsidy to 80 percent and made several important changes to the existing credit. These changes are designed to minimize gaps in coverage and assure access to insurance policies that meet the health and medical needs of eligible individuals and their families. Additionally, the Trade and Globalization Adjustment Act of 2009 improved and made permanent the Reemployment Trade Adjustment Assistance wage insurance program. As a result of these changes, more than 170,000 additional trade-impacted workers were eligible for TAA for Workers benefits and training opportunities. Furthermore, the Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act of 2009 made important reforms to the TAA for Firms program and tripled its authorization, improved the TAA for Farmers program and created the TAA for Communities program. More information about TAA can be found at: https://www.doleta.gov/tradeact/ProgramOverview.cfm (####)
02.09.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI), issued the following statement as prepared for delivery at a hearing today on the Administration’s trade policy agenda: “I am disappointed that we start today’s hearing without action to extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance program scheduled to expire on February 12th. TAA has been a good faith effort for nearly 50 years to assist workers who have lost their jobs through trade and globalization. As a result of the 2009 reforms an additional 170,000 workers are eligible for TAA which will help them secure new good paying jobs. Starting Tuesday, tens of thousands of displaced workers will be affected and I urge my Republican colleagues not to let this vital program lapse. “Congressional Democrats have been actively working to shape a new trade policy that is responsive to the changing dynamics of a global economy. We rejected the passive, hands-off approach of the last administration, embracing expansion of trade in ways that assess its impact and broaden the benefits from expanded trade. “Carrying out this new policy, we succeeded in pushing for the inclusion of enforceable worker rights and environmental standards, beginning with their incorporation in the Peru FTA. We have fought for vigorous enforcement of basic rules of competition with our trading partners. We have insisted that trade must be a two-way – not a one-way – street in critical areas of trade. “This is in sharp contrast to the approach of the last Administration, whose view was that trade was good in and of itself, and that more trade was better, regardless of its terms. As President Obama responded, ‘we just went through a decade where we were told that it didn’t matter, you just keep on importing, buying stuff from other countries … and everything is going to be okay. … [B]ut it was all built on a house of cards.’ “So the Obama Administration has been undertaking a vital effort to implement a new and improved trade policy. “A commitment to the enforcement of existing trade agreements and trade laws. That is clear from the China safeguard action on tires. (And recent data indicate that the safeguard action has helped to make possible an increase in U.S. production and employment in U.S. tire manufacturing.) The commitment to enforcement is also clear from the filing of the first case ever on labor provisions in the trade agreement, with Guatemala. And I hope to see that case move forward as soon as possible. “A commitment to two-way trade was embodied in the President’s insistence that we go back and change the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement to finally knock down the barriers there, where automotive trade accounts for 75% of the $10.6 billion U.S. trade deficit with South Korea. “This would not have happened if Republicans had earlier succeeded in their insistence that flawed trade agreements be approved. “Likewise, in the case of Panama, the Administration pushed for an agreement to address Panama’s status as a ‘tax haven,’ and we understand Panama is working to ratify and implement that agreement now. This Administration has also been working on efforts started several years ago to ensure that Panama’s labor laws comply with basic international standards and with its FTA obligations. Because of our efforts, there are now important labor law changes pending before the Panamanian legislature. “With regard to Colombia, as we have pointed out repeatedly and as indicated consistently in State Department and ILO reports, there are serious outstanding issues relating to the Colombia FTA. Colombian labor laws fall short of ILO norms and workers struggle to exercise their right to associate and collectively bargain in a range of sectors. Persistent problems include: abuse of cooperatives and other forms of contracting; employers’ direct negotiation with workers when unions are present; and prohibitions on the right to strike. Moreover, enforcement of labor laws is weak. “Union worker violence in Colombia remains unacceptably high, if not the highest in the world. Limited progress is being made in the investigation and prosecution of those responsible for union murders (as well as the murders of human rights defenders, community activists, internally displaced leaders and victims of extrajudicial killings). Additionally, reports indicate that threats against union workers and others have increased and there has been little concrete action to date to pursue these cases.” As I observed during my 5-day fact-finding trip in Colombia last month, the new Santos Administration has now articulated a different approach from its predecessor that provides an opportunity for serious discussions between the two governments on these concerns. But we should be very clear that the burden is on the Colombian government to act and address concerns that have been made abundantly clear to them for years. The only adequate measuring stick that I support is progress on the ground. There are also areas where I believe we can and must do more to change U.S. trade policy. I hope, for example, that the Administration will take on additional tools and resources – and will develop a comprehensive strategy – to address China’s many trade-distorting policies and the larger threat of “state capitalism.” A good place to start would be in the President’s upcoming budget. Ambassador Kirk and his staff need a substantial increase in funding to address that most important trade policy challenge of our time, and I hope my colleagues across the aisle will join me in supporting such additional funding. I also hope the Administration will take a more assertive stance to address China’s currency manipulation – including by filing a WTO case, applying countervailing import duties in appropriate cases, and formally designating China as a currency manipulator. Other countries are now warning of a global “currency war” and a global “trade war.” The time has come for action.It is action – on so many fronts – that we are already taking. Republicans have expressed impatience with changing U.S. trade policy as they have called for us to return to the failed policies of the past and approve flawed trade agreements. Let me just make clear: We will not go back. (####)
02.03.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) today applauded President Obama’s call to extend and expand energy tax incentives during the President’s appearance in Pennsylvania: “I strongly support President Obama’s call for energy efficiency tax incentives. Advanced energy tax incentives are vital as we seek to lay the foundation for a new era in American manufacturing and innovation as well as reduce our overall energy consumption. “In addition to incentives for energy efficiency upgrades, we must renew the successful 48C tax credit for advanced energy manufacturing, which has supported more than $7 billion in investments for domestic manufacturing facilities. Other important incentives that expired last year, such as the tax credits for purchasing heavy duty hybrids and natural gas vehicles, should be brought back. These incentives are vital parts to the public-private partnership, which is essential to accelerating technology advancements and job creation in advanced manufacturing and alternative energy. We will press to keep them high on the jobs agenda.” (####)
01.26.2011	(Washington D.C.)-Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) delivered the following statement today at a full Committee hearing on health care reform and its impact on the economy: “President Obama said last night that ‘instead of refighting the battles of the last two years, let’s fix what needs fixing and move forward.’ My concern about this hearing is that, indeed, we’ll be refighting the battles of the last two years.“As to 1099, we introduced legislation in the last session in the past year and it was opposed by the then minority because of the pay-for provisions. Ironically, much of what was in the pay-for is now the law of the land. We should have acted on 1099 in the last session. “In his speech, the President also said ‘what I am not willing to do is to go back to the days when insurance companies could deny someone coverage because of a pre-existing condition.’ He went on to point out that the law is now making prescription drugs cheaper for seniors and giving uninsured students a chance to stay on their parents’ coverage.“So I repeat, he then went on to say, ‘instead of fighting the battles of the last two years, let’s fix what needs fixing and move forward.’ I think that’s exactly what we should do and I would hope that will be the tone of the hearing today.” (####)
01.26.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander M. Levin (D-MI) today introduced legislation that aims to expand the production and use of electric vehicles in the United States. Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI) plans to introduce companion legislation in the Senate. The bill would increase the per-manufacturer cap on the Sec. 30D plug-in hybrid $7,500 tax credit from 200,000 vehicles to 500,000 vehicles. The bill’s introduction comes a day after President Obama reiterated the goal that with more research and incentives we can have 1 million electric cars on the road by 2015. “Green vehicles represent the vanguard of automotive innovation, but they have to be economical for consumers and profitable for manufacturers,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Raising the cap on this credit will help carmakers reach the demand and production scale necessary for long-term viability.” “The U.S. auto industry is poised for a technological explosion that promises to fundamentally change transportation here and around the world,” said Sen. Carl Levin. “But if we fail to support this revolution, workers in China, India, South Korea and our other competitors will build these vehicles instead of American workers.” The $7,500 tax credit is now available for car-buyers, but phases out after a manufacturer sells 200,000 vehicles. The current credit was enacted as part of the Recovery Act in February 2009. Five vehicles, including the Chevy Volt, are currently eligible. GM CEO Dan Akerson has said he wants to increase production of the Volt to 25,000 vehicles this year and 120,000 vehicles next year. (####)
01.25.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander M. Levin (MI-12) issued the following statement in response to the President's State of the Union Address: "The President laid out a vision for how to create desperately-needed jobs with investments and innovation. He sent a strong message that we refuse to go along with Republican efforts to turn back the clock, but instead will work to move its hands forward to benefit the hard-working families of our nation. The President made clear that this is no time for retreat. It is time to move forward together. “Under the President's leadership, steps were taken to prevent a recession he inherited from becoming much worse for American families. Steps were taken to make it better. It is absolutely essential to make it far better." (####)
01.25.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today at a full Committee hearing on pending Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with Peru, South Korea and Colombia. “While from the outset most Republicans have been calling for immediate passage of all Free Trade Agreements as originally negotiated by President Bush, we have been hard at work fixing them. “Our approach was that each of the FTAs as originally negotiated did not embody a trade policy responsive to the changing dynamic of a globalized economy and to the best interest of the American people. Trade agreements need to be shaped so that as trade expands the benefits are spread more broadly. “The intervening period since the initial negotiation of the FTAs has been for us in the Democratic ranks one of action, not of inaction. It has been an intensive effort to get trade policy right. “And it is working. “We changed for the better the Peru FTA before its passage. We have substantially improved the Korea FTA and we should have in the coming months the implementation language for consideration and approval. There is now the prospect of successfully addressing tax haven and labor law concerns with the Panama FTA. With respect to the Colombia agreement, the new Santos administration has now articulated a new approach which provides an opportunity to address the serious concerns consistently expressed by us regarding this FTA. “We believe that each trade agreement should be considered on its own merits, not lumped together where key issues are ignored, as some would be willing to do. “It was because of our efforts that enforceable worker rights and environmental standards were added to the U.S. – Peru FTA. As a result, labor conditions are improving in Peru. And while significant work remains to be done to implement and enforce the agreement’s environmental provisions, as a result of the FTA, Peru has created a Ministry of Environment, reformed its forestry oversight agency, revised its criminal laws to strengthen penalties for environmental crimes, deployed 3000 Ecological Police Officers and created new offices for environmental prosecutors. The agreement was also revised to balance the need to encourage innovation with the need to provide access to affordable medicines. Importantly, the Peruvian Government made necessary changes to its labor laws before the vote on the FTA, which was then passed by the Congress with bipartisan support and signed by the President. “Because of our efforts the U.S. - Korea FTA is finally being fixed to open up markets where they were closed and to end one-way trade. For decades Korea has employed a unique and ever changing regulatory regime to discriminate against auto imports, while the U.S. market has been open to their goods. As a result, U.S. automakers exported less than 6,000 cars to South Korea in 2009. In contrast, South Korean automakers have been able to use their historically closed market to finance an aggressive push into the U.S. market, exporting 476,000 cars to the U.S. in 2009. The imbalance is so severe that automotive trade accounts for 75% of the $10.6 billion U.S. trade deficit with South Korea. “The Republican Majority long ago would have simply again accepted a flawed agreement. Fortunately, last year, with the support of Members of Congress, including Chairman Camp, the automakers and the United Auto Workers, the Obama Administration negotiated an additional agreement that will provide U.S. automakers with a real opportunity to compete and succeed in the Korean market. With the changes achieved through the additional agreement, the U.S. auto industry (Ford, Chrysler, GM and the UAW) are supporting the U.S.-Korea FTA. “Because of our efforts, we used the intervening period to address legitimate issues in Panama FTA. Through the intensive efforts of Rep. Doggett and Senator Levin, the Obama Administration successfully concluded a ‘tax information exchange agreement” in November 2010 to address Panama’s status as a ‘tax haven.’ That agreement still needs to be ratified by Panama. This Administration has also been working to ensure that Panama’s labor laws comply with the FTA obligations -- a process we started in 2007. Because of our efforts, there are now important labor law changes pending before the Panamanian legislature. If the approach had been followed by those who pushed for the immediate passage of the Panama FTA, we would have failed to address a tax haven country and to improve labor standards in Panama. “A few days ago, I returned from five days of fact-finding on the ground in Colombia meeting with widely diverse citizen groups and government leaders. I went 20 months ago and I thought it important to compare conditions then and now. It is clear that the intervening period was important in focusing attention on serious issues standing in the way of support for the Colombia FTA. “These issues include violence and intimidation in cases involving the exercise of human, political and labor rights by workers and their leaders, a high level of impunity in such cases, and the failure to reform the legal and administrative structures relating to the exercise of basic international worker rights. “Throughout my discussions, there seemed to be wide agreement that the new Colombian Government was expressing a different approach than its predecessor on these critical issues. I believe there is now an opportunity for the two governments to work together mutually to achieve real progress on the ground. “In closing, I say to the Republican Majority: You may have been willing to pass flawed trade agreements, but we were not. We went about fixing Peru, Panama and Korea. It was time well spent. Instead of criticizing, there should be acknowledgement of the meaningful breakthroughs and we should be working together to implement the U.S. Korea FTA. “Today’s hearing is about trade policy and jobs. Yet there are other trade initiatives that have a serious impact on U.S. jobs.“Much has been said in recent weeks criticizing House Democrats’ focus, in particular, on China’s currency manipulation – well, we focused on it because it matters. China’s undervalued currency has been estimated to cost the United States 500,000 to 1.5 million jobs. According to the National Association of Manufacturers, ‘the number-one factor affecting their exports is the value of the dollar [vis-à-vis other currencies].’ “I was pleased to work with Chairman Camp last fall on currency – an effort that resulted in majorities in both parties supporting a currency bill. I hope we can continue that effort this year, while also working on China’s other trade-distorting practices, including its massive subsidies, its failure to enforce intellectual property rights, its discrimination in government procurement and its ‘indigenous innovation’ policies. “In closing, let me repeat that we must address every trade issue on its merits, and move forward to grow our economy and compete internationally.” (####)
01.24.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA), praised the Obama Administration's efforts to crack down on fraud, waste and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Their efforts in the past year have recouped $4 billion in taxpayer dollars- the highest amount ever. "Every dollar stolen from Medicare weakens this critical program,” said Ranking Member Levin. That’s why this effort is so vital. Ridding the system of fraud and abuse so that the program remains strong for seniors and people with disabilities is a key priority of the new health care reform law. We must not allow that effort to be reversed by repeal." "The Obama Administration is making Medicare work better for senior citizens, people with disabilities, and taxpayers,” said Ranking Member Stark. “Today's announcement underscores the dangers of repealing health reform. Republicans would cost taxpayers billions each year by repealing new tools that help crack down on fraud in Medicare and Medicaid." Health reform provides significant new tools to help the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) combat fraud, waste, and abuse. By repealing health reform, Republicans would: • Eliminate new provider screening and enrollment requirements that stop fraudsters before they've stolen a dime.• Prohibit HHS from imposing a moratorium that would halt new providers from joining Medicare in areas of significant risk offraud.• Weaken penalties for corporations that defraud Medicare and Medicaid and for Medicare Advantage and Part D plans that mislead customers -- increasing the likelihood that these schemes continue. For information on how the health reform law helps crack down on Medicare and Medicaid fraud, waste, and abuse, please visit: https://go.usa.gov/YCu (####)
01.21.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced that three million Medicare beneficiaries nationwide have received prescription drug cost relief thanks to the Affordable Care Act. The three million beneficiaries received a one-time, $250 rebate to help pay for prescription drugs in the “donut hole” coverage gap in 2010. Under the new law, Medicare beneficiaries who fall into the “donut hole” in 2011 will be eligible for 50 percent discounts on covered brand name prescription drugs. “This milestone clearly illustrates the positive impact health care reform has already had on seniors and people with disabilities,” said Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “It highlights why Republican efforts to repeal the bill will hurt our country’s seniors. The donut hole is a financial burden for seniors that will be done away with entirely under the new law.” "The House Republicans' goal of repealing health reform, endangers the health and financial well-being of America's senior citizens and people with disabilities,” said Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA). “Repeal would re-open the Medicare prescription drug donut hole and might well require these three million seniors to pay back their $250 check. Republicans claim that it's not their "intent" for seniors to have to pay back that money, but neither their repeal bill nor their replace resolution ensure that won't happen." Click here to read the HHS release.Click here for additional information on how the Affordable Care Act helps Medicare beneficiaries. (####)
01.20.2011	(Washington D.C.)- The Ways and Means Committee today held the first in a series of hearings on fundamental tax reform. Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement: “We welcome the opportunity to discuss reforming our tax system. Clearly there is a need for tax reform. As was true in 1986, any tax reform will have to be bipartisan and bicameral and will require leadership from the Administration. “In a way, this hearing is a continuation of the conversation begun by Mr. Rangel with his tax reform proposal several years ago that tried to move ahead this issue of tax reform. “I hope this hearing will indeed move the ball forward. However let’s keep in mind that the code is complex and addressing it through tax reform will not be easy. “I do think we need to keep in mind some basic principles. First, is the need for our tax system to help create jobs to help promote economic growth. Next, is the need to ensure that reform is fiscally responsible. Lastly, we must keep in mind is that tax reform has to benefit the working families of America.” “Meeting all three of these criteria will not be easy and we will surely disagree along the way. I agree that we need to pursue tax reform and I look forward to working with Chairman Camp and Members on both sides of the aisle to tackle this issue.” (####)
01.20.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Health Care Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA) today criticized Republicans’ ongoing effort to gut health care benefits for American families. Yesterday, Republicans pushed through a repeal bill and today have followed that with an empty resolution. The entire effort is designed to take away benefits already in place and return power to health insurers. “This rescission agenda is built around gutting benefits for millions of Americans,” said Ranking Member Levin. “Republicans have made it clear that they want to take away benefits for families throughout this country and hand back power to health insurers. They will not succeed. At every step, we will be highlighting the real stories about the millions of American families already benefiting from this law. We are on the offensive and getting out the real facts about reform. Families don’t want us to turn our health care system back over to insurance companies. Instead of turning back the clock on health care reform, we should be zeroing in on job creation.” "This resolution is meaningless. There is no requirement that the committees have to pass any legislation,” said Ranking Member Stark. “There is no date by which committees have to pass legislation. Of the 12 goals it sets, it is drafted so that committees only have to meet one. If Republicans were actually interested in making law that meets not just one, but all of their principles, they wouldn't have voted yesterday to repeal the health reform law.” Click here for additional information about the consequences of the GOP efforts to repeal health reform (####)
01.19.2011	(Washington D.C.)- A district-by-district analysis provides a stark illustration of just how many people in Michigan’s 12th Congressional District would lose out under the Republicans’ repeal bill that is on the House floor today. The study by the House Energy and Commerce Committee shows that hundreds of thousands of families, seniors and children would see their benefits taken away if the repeal bill is enacted. “This repeal bill would hurt families in Michigan and throughout the country by taking away benefits and giving power back to insurance companies,” said Congressman Levin. “The consequences are clear: thousands of people in our district who no longer worry about getting kicked off their insurance plan would again face that anxiety.” The analysis shows that the repeal bill would have significant consequences on MI-12: • Allowing insurance companies to deny coverage to 108,000 to 277,000 individuals, including 7,000 to 33,000 children, with pre-existing conditions.• Rescinding consumer protections for 387,000 individuals who have health insurance through their employer or the market for private insurance.• Eliminating health care tax credits for up to 15,800 small businesses and 165,000 families.• Increasing prescription drug costs for 9,200 seniors who hit the Part D drug “donut hole” and denying new preventive care benefits to 113,000 seniors.• Increasing the costs of early retiree coverage for up to 11,700 early retirees.• Eliminating new health care coverage options for 2,000 uninsured young adults.• Increasing the number of people without health insurance by 33,000 individuals.• Increasing the costs to hospitals of providing uncompensated care by $50 million annually. The full analysis can be found at https://docs.house.gov/energycommerce/health_2011/MI12.Levin.pdf (####)
01.19.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (MI-12) today spoke out on the House floor against the Republican health care repeal effort, citing the millions of Americans who are already benefiting from the law’s provisions that help seniors, children, working families and small businesses. KEY POINT: “Repealing it would hurt families all across our nation. Repeal would mean rescission. Taking away benefits from millions of Americans, giving power back to insurance companies. … To repeal would mean retreat.” The following is a full transcript of his remarks: “Madam Speaker, health reform is an American family law. Repealing it would hurt families all across our nation. Repeal would mean rescission. Taking away benefits from millions of Americans, giving power back to health insurers. Let’s be clear: This law is working. Repealing it would have real life consequences for millions of Americans. As many as 19 million kids in our country have health problems considered pre-existing conditions. In the past it could have led insurance companies to drop their coverage. This new law changed that. One example – there are millions: One mother in my district, Felicia Tisdale, said she is anxious about her daughter’s health insurance since she was diagnosed with diabetes at age three. Ms. Tisdale and others like her no longer have to worry about their children being denied coverage. More than 1 million young adults are already benefiting from the provision that allows them to stay on their parents plan until they turn 26. Just one example. A constituent, Sean McCarthy, an autoworker, told me in a letter that his two children, aged 19 and 23, could not afford to stay in college -- but he was grateful that the new law at least enabled them get health insurance by joining his plan. And then seniors, millions have seen their out-of-pocket drug costs go down under this new law. Nearly 3 million Medicare recipients have received a reimbursement check in the mail in the last year relating to the doughnut hole. One gentleman who I represent, Harry Wimble, of Warren, MI, wrote to me thankful that his wife received $250 that she otherwise would not have. He said his wife paid thousands of dollars out-of-pocket in 2010 because of the doughnut hole. Repeal would mean releasing insurance companies once again to impose unreasonable premium increases. To deny insurance to whomever they please, whenever they please. To set annual lifetime benefit limits. To discriminate against women through higher rates and arbitrary definitions of pre-existing conditions. To repeal would mean retreat -- retreat from moving America ahead. We will fight that retreat. It will not happen. I reserve the balance of my time.” Here is a link to video of Levin’s floor statement: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3p2cUlJShf8 (####)
01.18.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the Department of Health and Human Services released a report showing that as many as 129 million Americans under 65 have what insurance companies consider a pre-existing condition. Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA), today highlighted the findings of this report. Ranking Member Levin: "The consequences of repeal couldn't be more clear: tens of millions of families would face the uncertainty of losing their health coverage because of a pre-existing condition. No one should face the prospect of being denied coverage or dropped from their health insurance plan over a pre-existing condition, yet that's precisely where this repeal bill leads us." Rep. Stark: "The health reform law gives stronger coverage and more security to the millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions. For those with insurance, health reform will eliminate the risk that if they lose their job, they lose their health care. For those without insurance, the law is already providing options to help them find coverage. "Repeal would put insurance companies back in charge, rolling back existing patient rights and eliminating stronger protections in 2014." Health reform is already helping people with pre-existing conditions, for plans starting after September 23, 2010:• Insurers can no longer discriminate against children with pre-existing conditions;• Insurers cannot establish lifetime limits on coverage;• Insurers can no longer drop your coverage if you get sick;• If you have a pre-existing condition and have been denied coverage, you may have access to a Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan in your state. These state insurance plans will serve as a bridge to 2014, when insurance companies are prohibited from denying coverage to all people with pre-existing conditions, or charging them higher premiums or cost-sharing. The Republican proposal up for a vote in the House this week would repeal all of these provisions and replace them with nothing. For the full report from HHS released today, please visit: www.healthcare.gov/center/reports/preexisting.html (####)
01.14.2011	(Washington D.C.)- The Ferndale Fire Department has been awarded an $851,164 grant from the Department of Homeland Security that will go toward rehiring four firefighters. “Firefighters put their lives on the line for us every day and this grant will help ensure that the Ferndale Fire Department has the resources it needs to keep our communities safe,” said Congressman Levin. The $851,164 grant was awarded through the Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. It will enable the department to rehire four firefighters the department laid off last year due to budget constraints. "I am very excited about our SAFER Grant award. This allows us to operate within a margin of safety previously lost when we laid off four firefighters,” said Ferndale Fire Rescue Chief Kevin P. Sullivan. “The two-year period gives us enough time to work out alternate funding mechanisms for the continuation of the increased staffing level." "It was wonderful to receive the news about Ferndale's SAFER grant, a grant that will help to ensure that the residents of Ferndale, Pleasant Ridge and Royal Oak Township continue to receive the excellent fire and EMS services that they deserve,” said Ferndale Mayor Pro Tem Kate Baker. “At a time when cities are struggling with decreased revenues and are forced to cut services, this support is a ray of sunshine." More information can be found at https://www.fema.gov/firegrants/ . (####)
01.14.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) along with Committee Reps. John Lewis (D-GA) and Xavier Becerra (D-CA) are applauding the launch of a Department of Treasury pilot program that offers convenient, electronic delivery of Federal tax returns to taxpayers with little or no access to banking services. In April of last year, Congressman Becerra introduced legislation calling on Treasury to consider delivering tax refunds on debit cards to those taxpayers without bank accounts. A provision to study the alternatives passed the House last year in the Taxpayer Assistance Act of 2010, introduced by Congressman Lewis. “Treasury’s pilot program takes an important step toward ensuring that working American families receive their tax refunds as quickly and securely as possible,” said Ranking Member Levin. “The flexibility offered by this program will empower taxpayers to use their tax returns in a way that best suits them and the needs of their families. I also appreciate the Treasury Department’s attention to the fees associated with these cards and urge them to ensure that this new option is a good deal for refund recipients.” “I am pleased that the Treasury has launched this program,” said Congressman Lewis. “It is an important step toward delivering faster tax refunds to low-income taxpayers and to those who do not have access to traditional banking services. The option to use prepaid debit cards will help these taxpayers take full advantage of free electronic filing options provided by the IRS.” “For the millions of working Americans—many of whom reside in my district—who do not have access to a traditional bank account, this innovative program from the Treasury Department will put money in their pockets in the fastest and most convenient way possible,” Rep. Becerra said. According to the Treasury Department release, “As the next step in this pilot, originally announced in September, Treasury will mail letters next week to 600,000 low- and moderate-income individuals nationwide. The letters will invite these taxpayers to consider activating a MyAccountCard Visa® Prepaid Debit Card in time to have their 2010 federal tax refund direct deposited to the card. Compared to paper checks, direct deposit provides a safer, faster and more convenient way to receive a federal tax refund as well as other regular income.” In her 2009 Annual Report to Congress, the National Taxpayer Advocate recommended that a Treasury stored value card be created to enable unbanked taxpayers to take advantage of the benefits of direct depositing their refunds.Click here for further information from the Treasury Department. (####)
01.12.2011	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (MI-12) today made the following statement on the House floor following the tragic shooting of U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords and 19 other people on Saturday: “We all come together in the aftermath of the overwhelming tragedy at Tucson to remember all of the victims and also to fervently hope, still in disbelief. Our colleague Gabby Giffords epitomizes what a public servant should be – fully dedicated, principled, caring and reaching out to all constituents and to all our colleagues. Time will tell with clarity exactly what are the appropriate lessons for all of us to learn from the Tucson tragedy. In the meanwhile, our focus is indeed very personal. In the holiday card that Gabby sent to me, she wrote her best wishes for a joyful new year and continued writing that we will have our work cut out for us. The new year is now far, far less joyful. So our hope in the prayer we are sending with love to Gabby and to Mark is that Gabby will be able to join us as we take on the work cut out for us, to which Gabby, you have devoted your whole self so fully.” Here is a link to video of Levin’s floor statement: https://youtu.be/9eLlEw14C5o (####)
01.07.2011	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Labor today issued its monthly employment report finding that in the month of December, the economy created 103,000 jobs and the unemployment rate dropped to 9.4 percent, the lowest level in 19 months. Additionally, the report indicates that private sector employment grew for the twelfth straight month.Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), issued the following statement: “Providing further evidence that the policies set in motion by the Democratic-led Congress and President Obama are helping to create jobs and boost the economy, the Jobs report underscores how we must be vigilant if we are to stay on a path that accelerates job growth and supports the millions of Americans who remain unemployed. “Unfortunately, Republicans instead are focused on setting the stage to take away Americans’ vital health care protections and hand them back to insurance companies. Their efforts are misplaced priorities for the economy, health care and deficit reduction.” Key findings in today’s report:• Since December 2009, total payroll employment has increased by 1.1 million• The change in total nonfarm payroll employment for October was revised from +172,000 to +210,000, and the change for November was revised from +39,000 to +71,000. • In December, health care employment continued to expand, with a gain of 36,000 for a total of 266,000 for 2010. (####)
01.07.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement on President Obama’s appointment of Gene B. Sperling as Director of the National Economic Council. He will also announce Jason Furman as Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Principal Deputy Director of the National Economic Council: “I applaud the President’s selection of Gene Sperling to head the National Economic Council. Gene is a tireless and effective advocate for middle class workers and their families. Gene is a creative and solution-oriented public servant and our nation will be ably served by this appointment. “In addition, the enhanced role of Jason Furman on economic issues is recognition of his dedicated and effective service to help our economy recover and create opportunity for all Americans. “As the jobs numbers indicated this morning, we are making progress digging out of a deep, deep economic hole but we must be vigilant in our efforts to accelerate recovery for American families. The President’s appointments make clear his intention to remain focused on helping American businesses and workers recover and create jobs.” (####)
01.06.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement on the appointment of former Commerce Secretary Bill Daley as the next White House Chief of Staff: “The President will have an effective administrator in Bill Daley. Bill Daley is someone who listens well, acts decisively and who very much understands middle America and the economic stresses families face.” “My experience with him during the debate over China’s entry into the World Trade Organization is that he respected and encouraged the role of Congress.” (####)
01.04.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today Democratic leaders of the Committees with jurisdiction over health policy, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry A. Waxman, and Education and Labor Committee Chairman George Miller, sent a letter to their respective incoming chairmen regarding plans of the House Republican leadership to bring major legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act to the floor. The Republican leadership plans to vote on repeal without any public hearings on the widespread disruption repeal would cause to consumers, businesses, and health care providers and without paying for the trillion dollar cost of repeal. The full text of the letter follows: January 4, 2011 The Honorable Fred UptonChairman-DesignateCommittee on Energy and CommerceU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, DC 20515 The Honorable Dave CampChairman-DesignateCommittee on Ways and MeansU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, DC 20515 The Honorable John KlineChairman-DesignateCommittee on Education and LaborU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman-Designate Upton, Chairman-Designate Camp, and Chairman-Designate Kline: We write to object to the apparent decision of the House Republican leadership to bring to the floor next week legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Republicans won control of the House in the November elections promising to bring greater transparency in government and more fiscal responsibility. It is insincere to run on a platform of openness and fiscal discipline and then in one of your first acts as the majority party bring major legislation to the floor without any public hearings and without paying for the trillion dollar cost of repeal. Repealing the health care law will increase the deficit, kill jobs, increase taxes, and deny care to women, children, and seniors. The legislation you are considering repealing affects a major part of our economy. Since enactment of the Affordable Care Act last year, millions of Americans are receiving health benefits under the legislation, millions of small businesses are making coverage decisions based on the tax credits provided by the legislation, and countless doctors, hospitals, and health providers across the nation have made changes in their practices in response to the new law. Repeal would cause widespread disruption that would reverberate across the nation. There are many examples of the kinds of disruption that would be caused by repeal: • Repeal would eliminate the ban on discrimination by health insurers based on pre-existing conditions. Under the health reform law, this ban is already in effect for policies for children and will go into effect for policies covering adults in the near future. Without this ban, insurance companies could resume denying coverage to individuals suffering from hundreds of medical conditions. • Repeal would let health insurance companies rescind coverage when a policyholder gets sick. An investigation by the Committee on Energy and Commerce revealed that prior to health reform, many insurers engaged in the practice of retroactive termination, called “rescission,” of coverage after individuals become ill, often for specious reasons. Repeal of the reform law would allow insurers to resume rescissions. • Repeal would eliminate tax credits for small businesses and American families. The Affordable Care Act makes up to four million small businesses eligible for tax credits for up to 35% of the cost of providing health insurance. In addition, when fully implemented, the Affordable Care Act will give middle class families the largest tax cut for health care in history, providing tax credits for families with incomes up to $88,000 for a family of four. • Repeal would increase costs for seniors and cut important new benefits. The health reform law provides a 50% discount for prescription drugs for all Medicare beneficiaries who reach the Medicare “Part D” donut hole beginning in 2011. Repeal would increase the average cost of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries who reach this coverage gap by over $500 in 2011 and $3,000 by 2020. Under the health reform law, Medicare can no longer charge seniors for recommended preventive services, including a free annual wellness visit. Private insurers are also required to offer these services without charge. • Repeal would increase costs for employers. More than 3,000 employers are currently receiving help paying for the costs of their early retiree health care. That includes more than 50% of the Fortune 500, and over 200 companies and local governments in each of your states of Michigan and Minnesota. Repealing health reform would increase employer costs during a fragile economic recovery. • Repeal would eliminate health insurance options for young adults. The health reform law allows young adults to remain on their parents’ insurance policies up to age 26. One in three young adults was uninsured prior to health reform. • Repeal would eliminate the ban on annual and lifetime limits on covered benefits. The health reform law ensures families do not have to face financial ruin because of circumstances beyond their control such as a child contracting a critical illness. And repeal would have tremendous adverse fiscal consequences. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the health reform law will reduce the deficit by over $100 billion over the next ten years and by $1.2 trillion over the second decade. It will also extend the solvency of the Medicare trust fund from 2017 to 2029. If Republicans succeed in repealing the law, this will balloon the federal deficit and shorten the life of the Medicare trust fund by twelve years. These consequences need to be examined in public hearings so that Members of Congress and the American people understand the full ramifications of your legislative proposal. Whatever your views about the health reform law prior to passage, the bill is now part of our health care system and millions of families and businesses have made decisions based upon the new law. We need to hear from representatives of the small businesses, seniors, middle-class families, and young adults whose health care costs would be affected and whose health care rights would be taken away by repeal. We should also hear from physicians, nurses, hospitals, and health insurers about the kinds of disruptions they would experience. And we should consider the views of states, national health care policy experts, the Congressional Budget Office, and other nonpartisan economic experts about the impact repeal would have on our health care system. The contrast between the approach the Republican leadership is proposing and the open process the Democrats followed last Congress is stark. Before the House voted on health reform legislation in November 2009, the three Committees of jurisdiction spent nearly 100 hours in hearings, featuring testimony from 181 witnesses. The Committee on Energy and Commerce Committee alone held over ten days of hearings on health reform. The text of our bill was posted online for four weeks before we commenced our Committee markups. And when we proceeded to markup, the three Committees debated a total of 239 amendments, approving 121 amendments, including amendments offered by Republicans. As you may recall, Republican leaders repeatedly criticized Democrats for moving too fast and not holding enough hearings. When the Committee on Energy and Commerce began its markup on July 16, 2009, Mr. Upton complained about the lack of a subcommittee markup, saying: “I have been on this Committee since 1991, and I do not remember a time that we skipped on a major bill like this … the subcommittee of jurisdiction. We shouldn’t have skipped that. We should have had the subcommittee vet this out. We should have had a better understanding to get this bill done.”[1] Mr. Upton also wrote to complain about insufficient consultation.[2] Ranking Member Joe Barton and other leading Republicans repeatedly asked for additional hearings.[3] Now that Republicans are in charge, you and your leadership are proposing to repeal health reform and disrupt patients, doctors, and health care providers across the country without even a single day of hearings. There will be no subcommittee consideration like you asked for last Congress, nor any committee consideration at all. This is an offense to good government. The Republican leadership is apparently trying to do with speed and stealth what could not be accomplished in the light of public hearings. You will soon be Chairmen of the Committees with jurisdiction over the health policies of our nation. We urge you to reject the strategy of keeping from the American people the negative impacts of repealing the Affordable Care Act and insist that our three Committees hold public hearings and markups before this legislation comes to the House floor. Sincerely, Henry A. WaxmanChairman Committee on Energy and Commerce Sander M. LevinChairmanCommittee on Ways and Means George MillerChairman Committee on Education and Labor (####)
01.04.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI), and Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chair Pete Stark (D-CA) criticized the Republican plan to jeopardize health reform after legislative text was posted yesterday. Chairman Levin: “As new Republican Members of Congress sign up for their own taxpayer-funded health care insurance they are rushing to jeopardize health care for millions of Americans. Without one single hearing they are turning the clock back on our health care system and turning their back on Americans already benefitting from reform." Chairman Stark: "The Republicans' NoCare plan would raise the number of uninsured by 32 million, balloon the deficit, raise health care costs for seniors, and raise taxes on small businesses that provide health care for their employees. No wonder they want to skirt their own rules to jam this bill through." The Republican repeal plan would jeopardize health coverage for all Americans. Among other things, their bill would: • Allow insurers to discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions, women, and older individuals • Balloon the deficit • Increase the uninsured by 32 million • End tax credits to help people afford health coverage• Eliminate the small business tax credit • Re-open the Medicare Part D donut hole • Reduce Medicare's solvency by 12 years • Gut programs to fight Medicare fraud, waste, and abuse • Make more Americans face medical bankruptcy • Kick people out of new Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plans For more information on the dangerous effects of their bill, please visit: https://go.usa.gov/1L0 (####)
12.22.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today regarding the Senate’s failure to act on H.R. 6517, the Omnibus Trade Act of 2010 which provides critical assistance to hundreds of thousands of workers and promotes the competitiveness of American manufacturing. The legislation, which includes important expiring trade provisions, passed the House of Representatives with broad bipartisan support on December 15, 2010. “Senate Republicans are poised to leave many tens of thousands of workers – unemployed and in training to transition to new careers – high and dry. Senate Republicans are holding up H.R. 6517, which extends the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, the Andean Trade Preferences program and the Generalized System of Preferences program, all which are set to expire at the end of the year. This legislation passed the House with broad bipartisan support, and is supported by the Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers and the AFL-CIO. Failure to pass this bill will have serious adverse consequences for workers, manufacturers and developing countries. “I am especially concerned about the impact that the failure to pass H.R. 6517 will have on workers eligible for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). TAA helps workers who have lost their jobs as a result of trade get the skills and training they need to compete and succeed in the global marketplace. In 2009, TAA was overhauled in a bipartisan, bicameral effort by myself, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Camp, and Senators Baucus and Grassley. Our reforms expanded TAA eligibility to eliminate nonsensical restrictions that severely restricted eligibility, tripled training funding to address past shortfalls and to promote meaningful retraining, and increased the Health Coverage Tax Credit to 80 percent. “As a result of these reforms, more than 155,000 additional trade-impacted workers who may not have been certified under the former TAA program became eligible for TAA for Workers benefits and training opportunities. In total, more than 367,000 workers were certified as eligible for TAA support in that timeframe. In FY2010 alone, 227,882 workers took advantage of TAA and participated in the program, receiving case management, training and/or income support. “Unless the Senate passes H.R. 6517 before the end of the year, these reforms expire with grave consequences for many tens of thousands of trade-affected workers. Most significantly, training funds will be cut from $575 million to $220 million and as was the case before 2009, putting meaningful retraining opportunities, like enrollment in community college, out of reach. States, as was the case prior to the 2009 reforms, will revert to rationing training funds by discouraging training or pushing TAA workers into short-term certification programs. These programs will not provide them the skills needed to get new jobs in growth sectors like health, IT and precision manufacturing and contribute to the economic recovery. It will also mean that services workers, including call center employees whose jobs move offshore, will no longer be eligible for retraining assistance. And it will impact those currently using the TAA program immediately, as the health care benefit drops immediately to 65 percent. “I am also very troubled by Senate Republicans’ willingness to shelve – likely permanently, miscellaneous tariff bill (MTB) provisions in H.R. 6157 that promote the competitiveness of U.S. manufacturers. One report suggests that the H.R. 6517 MTB provisions, along with the MTB provisions enacted into law on a bipartisan basis this summer, support tens of thousands of American jobs, helping to increase U.S. production and expand gross domestic product by billions of dollars. I am also concerned that the Andean Trade Preferences program and the Generalized System of Preferences will expire. “Senate Republicans’ objections are short-sighted and cynical. It’s time to put partisan politics aside and pass this important, broadly supported legislation that will help workers, manufacturers and developing countries.” Support for H.R. 6517AFL-CIOU.S. Chamber of CommerceAmerican Manufacturing Trade Action CoalitionAmerican Fiber Manufacturers Association, Inc. National Council of Textile Organizations National Textile AssociationCoalition for GSPNational Association of Manufacturers (NAM)National Association of State Workforce Agencies (NASWA)National Employment Law Project (NELP)U.S. Governors Multiple Trade Associations: Agriculture Transportation CoalitionAmerican Apparel & Footwear Association (AAFA)American Fiber Manufacturers Association (AFMA)American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition (AMTAC)Association of American Chambers of Commerce in Latin America (AACCLA)Brazil-U.S. Business CouncilBusiness RoundtableCoalition for GSPCoalition of New England Companies for Trade (CONECT)Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT)Fashion Accessories Shippers Association (FASA)INDA, Association of the Nonwoven Fabrics IndustryNational Association of Manufacturers (NAM)National Council of Textile Organizations (NCTO)National Foreign Trade Council (NFTC)National Retail Federation (NRF)National Textile Association (NTA)Outdoor Industry Association (OIA)Pacific Coast Council of Customs Brokers and Freight ForwardersRetail Industry Leaders Association (RILA)Sewn Products Equipment & Suppliers of the Americas (SPESA)The Hosiery Association (THA)Travel Goods Association (TGA)U.S. Chamber of CommerceU.S.-India Business CouncilUnited States Association of Importers of Textiles and Apparel (USA-ITA) Click here for additional information on H.R. 6517 (####)
12.16.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Legislation to renew Johanna's Law, a bill that created a federal campaign to educate women and health care providers about the risk factors and early warning signs of gynecologic cancers, has been approved by both Houses of Congress and will head to the President for his signature. Rep. Levin, who authored the original legislation that passed Congress in December 2006 and was signed into law in early 2007, co-sponsored the renewal legislation earlier this year. Johanna's Law is named after Michigan resident Johanna Silver Gordon, a loving mother and dedicated public school teacher in Southfield, who, despite visiting her doctor regularly, was blindsided by a diagnosis of late-stage ovarian cancer, learning only after her diagnosis that the symptoms she had been experiencing were common symptoms of that disease. Despite the best efforts of her physicians, tragically, Johanna lost her life to ovarian cancer 3 ½ years after being diagnosed. “Knowledge saves lives and the more women and doctors are able to detect gynecological cancers at their most treatable stage the more lives we can save, ” said Rep. Levin. “Ovarian cancer, which causes more deaths in women than any other gynecological cancer, has a 93 percent survival rate if detected early. Our best weapon against gynecological cancers is early detection.” Every hour, approximately 10 women in the U.S. are diagnosed with a gynecologic cancer, including ovarian, cervical, or uterine cancer. Each year, 26,000 of our mothers, sisters, daughters, and friends dies of one of these terrible diseases. Ovarian cancer causes more deaths in women than any other gynecological cancer; however, it has a 93 percent survival rate if detected in Stage One, but only a 20 percent survival rate if detected in Stage Three or Four. Currently, only 25-30 percent of cases are currently diagnosed before Stage Three. Thanks to Johanna’s Law, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has had the resources to produce a comprehensive public information campaign titled “Inside Knowledge” that includes public service announcements on TV and radio and comprehensive information on the CDC website: https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/knowledge/ (####)
12.16.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) delivered the following statement today on the House Floor during debate of H.R. 4853, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010: “The Democratic Majority in the House has made it crystal clear that we stand on the side of middle income families, of unemployed workers, of small businesses – struggling in this difficult economy. “The compromise before us clearly requires painful choices. These choices relate to each of the three criteria for judging the merits of this package: Does it add to the deficit? Does it promote economic growth? And does it promote fairness? “For decades Republicans have unwisely promoted a view that tax cuts pay for themselves – so while making deficit reduction their rhetoric, they never have had any intention of paying for tax cuts - which add to the deficit plain and simple. Adding to the deficit is defensible if the bill meets another criterion. Does it promote economic growth? “Adding to the deficit in the short term as a tool to promote growth that will in turn help address the long-term deficit has been the basis of vital actions taken by the Democratic Majority. Actions to stem the financial crisis, jump start the economy and save the auto industry. These were necessary steps, sometimes unpopular steps, and steps unfortunately not effectively articulated by the Administration. “This bill does include important provisions aimed at increasing economic growth and jobs: - unemployment insurance for millions out of work who will spend the money they receive to keep their families afloat, - the middle income tax cut, - the temporary reduction in payroll taxes, - And business provisions like the R&D Tax credit, the New Markets credit and full expensing of business investment for one year. “Unfortunately, in their zeal to undo the Recovery Act, Republicans have insisted that we not extend the successful 48C credit for advanced energy manufacturing or the Build America Bond program - programs working to re-build our economy. “The Republicans have insisted on provisions that violate the third criterion—fairness for taxpayers. In order for the Administration to be able to include provisions that help lower and middle income families, it came at the price of assisting the very wealthy—the Republican’s priority. “Their position has led to a package where the top six-tenths of one percent of the very wealthiest receive 20 percent of the benefits of the tax package. My amendment would strike a blow at this unfairness by replacing the highly irresponsible and unfair Kyl estate tax giveaway. The resulting $23 billion in additional borrowing won’t go to create jobs. It will be used to provide an average tax cut of more than $1.5 million to the 6,600 wealthiest estates next year. This represents less than three-tenths of one percent of all estates. “I urge my colleagues to vote to change this egregious piece of the legislation so the American people can see clearly who puts the interest of the middle class ahead of the very wealthiest. Then the Republicans in the Senate will have a stark choice that might be painful for them. It would make it clear whose side they are on. “I will accept the remainder of the bill because after the approach taken by Republicans in the House and the Senate these last weeks – obstructing and holding hostage everything until they get their way on the tax breaks for the very wealthy – I am not willing to put the fate of the middle class and the unemployed in the hands of the Republican Majority next year. Especially when voiced by the Senate Republican Leader – that their main priority is the failure of our President.” (####)
12.15.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin supported repeal of the U.S. military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy which bars otherwise qualified men and women from serving in the armed forces based solely on their sexual orientation. The legislation repealing the controversial 17-year-old policy passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 250 to 175. “The ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ policy is discriminatory and it harms U.S. military readiness,” said Rep. Levin. “Our country is far ahead of the U.S. Congress in understanding how unnecessary this policy is and it is time for us to step up to the plate and do the right thing by ending this discrimination.” The repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” (DADT) would take effect only after the Administration transmits a written certification signed by the president, Defense Secretary, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff stating that ending the ban would not negatively impact military readiness, military effectiveness, unit cohesion, and recruiting and retention of the armed forces. The House of Representatives included a similar repeal of DADT in May as part of the annual defense authorization bill. However, Senate Republicans argued that consideration of the measure be postponed until an adequate study of the effects of the policy change on the military was completed. The Pentagon completed a report and released it on November 30th. The report concluded that allowing gay men and women to serve openly in the United States armed forces presents a low risk to the military’s effectiveness. It also found that 70 percent of service members believe that the impact of repealing the law would be either positive, mixed or of no consequence at all. However, Senate Republicans continue to block the repeal. House passage of stand-alone DADT repeal legislation will give the Senate another opportunity to pass the measure before the end of the year. Under DADT, the military may not ask service members about their sexual orientation, but is required to discharge any service member known to be gay, lesbian, or bisexual. Over 13,500 service members have been discharged as a result of DADT, including over 800 mission-critical troops and over 50 Arabic linguists. (####)
12.15.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 6517, the Omnibus Trade Act of 2010, as amended, by voice vote. The legislation, introduced by Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) on December 13, 2010, promotes the competitiveness of American manufacturing and extends important expiring trade provisions. “H.R. 6517’s passage by the House today is vital for expanding American jobs and helping hundreds of thousands of workers who lost their employment and who continue to seek to return to work,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The bill’s provisions reinforce each other and I urge my Senate colleagues to act without delay to pass this important legislation.” BACKGROUND ON THE OMNIBUS TRADE ACT OF 2010: Miscellaneous Tariff Bills • Temporarily suspends or reduces import duties on over 290 products, mostly on inputs or components, reducing the cost of manufacturing here in the United States (this is a second grouping of “miscellaneous tariff bills” – the first was signed into law in August after passing the House by a vote of 378-43). • The MTB supports American manufacturing. In fact, an overwhelming 91 percent of the bill – 271 of 298 provisions – cover inputs used in further manufacturing, including chemical inputs, inputs used by the U.S. textile and apparel industry, and inputs for metals and petroleum exploration. Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA)• Extends TAA programs that were overhauled in 2009 for 18 months, providing support and training to trade-affected workers. • Since the reforms were implemented in May 2009, more than 155,000 additional trade-impacted workers who may not have been certified under the former TAA program became eligible for TAA for Workers benefits and training opportunities. In total, more than 367,000 workers were certified as eligible for TAA support in that timeframe. In FY2010 alone, 227,882 workers took advantage of TAA and participated in the program, receiving case management, training and/or income support. GSP/ATPA• Extends tariff preference programs for developing countries (i.e., the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) and the Andean Trade Preferences Act (ATPA)) for 18 months. Both GSP and ATPA help support U.S. jobs, in addition to promoting development. The majority of U.S. imports under GSP (65-75%, depending on the year) were inputs used to support U.S. manufacturing – including raw materials, parts and components, and machinery and equipment. And in 2009, $115 million of U.S. textile mill products (U.S. yarns and fabrics) were exported to the ATPA countries. Wool Trust Fund • Ensures funding for a program in place since 2000 that assists U.S. wool suit makers and their workers (the wool trust fund). Click here for additional information, including bill text, a summary and CBO score.Click here for an updated online Miscellaneous Tariff Bill matrix. (####)
12.14.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives will consider H.R. 6517, the Omnibus Trade Act of 2010, as amended, tomorrow. Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) introduced this important legislation to extend expiring trade provisions, and to support American manufacturing on December 13, 2010. “This bill highlights efforts to expand and shape trade,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The bill includes key provisions to promote the competitiveness of U.S. manufacturing and the U.S. workforce in a globalized economy, by reducing import duties on over 290 products used by U.S. manufacturers. Very critically, the bill extends the successful Trade Adjustment Assistance reforms which provide vital assistance to workers who have been adversely affected by trade, and ensures that we are giving them the tools they need to succeed in a globally competitive economy. The improved TAA program has helped 227,882 workers in 2010 alone, and it must continue. The bill also extends two important expiring trade preference programs (GSP and the Andean program) structured to ensure complementary trade between the United States and developing countries.” The Omnibus Trade Act of 2010, as amended for consideration on suspension: • Temporarily suspends or reduces import duties on over 290 products, mostly on inputs or components, reducing the cost of manufacturing here in the United States (this is a second grouping of “miscellaneous tariff bills” – the first was signed into law in August after passing the House by a vote of 378-43); • Extends Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) programs that were overhauled in 2009 for 18 months, providing support and training to trade-affected workers. Since the reforms were implemented in May 2009, more than 155,000 additional trade-impacted workers who may not have been certified under the former TAA program became eligible for TAA for Workers benefits and training opportunities. In total, more than 367,000 workers were certified as eligible for TAA support in that timeframe. In FY2010 alone, 227,882 workers took advantage of TAA and participated in the program, receiving case management, training and/or income support; • Extends tariff preference programs for developing countries (i.e., the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) and the Andean Trade Preferences Act (ATPA)) for 18 months; and • Ensures funding for a program in place since 2000 that assists U.S. wool suit makers and their workers (the wool trust fund). Click here for a summary of the bill, as amended for consideration.Click here for an updated online Miscellaneous Tariff Bill matrix. (####)
12.13.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA) commented on today's ruling by a Bush Appointee to the Federal District Court in Virginia against the individual mandate in health reform. Fourteen other judges, appointed by Republicans and Democrats, have already ruled against similar lawsuits. Chairman Levin: “A quality health care system for all Americans is built on the premise that responsibility is shared between employers, the government, and the individual. Fourteen similar cases have been dismissed or decided in favor of the Affordable Care Act, recognizing the importance of a functioning, affordable health care market, and I am confident that after review at the appellate level this case will also be decided in favor of the Affordable Care Act.” Chairman Stark: "Apparently Republicans are now for judicial activism after they were against it. Unfortunately, we already know what happens if this lawsuit succeeds. Millions of Americans will lose their health insurance, premiums will go up for working families, and more people will be forced into bankruptcy when they get sick." (####)
12.13.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute settlement panel today found in favor of the United States in a dispute brought by China concerning additional duties on imports of Chinese tires under the safeguard mechanism included in China’s Protocol of Accession to the WTO. The panel found that the United States acted consistently with its WTO obligations. “Today’s WTO findings prove that we can and must use trade laws to stand up for U.S. business and workers and not hesitate because of baseless allegations of WTO-inconsistency,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The safeguard helped the U.S. tire industry re-hire workers and increase production, and with the support from key Members of Congress, the Obama Administration is to be commended for continuing to stand firmly behind U.S. workers and businesses as the United States implements WTO-consistent tools to address China’s unfair trade practices. ” Background from the United States Trade Representative (USTR): On September 11, 2009, the President imposed additional duties on imports of certain passenger vehicle and light truck tires from China for a period of three years in order to remedy the market disruption caused by those imports, as determined by the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC). This safeguard measure was imposed in response to a petition filed by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers Union under section 421 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. § 2451). Section 421 implements the transitional safeguard contained in Section 16 of China’s Protocol of Accession to the WTO. On September 14, 2009, China requested consultations with respect to the President’s determination. China alleged that the additional duties were inconsistent with the GATT 1994, the Agreement on Safeguards, and China’s Protocol of Accession. China also alleged that various elements of the USITC’s determination regarding market disruption were inconsistent with the Protocol of Accession. In addition, China alleged that the level and duration of the additional duties were also inconsistent with the Protocol of Accession. Finally, China alleged that the section 421 definition of significant cause was in and of itself inconsistent with the Protocol of Accession. The WTO established a panel in January 2010 to hear this dispute. The panel held meetings with the parties in June and July 2010. The panel found in favor of the United States with respect to all of China’s claims. Both sides have the right to appeal the panel’s findings to the WTO Appellate Body within 60 days. (####)
12.09.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) released the following statement today after the Democratic Caucus electing him to become the Committee’s Ranking Member in the 112th Congress. “I am pleased to have received a vote of confidence from the House Democratic Caucus to lead the Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee today. I told my colleagues that I believe every Member of the Democratic Caucus should participate and serve as an ad hoc member of the Ways and Means committee because the important issues before us – economic growth, health care reform, tax equity, social security and deficit reduction – require all of our efforts. “There is much work to do, and I am determined to continue fighting on behalf of middle class families and communicating to the American people that their struggle is our struggle. We won’t stop until we turn this economy around and build a brighter future for our nation’s children.” (####)
12.03.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today after the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform failed to adopt a set of policy proposals drafted by its leaders: “There is absolutely no question that we, as a nation, must get serious and address our long-term fiscal deficit. Even as we continue to take targeted steps to address the dire economic situation facing so many American families and businesses, Congress and this Administration must be keenly aware of the burden this debt places on future generations, and stand ready to roll up our sleeves to address this growing crisis. “The Fiscal Commission’s work has shown both the urgency and the complexity of this critical issue and has increased the essential, national conversation that must occur around countless dinner tables as well as here in Washington. While they have failed to advance formally their proposal out of the Commission, they have helped to shine a brighter light on these issues, and offered ideas for a long-overdue discussion. Ultimately, proposals considered by this Commission proved to be imbalanced and unworkable due to the disproportionate burden they would place on America’s seniors and middle- and lower-income families. “Now that they have finished their work, it is my hope that we can take their proposals and envelop them into a broader conversation with new ideas and energy toward solving our critical long-term fiscal deficit.” (####)
12.03.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today in response to the announcement of an agreement on critical changes to the pending trade agreement between the U.S. and South Korea: “The changes announced to the U.S. – Korea Free Trade Agreement (FTA) today are a dramatic step toward changing from a one-way street to a two-way street for trade between the U.S. and South Korea. These changes represent an important opportunity to break open the Korean market for U.S. businesses and workers and boost American manufacturing jobs, particularly in the automotive sector. “For decades South Korea has employed a unique and ever changing regulatory regime to discriminate against auto imports while the U.S. market has been totally open to their goods. As a result, U.S. automakers exported less than 6,000 cars to South Korea in 2009 while South Korea has used its historically closed market to finance an aggressive push into the U.S. market, exporting 476,000 cars to the U.S. in 2009. The imbalance is so severe that automotive trade accounts for a full three-quarters of the $10.6 billion U.S. trade deficit with South Korea. “Today’s agreement delays the elimination of the U.S. tariff on South Korean auto exports for five years, unlike the 2007 FTA, which would have eliminated duties on Korean car exports immediately. This development provides leverage to assure that Korea opens its market and provides time for our industry to root itself in the Korean marketplace. Today’s changes will also tear down South Korea’s wall of non-tariff barriers (NTBs), including their improper use of tax rules and discriminatory safety and emissions standards that have shut U.S. automakers out of their market. The changes also include, for the first time ever, an auto-specific safeguard that will protect U.S. manufacturers from a harmful surge of South Korean imports in the future. Most importantly, today’s changes are fully enforceable. “The FTA also includes robust labor and environmental commitments that are fully enforceable that were agreed to in May 2007. Going forward, the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations provide an opportunity to continue working on other provisions within the framework of trade agreements. “The changes announced today resulted from the Administration, domestic automotive industry, the United Auto Workers and a key, bipartisan Congressional group standing up for American manufacturing. This was the only way to reverse the historic, lopsided pattern of one-way trade with South Korea. I support today’s agreement. It is important for American manufacturing and American jobs. It is also an important step toward a global rules-based trade system.” IMPORTANT CHANGES TO THE KOREA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (FTA) TARIFFS Under the 2007 agreement, almost 90% of Korea’s auto exports to the United States would have received duty free access on the first day the FTA entered into force. Duty elimination for Korea’s auto exports is now delayed until Year 5, giving U.S. automakers the opportunity to reverse decades of South Korean protectionism, providing important time to establish a brand and distribution presence and leverage to evaluate Korea’s compliance. Cuts in the U.S. 25% truck tariff are substantially delayed. Under the 2007 agreement, truck tariffs began to be cut on the first day the FTA entered into force. Cuts are now delayed until Year 8. AUTO-SPECIFIC SAFEGUARD The agreement includes a first-ever auto-specific safeguard designed to protect against potential surges of Korean cars and trucks, once the applicable tariffs are eliminated. The remedy is the snapback of the tariff. The safeguard now can be used more than once. No compensation is required for the first two years the safeguard is in place. And now, the safeguard is available for 10 years after the elimination of the applicable tariff. SAFETY STANDARDS The agreement will level the playing field and prevent Korea from relying on discriminatory, rotating safety regulations – as it has in the past – to shut out U.S. auto imports and give U.S. automakers the chance to make real inroads into Korea’s auto market. It requires Korea to recognize 25,000 vehicles built to meet U.S. safety standards per automaker per year as meeting its safety standards, an increase from 6,500 in the 2007 agreement. ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS The agreement prevents Korea from using its new CO2 regulations to shut out U.S. imports. The agreement gives automakers the opportunity and time as needed to sell a diverse fleet mix and to secure a real commercial presence in Korea. TAXES The agreement provides transparency based protections to ensure that Korea does not use its taxes in a discriminatory manner. ACCOUNTABILITY The agreement mandates that Korea establish post-implementation reviews to deter the use of discriminatory standards. In order to prevent Korea from using new rules to disrupt imports, the agreement gives U.S. automakers 12 months to comply with any new Korean standards. ENFORCEMENT The agreement is fully enforceable. (####)
12.03.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) made the following statement today following the Department of Labor release of the November jobs report. “Today’s news underscores the moral and economic obligation facing Congress right now to extend unemployment benefits for those struggling to find their next job opportunity in this slowly recovering economy. With the holiday season upon us we have an opportunity to prevent millions from further economic distress. “Letting these programs expire sharpens an already double-edged sword. According to a new Administration report, as of October, 14 million workers have been helped by these UI programs. Forty million when you include their families. For almost half of these households who rely entirely on these UI programs, 90 percent of income will be lost. Simultaneously, the report finds that failing to continue emergency UI benefits would reduce employment by 600,000 jobs and lower GDP by 0.6 percent. In short, cutting off these benefits reduces consumer demand which would lead to more layoffs. “As Americans struggle to make ends meet, Republicans are turning a cold shoulder to their plight by voting against middle class tax relief and the extension of unemployment benefits. We need to move forward on both issues urgently to continue to build a road to economic recovery.” Click here for the White House Council on Economic Advisor’s report. (####)
12.02.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives took a critical step toward providing tax relief and economic certainty to middle-income families today by passing the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010. Provisions included in the legislation would extend expiring tax relief targeted to middle-income families. “Today the House took a critical step forward for hardworking middle-income families in need of economic certainty and security,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “Republicans wanted to keep middle-income tax cuts hostage, to combine them with tax cuts for the wealthiest few, but today we freed millions of middle-income families from this hostage situation. This bill is about one thing – tax cuts for people and businesses struggling to rebuild in the wake of a recession. Provisions in this bill will lower taxes for every American taxpayer and small business to help them grow and create jobs. “Today the House did the right thing and stood up for those families and businesses and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to follow suit and pass this tax relief immediately.” Please click here for a comprehensive summary of the legislation.Please click here for the legislative text of the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010.Please click here for estimated revenue effects provided by the non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation. (####)
12.02.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed the Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 today, sending the bill to the White House where it is expected to be signed into law soon. The legislation dramatically improves children’s access to nutritious meals, implements new school food safety guidelines and, for the first time, establishes nutrition standards for all food sold on school grounds. The vote received bipartisan support and passed 264 to 157. “In the United States today, one in four children are at risk of hunger and one in three are overweight or obese. This is simply unacceptable,” said Rep. Levin. “This bill is the right thing to do for our children, who should live long and healthy lives. This means they need access to fresh fruit and vegetables at school, not junk food.” The legislation is supported by a broad coalition of anti-hunger, education, and public health groups including the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Heart Association, the National Parent Teacher Association, the National Council of Churches, and the Food Research and Action Center. Background on the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 Increasing Focus on Nutrition Quality and Children's Health Improves the nutritional quality of school meals by increasing the federal reimbursement rate for school lunches for districts who comply with federal nutrition standards. This additional 6 cents per meal will be the first real reimbursement rate increase in over 30 years. Removes junk food from schools by applying nutrition standards for all foods sold in schools. Promotes nutrition and wellness in child care settings by establishing nutrition requirements for Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP). Connects more children to healthy produce from local farms by helping communities establish farm to school networks, create school gardens and use more local foods in cafeterias with $40 million in mandatory funding. Strengthens local school wellness policies by updating existing requirements, increasing transparency, providing opportunities for community involvement, and compliance measurements. Supports breastfeeding for low-income women by supporting data collection in WIC and permanently authorizing performance bonuses for exemplary breastfeeding practices at WIC clinics and agencies. Improving Access Increases the number of children enrolled in the school meals programs by using Medicaid data to directly certify eligible children. This provision will connect approximately new 115,000 students to the school meals program. Enhances universal meal access for eligible children in high poverty communities by using census data to determine school wide income eligibility. Provides more meals for at-risk children nationwide by allowing CACFP providers to be reimbursed for meals provided to low-income children after school. This provision will provide an additional 21 million meals annually. Provides funding for innovative state and local projects to address childhood hunger and promote food security for low-income children. Improving Program Management & Program Integrity Supports schools' food service budgets by ensuring charges to school foodservice accounts are only for allowable expenses. Supports a skilled workforce by establishing professional standards and training opportunities for school food service providers. Streamlines program administration by giving CACFP providers greater flexibility with their administrative funds and eliminating duplicative paperwork requirements and wasteful monitoring practices. Increases efficiency and modernizes the WIC program by transitioning to an electronic benefit program. Improves food safety requirements for school meals by improving recall procedures and extending existing HACCP requirements to all places where school meals are prepared or served. Fully Paid For -- At No Cost to Taxpayers Saves $1 billion over 10 years by extending a provision that allows the Secretary of Agriculture to count commodities purchased for market stabilization toward the required level of federal support (in the form of commodity foods) for the National School Lunch Program. Saves approximately $1.3 billion over 10 years by restructuring nutrition education in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) into a new grant program that distributes Federal funds by formula to the States. Saves approximately $2.2 billion over 10 years by eliminating a temporary SNAP benefit increase provided by The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). (####)
12.01.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) today introduced H.R. 6467, the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010. Provisions in H.R. 6467 would extend critical, expiring tax relief targeted to middle-class families. The House of Representatives is expected to vote on the provisions as early as tomorrow. “These tax cuts offer critical relief to middle-class families looking to rebuild their economic security as our nation continues to recover from the recession,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “Provisions in this bill represent a view that Democrats and Republicans share – we must give these middle-class families certainty by extending this expiring relief. We must not let Congressional Republicans hold these families hostage while they insist on extending expensive tax cuts for the wealthiest few. “So let us stand up and vote now to extend middle class tax cuts, extend AMT relief, extend the child tax credit and marriage penalty relief, extend the EITC, and extend critical education incentives to help more families afford higher education for their children.” Please click here for a comprehensive summary of the legislation.Please click here for the legislative text of H.R. 6467.Please click here for estimated revenue effects provided by the non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation. (####)
11.24.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Representatives Sander Levin (D-MI), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) and Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and Tom Harkin (D-IA) today sent letters to Commissioner Douglas Shulman of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) urging him to reverse a ruling that denies equipment used to help women breast feed as a health care expense-- excluding them from coverage under flexible health spending accounts and making them non-deductible on tax returns.Reps. Levin and Maloney were joined by 32 other House members; 9 other Senators joined Sens. Merkley and Harkin. “The decision by the IRS is at odds with the growing body of medical evidence showing that breastfeeding has proven health benefits for both mothers and babies,” the lawmakers wrote. “Extensive medical research has demonstrated that breast milk goes beyond nutrition and contains antibodies, anti-infective agents, and immunoglobulins that prevent disease…. [C]hildren who are breastfed have decreased risk of asthma and other respiratory illnesses, bacterial and viral infections, ear infections, jaundice, leukemia, type 1 diabetes, obesity, among other ailments.” “Scientific evidence demonstrates that breast milk, like vaccines, improves an infant’s health. Government policies should support women who are nursing their babies by removing existing barriers in our tax code,” Rep. Levin said. "The IRS simply must join the modern age. If the IRS allows a deduction for the installation of artificial turf for asthma sufferers, then it ought to allow a deduction for breastfeeding supplies and equipment-- because breastfeeding has been shown to help reduce the incidence of asthma," Rep. Maloney said. “The evidence is clear: numerous studies have shown that breastfeeding contributes to the health of both infants and mothers. Making breastfeeding equipment tax deductible should be a no-brainer for the IRS,” Merkley said. “By making it easier for nursing mothers to breastfeed, this common-sense tweak to the tax code will help save money and save lives.” “We have long known the benefits of breastfeeding -- for mothers, babies and society as a whole,” said Harkin. “So it makes little sense that new mothers who only want to provide the best for their children face an additional burden with the high cost of breast pumps and related supplies. This adjustment would represent a common-sense change, removing barriers to breastfeeding, while increasing the health of infants and babies.” ### Background. A tax ruling by the IRS last year disallowed breast pumps and other breastfeeding supplies as medical deductions, thus also excluding them as permissable expenses under flexible health spending accounts. Such accounts have grown in popularity in recent years, partly as a way to help rein in health care costs. Coverage of the IRS/breastfeeding issue in the New York Times is here. Rep. Maloney and Sen. Merkley secured a provision in health care reforms passed earlier this year that employers of hourly workers are be required to provide breastfeeding employees with “reasonable break time” and a private, non-bathroom place to express breast milk during the workday, up until the child’s first birthday. Breastfeeding is recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics and the World Health Organization for all children under six months. Twenty-four states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have laws related to breastfeeding in the workplace; fully 43 states and the District of Columbia and the Virgin Islands have laws which allow women to breastfeed in any public or private location. View the list and more at the National Conference of State Legislatures: https://www.ncsl.org/IssuesResearch/Health/BreastfeedingLaws/tabid/14389/Default.aspx (####)
11.22.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Subcommittee on Health Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA), today praised the implementation of the "medical loss ratio" consumer protection in the health reform law. This provision calls for health insurers to spend at least 80 cents of every premium dollar on medical care. Those insurers that spend less on medical care will be required to issue rebates to policyholders. “Today’s announcement is yet another example of how health reform is putting the consumer first and guaranteeing that Americans will get the full value of their premium dollar,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). "The new medical loss ratio standard will help consumers get better value for their health insurance -- ensuring that at least 80 cents of every patients' premium dollar is spent on medical care,” said Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA). “This important consumer protection is another example of how health reform will help consumers even before full implementation of the law in 2014." Currently, in the individual market: Over 20 percent of consumers are in plans that spend more than 30 cents of every premium dollar on administrative costs; An additional 25 percent of consumers are in plans that spend between 25 and 30 cents of every premium dollar on administrative costs. Once this consumer protection takes effect: Up to 74.8 million insured Americans will be protected from excessive spending on profits, CEO bonuses, and bureaucracy; Up to nine million Americans may be eligible for rebates starting in 2012, worth up to $1.4 billion; These rebates could average as much as $164 per person. Chairman Stark continued, "By pledging to repeal health reform, House Republicans would eliminate this important protection and allow insurance companies to continue unlimited spending on CEO bonuses, profits and lobbying -- and less on patients' health care. The Republican response to today's announcement will be telling. Will they stand with working families or the health insurance industry?" (####)
11.18.2010	(Washington D.C.)- House Republicans today blocked passage of legislation that would help millions of unemployed workers make ends meet this holiday season. H.R. 6419, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Continuation Act would extend Federal unemployment insurance (UI) programs for three months preventing approximately two million unemployed workers from losing their benefits by the end of the year. “I don't see how Republicans can go home for Thanksgiving knowing that, because they blocked this bill, hundreds of thousands of people may not have a turkey on their table,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “Ensuring that millions of Americans looking for work receive the benefits they depend on to put food on the table should be a bipartisan effort. I wonder, if the two million people who are going to lose their benefits by the end of the year were brought to the House Floor, would anyone look them in the face and vote no? We will continue fighting on behalf of these unemployed Americans when Congress returns.” The temporary Federal unemployment benefits programs will start phasing out at the end of November should Congress fail to extend them. This means that even individuals exhausting the six months of regular, State-provided unemployment benefits after Thanksgiving will become ineligible for Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC). “The experts agree—two out of every three people who get unemployment benefits are middle class,” said Subcommittee on Income Security and Family Support Chairman Jim McDermott (D-WA). “While the Republicans don’t mind bankrupting the country to give $700 Billion in unpaid tax cuts to the rich with one hand, the Republicans are using the other hand to push unemployed middle class Americans out of their homes, to prevent them from having food on their table, and to keep their children from being properly clothed.” Key Facts: H.R. 6419 would extend Federal UI programs through February 28, 2011, preventing two million unemployed workers from losing their benefits by the end of the year and over another two million by February. Consistent with past Democratic and Republican Congresses, the bill is considered emergency spending and is estimated to cost $12.5 billion. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that because UI benefits increase consumer demand and spending, while preventing people from falling out of the labor market, “the extensions of unemployment insurance benefits in the past few years increased both employment and participation in the labor force over what they would otherwise have been in 2009.” A September Census Bureau report found that UI benefits prevented 3.3 million Americans from falling into poverty. This week the Wall Street Journal quoted an estimate suggesting that allowing the extensions to expire would cut economic growth by half a percentage point. Click here for the legislative text of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Continuation Act.Click here for a State-by-State chart on the estimated number of claimants losing benefits through January 1, 2011, if Congress fails to act.Click here for the CBO table.Click here for additional information on unemployment insurance. (####)
11.17.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee Chairman Jim McDermott (D-WA) today introduced the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Continuation Act. The legislation would extend Federal unemployment insurance (UI) programs for three months (through February 28, 2011) preventing approximately two million unemployed workers from losing their benefits by the end of the year and over another two million by the end of February. “Without quick action, the last economic lifeline for two million Americans will be cut off during the holidays,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “Terminating this emergency unemployment assistance will not only devastate families, but it also will hurt the entire economy by depressing consumer confidence and demand. We simply cannot afford to conclude this Congress without responding to those Americans who have been most hurt by the recession.” The temporary Federal unemployment benefits programs will start phasing out at the end of November should Congress fail to extend them. This means that even individuals exhausting the six months of regular, State-provided unemployment benefits after Thanksgiving will become ineligible for Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC). “The unemployed in this country face a grim holiday season if we don’t act quickly,” said Subcommittee on Income Security and Family Support Chairman Jim McDermott (D-WA). “In 75 years we have never cut federal unemployment benefits when the unemployment rate has been this high. We cannot allow benefits to expire at a time when millions of Americans are just trying to put food on the table.” In a report released today, the nonpartisan, independent Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that because UI benefits increase consumer demand and spending, while preventing people from falling out of the labor market, “the extensions of unemployment insurance benefits in the past few years increased both employment and participation in the labor force over what they would otherwise have been in 2009.” In addition, a September Census Bureau report found that UI benefits prevented 3.3 million Americans from falling into poverty. Furthermore, yesterday’s Wall Street Journal quotes an estimate suggesting that allowing the extensions to expire would cut economic growth by half a percentage point. Click here for the legislative text of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Continuation Act. Click here for a State-by-State chart on the estimated number of claimants losing benefits through January 1, 2011, if Congress fails to act. Click here for additional information on unemployment insurance. (####)
11.11.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI) issued the following joint statement on trade negotiations between the U.S. and South Korea: “Further negotiations will succeed only if South Korea adopts concrete steps to open its market to U.S. exports. “While there are other unresolved issues, nowhere is this more evident than in the dangerously lopsided trade in automotive vehicles. In 2009 alone, South Korea exported more than 476,000 autos to the U.S. while fewer than 6,000 U.S. vehicles managed to get through Korean trade barriers. “There is a basic principle at stake with a very practical impact on American jobs. When U.S. industry has the ability to compete, we can succeed. But we must insist on open, reliable access to another country’s market, as our market is open to their goods. It was essential for our government today to deliver a strong message by insisting on a two-way street for trade with South Korea.” (####)
10.15.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) released the following statement today following the announcement by U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk that the U.S. will launch a Section 301 investigation into China’s unfair trade practices in the green technology sector: “The Obama Administration's quick decision to move forward on unfair Chinese trade practices in the green technology sector contained in the Steelworkers' petition is a strong signal of support for U.S. businesses and workers. China is using unfair trade practices to try to dominate the market in solar panels, wind turbines and other products in this important jobs-creating sector and those practices must be vigorously challenged. Green technology is a critical emerging sector, in which American workers, manufacturers, farmers and innovators excel. In order to thrive and take full advantage of the green technology revolution, unfair trade practices and other obstacles to fair competition must be removed. “Last month, 178 Democrats were joined by only three Republicans in sending a letter to the Administration urging USTR to take decisive action on the basis of this petition. Now that USTR has announced its intention to proceed, I hope that more Republicans will get behind this effort and ensure that the Administration has the resources it needs to challenge China's misconduct. Republicans must not let their anti-government rhetoric, which grows by the day on the campaign trail, undermine the vital role government must play in standing up for U.S. businesses and workers in the global marketplace. “Yesterday, the Department of Commerce announced that August's trade deficit with China reached a new record, underscoring the fact that China's unfair trade practices, compounded by its manipulation of its currency, are causing serious harm to U.S. workers, manufacturers, farmers, and innovators. The status quo is neither sustainable nor acceptable and that is why today's announcement is so important.” (####)
09.30.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today the House of Representatives passed critical legislation to address China’s fundamental undervaluation of its currency by a vote of 348-79. The legislation, H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, is the first of its kind to pass the House of Representatives and signals a mounting concern among U.S. lawmakers regarding China’s violation of its international obligations. “This is an important moment for this Congress and for the American people,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “China’s persistent manipulation of its currency contributes to the outsourcing of American jobs and poses a very serious problem that requires real action. Under our leadership, real action is now being taken in Congress to stand up for American workers and businesses. “China clearly has an economic strategy to bolster its businesses and workers. Our nation needs to implement an active economic strategy to enforce the rules of trade and allow our businesses and workers to compete and win in the international marketplace. This bill is consistent with America’s international obligations and is a significant step to bring about China’s compliance with theirs.” The legislation considered on the floor today reflects the text of an amendment adopted by the Committee on Ways and Means last week. Please click here to view a one-page summary of H.R. 2378 as amended. Please click here (scroll down) to view letters in support of H.R. 2378 as amended. Please click here to view a background document on the issue of China’s exchange rate policy. Please click here to view the text of Chairman Levin’s Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute, which was adopted by the full House of Representatives today. (####)
09.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today 181 Members of the House of Representatives sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging the President to address China’s unfair trade practices that benefit its green technology manufacturers to the detriment of their America competitors. In the letter, the Members express their strong concern regarding these trade practices, and urge the Administration to mobilize its resources to bring China’s predatory green technology policies to an end. Recognizing the President’s commitment to trade enforcement to date, the letter underscores the need for the Administration to redouble its efforts by taking action on the basis of the Steelworkers’ Section 301 petition and by ensuring that USTR has the resources and personnel it needs to target these practices aggressively and comprehensively. “The United States must take urgent and decisive trade enforcement action to secure a level playing field for fair competition for American worker, businesses and innovators in green technology industries,” said Chairman Levin. “China’s practices in this sector are designed to protect and promote its domestic industries at the expense of U.S. jobs, commerce and know how. These practices, combined with Chinese currency policy and other predatory practices, are already taking a heavy toll on the U.S. green economy and U.S. trade balances. We strongly support the Steelworkers Section 301 petition and urge the Administration to devote the necessary resources to USTR to address these and other unfair trade practices.” Please click here to view a signed pdf of the letter. Text of the letter to President Obama follows: September 28, 2010 The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our strong concern regarding China’s use of unfair trade practices to promote the global competitiveness of its industries. Such practices are widespread, and should be addressed in every sector in which they occur. We write today, however, with urgency about China’s use of such unfair trade practices to bolster and, in fact, globally dominate the green technology sector, and to ask that you swiftly mobilize Administration resources to address these practices. In this regard, we support the petition filed by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Services Workers International Union, AFL-CIO CLC (“Steelworkers”) under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 (“Section 301”) on September 9, 2010, and urge your Administration to take prompt action to address the practices underlying this petition. China’s proliferation of unfair trade practices continues unabated with dire consequences for U.S. workers, business and innovators. Upon entry into the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) in 2001, China agreed to remove its existing barriers to trade and to not adopt new barriers. Nearly a decade later, however, China has not followed through on many commitments, and has developed a new generation of discriminatory and unfair trade practices designed to protect and promote its domestic industries at the expense of U.S. jobs, commerce and know-how. China’s approach to green technology policy exemplifies this grim trend. Through a variety of predatory trade practices, China’s industrial policy seeks to give its manufacturers an unfair advantage in the green technology revolution and to capture this emerging sector. These practices, combined with Chinese currency policy, are already taking a heavy toll on the U.S. green economy and U.S. trade balances. The United States cannot stand on the side lines. It must take urgent and decisive enforcement action to secure a level playing field for fair competition for green technology manufacturers. The Office of the United States Trade Representative (“USTR”) has a strong enforcement record with respect to China and your Administration has taken significant action in this regard, including the China tires 421 safeguard action, as well as WTO disputes against China regarding raw materials, financial services and steel products. It is now time to redouble these efforts in two respects – to take action on the basis of the Steelworkers’ Section 301 petition and to ensure that USTR has the resources and personnel it needs to target these practices aggressively and comprehensively.As you know, the Steelworkers’ Section 301 petition describes over 80 Chinese laws, regulations and practices that cover a broad spectrum of green technologies, including – solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, hydropower, nuclear, and advanced batteries – which seek to benefit Chinese manufacturers to the detriment of their American competitors. If left unchecked, these practices will achieve their intended effect, which is to drive American manufacturers from this critical emerging sector. While USTR will need to evaluate each aspect of the petition on its merits, we call on USTR to do so with a view to examining all appropriate responses that will quickly end these unfair trade practices. In addition, we urge you to redirect existing resources and dedicate significant new resources to the China trade enforcement mission of the United States government. USTR should build on existing capacities and expand to include additional personnel with linguistic, legal, investigative, trade and country expertise to target China’s increasingly sophisticated unfair trade practices. Specifically, a dedicated China trade enforcement team should be tasked with translating relevant laws and regulations, investigating possible unfair trade practices, going to China to assist in case development, evaluating possible legal claims, and responding expeditiously with targeted action, including WTO dispute settlement where appropriate. This team should be led by USTR’s Office of the General Counsel, and work closely with USTR’s Chief Counsel for China Trade Enforcement and USTR’s China Affairs Office, as well as other relevant offices within USTR and other agencies. We look forward to working with you and to doing our part to address these concerns in order to ensure that the United States is not denied the ability to fully compete in the green technology revolution. Sincerely, Sander M Levin (####)
09.27.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced today that it will formally add the Ten Mile Drain site in St. Clair Shores to the Superfund National Priorities List (NPL). Listing on the NPL triggers a comprehensive site investigation to track down the source of the PCB contamination and provides access to federal cleanup funding. Commenting on EPA’s action to list the site on the Superfund National Priorities List, Rep. Levin said: "It is vital that we marshal additional federal efforts to locate the source of the PCBs and remove them once and for all,” said Rep. Levin. “I appreciate EPA’s past efforts to help the community address the PCB contamination in the Ten Mile Drain, and this is an important additional step.” In 2002, extremely high levels of PCBs were discovered in the Ten Mile Drain system as well as two adjacent canals in St. Clair Shores, Michigan. Following the investigation and site assessment, EPA initiated a time-critical removal of the PCBs from the Drain and the canals, which was completed in 2004. Following that initial cleanup, additional testing revealed that PCBs continued to seep into the Ten Mile Drain. As an interim step, in 2006, EPA agreed to come back to St. Clair Shores to re-clean the Drain and install a liner the most seriously contaminated section of the Ten Mile Drain. When high levels of PCBs were again detected in the Drain last fall, Rep. Sander Levin and Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow wrote to the Administrator of EPA Region 5 to urge EPA to mobilize an assessment and response team to investigate the source of the re contamination and take immediate steps to address the problem. At the lawmakers’ request, EPA returned to St. Clair Shores last March to perform additional PCB cleanup work in the Ten Mile Drain. Rep. Levin wrote to the Administrator of EPA Region 5 last year in support of the State of Michigan’s nomination of the Ten Mile Drain site to the Superfund National Priorities List. (####)
09.24.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following opening statement upon consideration of a Chairman’s Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute to H.R. 2378, legislation to address China’s fundamental undervaluation of its currency (as prepared for delivery): “The Committee will come to order for the purpose of considering an Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute to H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act. “This Committee is charged with establishing U.S. Trade policy and we all take this responsibility very seriously. “Our trade relationship with China is one of utmost importance, and today’s action comes after years of deliberation and discussion in multilateral venues. “We are here today to address one of the critical issues in our trade relationship with China, its mercantilist exchange rate policy. “Our hearings last week on this issue brought out these facts: 1.“China’s persistent manipulation of its currency is a major distortion in the international marketplace. “The Government of China has now accumulated more than $2.4 trillion in foreign assets – far greater than the reserves of any other country today and generally believed to be greater than the reserves held by any other country in history. In 2009 alone, we exported $70 billion to China, who, in turn exported $296 billion to the U.S. – a staggering $226 billion trade deficit with China alone. 2.“China’s exchange rate policy has a major impact on American businesses, and American jobs, which is what this is all about. “For years, U.S. workers, businesses and farmers have been held to a competitive disadvantage because of China’s intervention to keep the price of Chinese goods to the U.S. artificially low and of U.S produced goods to China artificially high. 3. “Efforts to date have not worked to correct the imbalances. They have basically relied on discussions between the parties. “In June (shortly before a G-20 meeting), China announced that it would allow the RMB to appreciate for the first time since the middle of 2008. Since then, however, China has allowed the RMB to appreciation less than two percent against the dollar – most of this appreciation taking place in the last two weeks. 4. “Additional measures are necessary, and that is why we are here today. 5. “The legislation before us today clarifies that countervailing duties can be imposed to offset the effects of an undervalued currency. Countervailing duties would be available to any U.S. industry that could demonstrate that it has been ‘materially injured’ by imports from the country with the undervalued currency. By doing so, the bill will help to provide meaningful relief to those who are harmed by China’s exchange rate policy. 6. “The Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute, modifies the original legislation introduced by Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tim Murphy (R-PA) to make it fully consistent with World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. “WTO rules allow for the application of countervailing duties to offset or neutralize export subsidies. To date, Commerce has refused to find currency manipulation a countervailable export subsidy, for the sole reason that non-exporters (e.g., U.S. tourists in China) benefit from the undervalued currency as well. This is more restrictive and is at odds with WTO Appellate Body rulings that a subsidy can be considered an export subsidy even if it is available in some circumstances that do not involve export. “Importantly, the bill, as amended, preserves Commerce’s authority – and responsibility – to consider each case on its facts and make a determination as to whether all the necessary legal elements of an export subsidy are met. “ This bill is being advanced in the absence of effective action on a multilateral basis, and the kind of multilateral structure needed to address, comprehensively, major currency imbalances. “Some argue against action for fear of retaliation by China. Such retaliation itself would be inconsistent with the rules of the WTO. WTO inconsistent retaliation is not a reason to delay pursuit of WTO consistent action. To those who would argue against this legislation because of a fear of retaliation: Do you believe we should remain silent with respect to China’s ‘indigenous innovation’ measures, or to its policies pertaining to intellectual property rights (IPR)? “To those who would raise the specter of ‘protectionism,’ this legislation is indeed the opposite. Dr. Fred Bergsten testified at the first Ways and Means hearing that China’s currency policy is the most protectionist measure today in the global economy – and this bill is one antidote to remedy the effects of China’s protectionist measure. “The legislation to be considered today builds off the basic purpose of the bipartisan Ryan-Murphy bill (cosponsored by 107 Democrats and 46 Republicans), carefully brings about compliance with our international obligations, provides enough flexibility in the implementation and enforcement of the bill and gives the Administration further impetus to pursue the issue in the international community. “At the outset of our hearings I said that the status quo was unacceptable and unsustainable. This is a responsible and necessary step toward addressing the persistent imbalance created by China’s undervalued currency. “I now yield to Ranking Member Camp for any remarks he may wish to make.” (####)
09.24.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today the House Committee on Ways and Means approved critical legislation to address China’s fundamental undervaluation of its currency. The Committee adopted an Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute to H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, offered by Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI), who led the body in pressing for passage of this bill to hold China accountable and enforce the rules of international trade. “Today’s passage signals an important advance in U.S. trade policy,” said Chairman Levin. “By taking a stand today, this Committee takes the lead in standing up for American workers and businesses, and holding China accountable for the manipulation of its currency. The measures included in this bill provide the Administration with additional tools for enforcing the rules of trade and are consistent with our WTO obligations. It will also bolster the Administration’s efforts to bring about a multilateral framework for addressing this global issue. I look forward to working with my colleagues to bring this measure before the House for a vote.” Please click here to view a one-page summary of H.R. 2378 as amended. Please click here (scroll down) to view letters in support of H.R. 2378 as amended. Please click here to view a background document on the issue of China’s exchange rate policy. Please click here to view the text of the Chairman’s Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute. (####)
09.23.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today the House of Representatives approved H.R. 5297, the Small Business Lending Fund Act of 2010, by a vote of 237-187. The legislation would provide much-needed tax relief and enhanced lending opportunities for small businesses to help them grow and create new jobs. With passage by the House, H.R. 5297 will now proceed to President Obama’s desk for signature into law. “This bill provides vital access to capital and tax relief to America’s small businesses to encourage them to invest and hire new workers,” said Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “I continue to hear from small firms in Michigan who are struggling to access the credit they need to maintain and grown their business. It is important that this bill includes funding for states to operate credit support programs. In Michigan, programs like the MEDC’s Supplier Diversification Fund have proven to be successful in helping manufacturers that have been hard hit by this recession qualify for loans. With these additional resources, these successful programs will be able to assist even more businesses.” H.R. 5297 creates a $30 billion small business lending fund to help community banks make small business loans, provides $1.5 billion to states to operate credit support programs (a provision introduced by Rep. Levin and other Members of the Michigan Congressional delegation), enhances Small Business Administration lending programs, and provides more than $12 billion in tax relief and incentives for small businesses to help them invest and hire. Please click here for additional information on the provisions included in H.R. 5297. (####)
09.23.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA), today celebrated the six-month anniversary of the health reform bill being signed into law. Today, a number of important consumer provisions – a "Patient’s Bill of Rights" – go into effect. “For too long insurance companies have had control over patients’ health and pocketbooks, many times leaving them without health coverage when they need it most,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The Patient’s Bill of Rights hands the reins back to American families and their physicians. The provisions implemented today put an end to the most egregious insurance company abuses while building on the Affordable Care Act policies to provide affordable health coverage to more Americans.” "Beginning today, Americans across the country will start to benefit from the consumer protections in the health reform law," said Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA). "These protections stop the worst discriminatory policies by insurance companies, and increase people's security in their health plans. The Republican plan to repeal is nothing more than a pledge to health insurance companies, not the American people." Several important provisions take effect for plan years starting on or after today. If you are privately-insured: • Your health coverage cannot be arbitrarily cancelled if you become sick; • Your child cannot be denied coverage due to a pre-existing condition; • Your child up to age 26 can stay on your health plan; • Your health plan cannot put a lifetime limit on your health coverage; • Your health plan's annual limits are phased out over three years. If you are purchasing a new plan, you will have the following additional protections: • You have the right to vital preventive services without deductible or co-payments; • You have the right to both an internal and external appeal; • You have the right to choose your own doctor; • You have the right to access to out-of-network emergency room care at in-network cost-sharing rates. (####)
09.22.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today in conjunction with an announcement that the Committee will meet at 9:30 AM on Friday, September 24, 2010 to consider a Chairman’s Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute to H.R. 2378, legislation to address China’s fundamental undervaluation of its currency: “At the two hearings held by the Ways and Means Committee last week, as reinforced at the Senate hearing, these critical points were very clear: 1. “China’s mercantilist exchange rate policy places a drag on U.S. economic growth and job creation. It is a major distortion in the international marketplace. For years, U.S. workers, businesses and farmers have been held to a competitive disadvantage because of China’s intervention to keep the price of Chinese goods to the U.S. artificially low and of U.S produced goods to China artificially high. 2. “Efforts to date have not worked to correct the imbalances. They have basically relied on discussions between the parties. Their failure to be effective was illustrated by the rationale given by Secretary Geithner for why China will not be designated as a manipulator in the forthcoming October 15 currency report—the “act of designating alone only requires that we go talk….and issuing a report that requires us to consult accomplishes nothing”. 3. “Additional measures are necessary.“The legislation the Ways and Means Committee will consider on Friday clarifies that countervailing duties can be imposed to offset the effects of an undervalued currency. Countervailing duties would be available to any U.S. industry that could demonstrate that it has been ‘materially injured’ by imports from the country with the undervalued currency. By doing so, the bill will help to provide meaningful relief to those who are harmed by China’s exchange rate policy. “The bill, as considered by the Ways and Means Committee, will modify the original legislation introduced by Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tim Murphy (R-PA) to make it fully consistent with World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. WTO rules allow for the application of countervailing duties to offset or neutralize export subsidies. To date, Commerce has refused to find currency manipulation a countervailable export subsidy, for the sole reason that non-exporters (e.g., U.S. tourists in China) benefit from the undervalued currency as well. Commerce’s policy is more restrictive than WTO rules, and is at odds with WTO Appellate Body rulings that a subsidy can be considered an export subsidy even if it is available in some circumstances that do not involve export. The revised bill overrides existing Commerce practice by precluding Commerce from dismissing a claim for the sole reason that the subsidy is available in circumstances not involving export; instead, Commerce will be required to consider all facts before it. Importantly, the bill, as amended, preserves Commerce’s authority – and responsibility – to consider each case on its facts and make a determination as to whether all the necessary legal elements of an export subsidy are met. “This bill is being advanced in the absence of effective action on a multilateral basis.I have joined with others to urge such action—so far to no avail. On three different occasions, beginning six years ago, we filed a petition with the Bush Administration that they seek a remedy under the WTO agreements but each time the request was summarily dismissed. Hopefully the concrete step of this bill can spur efforts leading to the kind of multilateral structure needed to address major currency imbalances. “Some argue against action, whether unilateral or multilateral, for fear of retaliation by China. Such retaliation itself would be inconsistent with the rules of the WTO. WTO inconsistent retaliation is not a reason to delay pursuit of WTO consistent action. To those who would argue against this legislation because of a fear of retaliation: Do you believe we should remain silent with respect to China’s ‘indigenous innovation’ measures, or to its policies pertaining to intellectual property rights (IPR)? “To those who would raise the specter of ‘protectionism,’ this legislation is indeed the opposite. Dr. Fred Bergsten testified at the first Ways and Means hearing that China’s currency policy is the most protectionist measure today in the global economy – and this bill is one antidote to remedy the effects of China’s protectionist measure. “In 1999, I supported China’s entry into the WTO because of the importance of the rule of law in international trade and competition and of bringing China into a global economic structure in a way which would hold China accountable. This bill is consistent with the goals set forth under China’s accession to the WTO and is in the best interest of the U.S. and all trading partners who have been placed at a competitive disadvantage due to China’s undervalued currency. “As Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, I have heard from scores of my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans alike, who have urged action to address China’s currency manipulation. Most recently, I received a letter signed by 101 of my colleagues, 30 of whom are Republicans, urging the Committee to consider and pass bipartisan legislation introduced by Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tim Murphy (R-PA). The legislation to be considered by the Ways and Means Committee on Friday builds off the basic purpose of the Ryan-Murphy bill, carefully brings about compliance with our international obligations, provides enough flexibility in the implementation and enforcement of the bill and gives the Administration further impetus to pursue the issue in the international community. This is a responsible and necessary step toward addressing the persistent imbalance created by China’s undervalued currency. “At the outset of our hearings I said that the status quo was unacceptable and unsustainable. Clearly, China has a strategy as to how it competes in an increasingly globalized economic world. The American people want the assurance that our nation has a strategy. Most know that means ready acceptance that economic globalization is here to stay and that it can be beneficial if our nation has a strategy. That strategy must include many facets, not just one. But our citizens sense that for us to compete effectively it cannot include acceptance of a structure, or the lack of one, that allows the important nation of China to artificially tilt the playing field by 15 to 30 percent through how it manipulates its currency.” (####)
09.21.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today in conjunction with an announcement that the Committee will meet at 9:30 AM on Friday, September 24, 2010 to consider a Chairman’s Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute to H.R. 2378, legislation to address China’s fundamental undervaluation of its currency: “At the two hearings held by the Ways and Means Committee last week, as reinforced at the Senate hearing, these critical points were very clear: 1. “China’s mercantilist exchange rate policy places a drag on U.S. economic growth and job creation. It is a major distortion in the international marketplace. For years, U.S. workers, businesses and farmers have been held to a competitive disadvantage because of China’s intervention to keep the price of Chinese goods to the U.S. artificially low and of U.S produced goods to China artificially high. 2. “Efforts to date have not worked to correct the imbalances. They have basically relied on discussions between the parties. Their failure to be effective was illustrated by the rationale given by Secretary Geithner for why China will not be designated as a manipulator in the forthcoming October 15 currency report—the “act of designating alone only requires that we go talk….and issuing a report that requires us to consult accomplishes nothing”. 3. “Additional measures are necessary.“The legislation the Ways and Means Committee will consider on Friday clarifies that countervailing duties can be imposed to offset the effects of an undervalued currency. Countervailing duties would be available to any U.S. industry that could demonstrate that it has been ‘materially injured’ by imports from the country with the undervalued currency. By doing so, the bill will help to provide meaningful relief to those who are harmed by China’s exchange rate policy. “The bill, as considered by the Ways and Means Committee, will modify the original legislation introduced by Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tim Murphy (R-PA) to make it fully consistent with World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. WTO rules allow for the application of countervailing duties to offset or neutralize export subsidies. To date, Commerce has refused to find currency manipulation a countervailable export subsidy, for the sole reason that non-exporters (e.g., U.S. tourists in China) benefit from the undervalued currency as well. Commerce’s policy is more restrictive than WTO rules, and is at odds with WTO Appellate Body rulings that a subsidy can be considered an export subsidy even if it is available in some circumstances that do not involve export. The revised bill overrides existing Commerce practice by precluding Commerce from dismissing a claim for the sole reason that the subsidy is available in circumstances not involving export; instead, Commerce will be required to consider all facts before it. Importantly, the bill, as amended, preserves Commerce’s authority – and responsibility – to consider each case on its facts and make a determination as to whether all the necessary legal elements of an export subsidy are met. “This bill is being advanced in the absence of effective action on a multilateral basis.I have joined with others to urge such action—so far to no avail. On three different occasions, beginning six years ago, we filed a petition with the Bush Administration that they seek a remedy under the WTO agreements but each time the request was summarily dismissed. Hopefully the concrete step of this bill can spur efforts leading to the kind of multilateral structure needed to address major currency imbalances. “Some argue against action, whether unilateral or multilateral, for fear of retaliation by China. Such retaliation itself would be inconsistent with the rules of the WTO. WTO inconsistent retaliation is not a reason to delay pursuit of WTO consistent action. To those who would argue against this legislation because of a fear of retaliation: Do you believe we should remain silent with respect to China’s ‘indigenous innovation’ measures, or to its policies pertaining to intellectual property rights (IPR)? “To those who would raise the specter of ‘protectionism,’ this legislation is indeed the opposite. Dr. Fred Bergsten testified at the first Ways and Means hearing that China’s currency policy is the most protectionist measure today in the global economy – and this bill is one antidote to remedy the effects of China’s protectionist measure. “In 1999, I supported China’s entry into the WTO because of the importance of the rule of law in international trade and competition and of bringing China into a global economic structure in a way which would hold China accountable. This bill is consistent with the goals set forth under China’s accession to the WTO and is in the best interest of the U.S. and all trading partners who have been placed at a competitive disadvantage due to China’s undervalued currency. “As Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, I have heard from scores of my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans alike, who have urged action to address China’s currency manipulation. Most recently, I received a letter signed by 101 of my colleagues, 30 of whom are Republicans, urging the Committee to consider and pass bipartisan legislation introduced by Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tim Murphy (R-PA). The legislation to be considered by the Ways and Means Committee on Friday builds off the basic purpose of the Ryan-Murphy bill, carefully brings about compliance with our international obligations, provides enough flexibility in the implementation and enforcement of the bill and gives the Administration further impetus to pursue the issue in the international community. This is a responsible and necessary step toward addressing the persistent imbalance created by China’s undervalued currency. “At the outset of our hearings I said that the status quo was unacceptable and unsustainable. Clearly, China has a strategy as to how it competes in an increasingly globalized economic world. The American people want the assurance that our nation has a strategy. Most know that means ready acceptance that economic globalization is here to stay and that it can be beneficial if our nation has a strategy. That strategy must include many facets, not just one. But our citizens sense that for us to compete effectively it cannot include acceptance of a structure, or the lack of one, that allows the important nation of China to artificially tilt the playing field by 15 to 30 percent through how it manipulates its currency.” (####)
09.15.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following opening statement at today’s full Committee hearing on China’s exchange rate policy: “China’s exchange rate policy is one of China’s many mercantilist policies that distorts trade and investment flows and places a drag on U.S. economic growth and job creation. This Committee examined many of those policies – such as China’s ‘indigenous innovation’ program and its trade-distorting subsidies, such as those in the renewable energy sector -- at a recent hearing in June. “These policies, combined, undoubtedly contribute to our staggering trade deficit with China, which, prior to the global financial crisis, had reached $268 billion in 2008 – 33 percent of our total merchandise trade deficit. Remarkably, that 33 percent share grew to 45 percent in 2009. “Recent reports suggest that the Government of China may be mounting an even more aggressive campaign to capture key industries of the future, such as green technologies, and all the jobs that go along with them. All of this, of course, is an outgrowth of a model of what the Chinese call ‘state capitalism’ - which is really more about “state” control than it is about anything we would recognize as ‘capitalism.’ For example, according to a recent report, a group of 16 big state-owned companies have formed an alliance to do research and development, and create product standards, for electric and hybrid vehicles. “The headline of a recent and detailed New York Times article says it all: On Clean Energy, China Skirts Rules. That article noted that, in one particular case, a municipal government transferred to one solar panel company 22 acres of valuable urban land at a ‘bargain-basement price.’ On top of that, a state-owned bank is preparing to lend to the company at a low interest rate, while the provincial government is sweetening the deal further by reimbursing the company for most of the interest payments. “Some of these issues are covered in the recent ‘section 301’ petition that addresses a broad array of China’s mercantilist policies relating to these ‘green’ technologies. I urge the Administration to take expeditious and comprehensive action on the basis of the practices identified in the petition. “This hearing, and our hearing tomorrow with Secretary Geithner, confronts the need to address directly China’s exchange rate policy and its effect on American businesses and workers - that means jobs - and various options for doing so. “As mentioned earlier, there are many issues we face with China. China’s exchange rate policy is one of the most commercially significant. Some economists have estimated that addressing this single issue alone could add half a percentage point to U.S. GDP, could generate about one million U.S. jobs, and could reduce the U.S. trade deficit by $100 billion to $150 billion. “It is also important to add a word about our trade deficits today. Recent data indicates that an increase in the U.S. trade deficit in the second quarter of 2010 deducted 3.4 percentage points from GDP growth – the largest subtraction since 1947. And a former ITC economist recently estimated that the U.S. trade deficit with China will reduce U.S. GDP in 2010 by more than $400 billion, or nearly three percent. Over the past decade, the United States has experienced its largest trade deficits in our history – but those deficits in former years received little attention or action. “And the issue is not peculiar to the United States: China over the past several years has experienced unprecedented global trade surpluses, surpluses that are likely to persist – and even to grow – in the future in the absence of corrective action. “There are several options to address this important issue. “One option would be to redouble our efforts to address the issue through multilateral dialogue and negotiations. “I believe a multilateral approach would be the most likely to yield the broadest results. Many nations are harmed by mercantilist exchange rate policies, not only the United States, and it is important to hear the voice of those other nations.“And China is not the only country with a predatory exchange rate policy. In fact, according to press reports this morning, Japan today intervened in the currency markets for the first time since 2004. (This comes at the same time that the Government of Japan has become increasingly critical of China’s exchange rate policy – questioning China’s intentions in purchasing Japanese Government Bonds.) The Associated Press reports that, ‘after the Bank of Japan sold yen on Wednesday morning, the dollar jumped above 85 yen from its earlier low of 82.87 yen.’ The report also notes that ‘Toyota estimates that every 1-yen climb versus the dollar saps 30 billion yen ($351 million) from Toyota’s earnings’ because a strong yen makes Japanese automakers less competitive against U.S. and other automakers. This is a deeply disturbing development, and we will follow it closely.“The problem is the lack of significant, concrete results from multilateral dialogue and negotiations. The IMF has repeatedly failed to enforce rules against currency manipulation – rules that are central to its very mandate. And, while some progress has been made to place ‘global imbalances’ on the agenda of the G-20 - thanks largely to this Administration - today there does not appear to be anything remotely approaching an international agreement to end predatory exchange rate policies. “While international pressure in advance of the most recent G-20 meeting apparently caused China to announce that it would allow greater flexibility, the RMB has appreciated by only about one percent in the past three months. “A second option, ‘multilateral’ in nature, is to file a WTO case. Many of us in Congress believe that China’s exchange rate policy violates China’s WTO commitments. Many of us filed petitions in 2004, 2005, and 2007, calling for the filing of a WTO case. The last Administration rejected all three petitions almost immediately after they were filed. Congress cannot file such a case on behalf of our country. “A third option is legislation clarifying that U.S. trade remedy laws can be applied to address undervalued currencies. And, in my view, just as I believe China’s policy can be successfully challenged as a prohibited export subsidy under WTO rules, I believe the application of ‘countervailing duties’ would be a WTO-consistent response. “In any event, and I emphasize this, the status quo with currency imbalances is unacceptable and unsustainable. “Today we will hear testimony about specific administrative and legislative actions. In the best traditions of this Committee, we will be able to listen to the testimony and evaluate the strengths and weaknesses in the testimony and proposals of each of the witnesses, today and tomorrow. “With this nation, its businesses and workers facing an historic recession, it is our obligation on this Committee to search vigorously and constructively for answers on all of the significant issues impacting our economic well-being. I hope we can meet this challenge in these hearings, no matter how difficult. “Fortunately, we have with us today a number of witnesses that can help shed light on these issues, and will hear tomorrow from Secretary Geithner. I look forward to the testimony.” (####)
08.31.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today following an announcement by the Department of Commerce regarding countervailing duty petitions filed by U.S. companies and workers: “China’s currency has not appreciated significantly since China announced a change in its exchange rate policy in June. China’s undervalued currency contributes to the U.S. trade deficit, which is a drag on U.S. economic growth and job creation. The trade deficit took 3.4 percentage points off GDP growth in the 2nd quarter of 2010, the most since 1947. “Years of high-level dialogue with China have failed to resolve this issue. And today, the Department of Commerce found that two petitions before it failed to allege facts sufficient to initiate an investigation on whether China’s currency manipulation is a countervailable subsidy. It is important to note that Commerce did not find that currency manipulation cannot be addressed as a countervailable subsidy. That alternative will be reviewed at the Ways and Means Committee hearing on China’s exchange rate policy on September 15, as will other courses of action.” (####)
08.31.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) and Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA), praised today's announcement that nearly 2,000 employers have already signed up and been approved for the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program in the health reform law. “The goal of Health care reform is to make insurance affordable and accessible, including by helping employers currently offering insurance,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “In recent years economic pressures and escalating health care costs have made it increasingly difficult for employers to maintain health coverage for retirees not yet eligible for Medicare. I am pleased that, because of health reform, nearly 2,000 small businesses, unions, or fortune 500 companies who provide early retiree health coverage will receive assistance to ensure that retired workers have health insurance for their critical health needs.” "As employers continue to drop retiree health benefits, early retirees have become extremely vulnerable to losing their insurance. At the same time, these older Americans are the least likely to find affordable coverage in the individual market,” said Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA). "Health reform provides new financial assistance to employers who maintain their retiree health benefits. Two thousand employers have already signed up to obtain this help. This early retiree assistance program is yet another way that health reform is making people's health coverage more secure now." The Affordable Care Act created the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program to provide financial assistance to employers to help them continue coverage for early retirees. Employers who are approved to participate in the program receive reinsurance for the claims of high-cost retirees and their families. These funds can be used to provide relief to retirees, workers and their families, in the form of lower premiums and cost sharing. For more information, including a list of employers who have been approved for this program, please visit: https://go.usa.gov/c6b . (####)
08.31.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The White House Office of National Drug Control Policy announced today that the Madison Heights Community Family Coalition and the Southeast Oakland Coalition are both the recipients of $125,000 Drug Free Community (DFC) grants for their efforts to facilitate active citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. “DFC grants have shown their ability to help communities lower their instances of youth drug and alcohol abuse,” said Rep. Levin. “The coalitions awarded today have demonstrated leadership in bringing together schools, local governments, and police departments to engage the community on drug prevention efforts. These grants will strengthen their efforts.” “We have been working diligently to bring substance abuse awareness to the forefront of our community, and this money will greatly enhance that effort,” said Richard Lewis, Executive Director of the Madison Heights Community Family Coalition. “We’re very excited for the opportunities of the Drug Free Communities Support Program,” said Donnis Reese, Executive Director of the Southeast Oakland Coalition. “Other communities have benefitted from the DFC expertise and resources to implement strategies that reduce alcohol and illicit drug use. Because of our partners within the geography of Ferndale School District, we now have resources to do the same.” To qualify for the grants, awardees must have at least a six-month history of working together on substance abuse reduction initiatives, have representation from 12 specific sectors of the community, develop a long–term plan to reduce substance abuse, and participate in a national evaluation of the DFC program. The DFC program provides matching grants of up to $625,000 over five years. In addition to the grants awarded to the Madison Heights and Southeast Oakland Coalitions, continuation grants were awarded to the Tri-Community Coalition (Berkley, Huntington Woods, and City of Oak Park) and the Chippewa Valley Coalition for Youth and Families. The awards, which continue previously awarded DFC grants, were in the amounts of $100,000 and $125,000 respectively. The DFC program was created by the Drug Free Communities Act of 1997 which was co-authored by Congressman Levin and Former-Congressman Rob Portman. Congressman Levin is a principal advocate for the program in Congress, leading the fight to improve funding levels since the program’s creation. Since its inception, the DFC program has awarded funding to support the drug prevention work of approximately 1,700 coalitions. (####)
08.18.2010	(Roseville, M.I.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding South Korean Ambassador Han’s visit to Detroit and the U.S.-South Korean Free Trade Agreement. “In its current form, the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (FTA) is fundamentally flawed. The FTA as negotiated by the Bush Administration does not ensure a change in the status quo necessary to bring about meaningful market access and two-way trade in autos and other manufactured goods. This flaw was made clear to the Bush Administration and they rejected a bipartisan congressional proposal to address the flaws during negotiations. “South Korea has historically relied on unfair taxes, regulations and other measures to shut out foreign automobile imports. As a result, the foreign market share of the Korean auto market was less than 5 percent in 2009. According to the American Automobile Policy Council, in 2009, the U.S. exported 5,878 autos to Korea and Korea exported 476,833 autos to the United States. U.S. Department of Commerce data indicate that autos and auto parts accounted for 74 percent of the $10.6 billion U.S. trade deficit with South Korea. “As Ambassador Han visits Detroit, I expect he will hear automakers reiterate that one-way trade is unacceptable and unless the outstanding market access issues are addressed with enforceable commitments, the trade agreement will continue to be rejected. “U.S. autos have shown in recent months that they are fully competitive; it is the job of the U.S. government to ensure that the rules of trade are fair and our companies are not discriminated against in other markets. The Korean market has been a shining example of unfair and one-way trade, and the trade agreement must address this problem head on, as I have made clear from the onset.” (####)
08.18.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Commerce announced today that Michigan State University will be awarded $6,056,819 to upgrade and establish public computer centers throughout south and central Michigan at colleges, local libraries, and other public locations. Royal Oak Township Library will receive eight new broadband computer work stations as part of the Recovery Act grant, awarded through the Broadband Technology Opportunities Program. “The Michigan State project supports libraries, provides education, increases broadband penetration in Michigan, and bolsters the economic competitiveness of our state at a critical time,” said Rep. Levin. “I am looking forward to the addition of the new broadband computer work stations in our library,” said William Morgan, Royal Oak Township Supervisor. “They will be a great resource to the youth and citizens of Royal Oak Township.” The Recovery Act made available $7.2 billion to the Commerce Department’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and the Department of Agriculture’s Rural Utilities Service to fund projects that will expand access to and adoption of broadband services. NTIA is utilizing approximately $4 billion of that funding for the Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP), which provides grants to support the deployment of broadband infrastructure, enhance and expand public computer centers, and encourage sustainable adoption of broadband service. Non-traditional education methods are in ever increasing demand, especially online education and training offered through libraries and other public institutions. At the same time, providing these training opportunities has strained the capacity of our libraries. For more information on Recovery Act broadband grants, visit www.ntia.doc.gov/broadbandusa (####)
08.13.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today to mark the 75th anniversary of the enactment of the Social Security Act, which is tomorrow, August 14: "On this 75th Anniversary, millions of Americans can attest to the strength, and value, of Social Security’s guaranteed benefits. Social Security has not missed a check in its history and Democrats in Congress are committed to ensuring it remains a bedrock of retirement security for generations to come. As our nation digs out from the economic recession, we are reminded of the important role Social Security’s benefits have played, helping millions of our fellow Americans maintain a quality of life and avoid falling into poverty. The recession also sent a chilling reminder of the dangers of privatizing Social Security, leaving it vulnerable to the ups and downs of the stock market. America overwhelmingly rejected privatization under President Bush and we will continue to fight plans by Republicans in Congress to undermine and jeopardize this trusted and vital program." (####)
08.11.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today upon the passing of former Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D-IL) at the age of 82: “Dan Rostenkowski was a powerful force whose importance was illustrated in the passage of landmark legislation throughout his tenure in the Congress, most notably the Tax Reform Act of 1986. He worked in an era where he could use his demonstrated ability to work across party lines to achieve meaningful results. The thoughts and prayers of his former colleagues are with his family.” (####)
08.11.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today President Obama signed H.R. 4380, the U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act of 2010 into law. Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement: “The legislation that President Obama signed today is a significant step toward supporting American manufacturing and American jobs. House Democrats worked to enact this law so that American manufacturers could increase production at home and thereby compete internationally. This law is further proof that Democrats in Congress are committed to taking all necessary steps to help rebuild the American economy and restore economic security to hardworking middle-class families.”Commonly referred to as the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB), the law contains hundreds of tariff suspensions and reductions which will allow American companies to increase production and create more American jobs.Provisions included in the U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act of 2010 undergo an extremely thorough vetting process to ensure the benefits do not come at the expense of domestic manufacturers. During the process, the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee, the Administration, and the independent U.S. International Trade Commission thoroughly review each tariff relief request to ensure that there is no domestic opposition. The relief provided under the law is temporary, meaning that if a U.S. business begins manufacturing a product covered by a current MTB provision and the business objects to extending the provision when it comes up for renewal, it will not be extended. Click here for more information on H.R. 4380. (####)
08.10.2010	(Washington D.C.)- By a vote of 247 to 161 the House of Representatives today passed H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, to save or create hundreds of thousands of American jobs. Not only does H.R. 1586 prevent layoffs and provide funds to hire teachers and prevent law enforcement officers from losing their jobs, the bill is paid for by closing tax loopholes that encourage companies to ship American jobs overseas and other provisions which, have a net effect of reducing the Federal deficit by $1.4 billion dollars according to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). “The minority comes here talking about their unemployed constituents, having voted against continuing unemployment compensation for those out of work and looking for it,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The minority comes here talking about help for small business, having voted against Democratic bills to help small business. And today, once again, they vote against the American worker. In this bill we close tax loopholes, used by some companies to escape taxes and to ship jobs overseas. Closing this loophole is fair taxation and it is what the people of this country demand.” The legislation will save or create more than 319,000 American jobs—161,000 teacher jobs saved and 158,000 jobs created or saved, including police officers, firefighters and nurses. However, despite the clear benefits, and calls for passage of this critical assistance from a bipartisan group of 45 governors nationwide, House Republicans voted virtually in lockstep against the legislation. The provisions included in H.R. 1586 to close tax loopholes that ship jobs overseas were drafted by the Committee on Ways and Means and championed by Chairman Levin and his colleagues. House Republicans have consistently voted against closing these loopholes. (####)
08.05.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement upon release of the annual reports from the Trustees of the Social Security and Medicare Trust Funds: “These reports show the tangible, positive results of the improvements made to Medicare by health reform. Because of reform, Medicare’s solvency was extended by 12 years, making it a stronger program, and its strength will continue to improve as more components of reform are implemented. “Social Security plainly faces challenges in the future, but it remains a bedrock of economic security for tens of millions of Americans and we will ensure it remains that way for generations to come. We were reminded of the importance of Social Security throughout this recession as millions of families fell back on its guaranteed benefits to maintain their quality of life during the downturn. It was for precisely this reason Social Security was established and it has proven its value time and again.” (####)
07.30.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved sweeping legislation today to hold oil companies responsible for spills and reforming federal oversight of oil drilling. The Consolidated Land, Energy, and Aquatic Resources (CLEAR) Act passed by a vote of 209 to 193 . “The BP Deep Water Horizon spill might have been prevented if there had been some basic drilling safety standards in place, and if there had been effective oversight,” said Rep. Levin. “The CLEAR Act creates these standards. The bill holds BP and other oil companies accountable, and ensures that polluters pay the full cost of damage caused by the spills they create.” Major Provisions of the CLEAR Act include: Offshore Liability – Eliminates the current $75 million liability limit for offshore drilling operations. The bill also permits individuals to file claims under the Oil Pollution Act for damages to human health resulting from a spill. Royalty Reform – Ends a royalty suspension for some oil leases made in the late 1990s that allow oil companies to drill for free on public lands. Today, the price of oil is $77 a barrel, yet the holders of the leases do not pay royalties. Interior Department Reorganization – Codifies recent changes made by the Administration to abolish the Minerals Management Services (MMS) and replace it with three new agencies that separate responsibility for permitting, safety and environmental enforcement, and collecting royalties. Part of the problem at MMS was the inherent conflict of interest that followed an agency that had conflicting missions (i.e. maximizing revenue through royalties v. protecting the environment and safety). New Rules and Oversight Measures for Offshore Operations – Requires safety standards for blowout preventers including independent, third-party certification, as well as redundant systems for emergency backup and regular testing. Further, exploration plans would have to contain information on blowout “worst case” scenarios. There is also a requirement that all vessels engaged in drilling operations in U.S. waters be U.S. vessels owned by U.S. citizens. Because Deepwater Horizon is Marshall Islands flagged, the primary responsibility for safety and other inspections rested not with the U.S. government but with the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Gulf Coast Restoration – Creates a Gulf Coast Restoration Program to coordinate federal, state and local restoration plans. The task force would have to develop a restoration plan within 9 months of enactment and publish updates. National Commission Subpoena Power – Gives the National Commission investigating the BP spill the authority to issue subpoenas. Land & Water Protection – Makes good on a promise made over 45 years ago that money obtained from the sale of the public’s resources be used to protect and conserve our natural, historical, and recreational resources by providing mandatory funding of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The CLEAR Act also creates the Ocean Resources, Conservation and Assistance (ORCA) Fund, which will direct 10% of Outer Continental Shelf drilling revenues towards protecting and restoring our oceans and Great Lakes. (####)
07.30.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin welcomed news today that Chrysler Group LLC will keep open the Sterling Heights Assembly Plant (SHAP) and add a second shift of production. The announcement came during a visit to Chrysler and GM assembly plants by President Obama. “I welcome news that the Chrysler assembly plant in Sterling Heights will continue operations. Today’s announcement is more proof that providing government assistance while GM and Chrysler restructured was the right thing to do. The investment is paying off, and we are witnessing a turnaround in the domestic auto industry. “The President’s visit today and the decision to extend SHAP both underscore the importance of partnerships at the local, state and federal levels to transform our manufacturing base and lead in the next generation of vehicle manufacturing.” (####)
07.30.2010	(Washington D.C.)- House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman John S. Tanner (D-TN) issued the following statement concerning today’s announcement by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) that the United States is initiating consultations with Guatemala under the CAFTA-DR Labor Chapter to address concerns about Guatemala’s failure to enforce its labor laws: “This is the first-ever labor case brought under any free trade agreement, and the significance of that should not be understated,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The labor provisions in CAFTA, negotiated by the previous Administration, did not incorporate the strong international labor standards fought for by House Democrats. But we welcome the Obama Administration’s decision to address failures by Guatemala, or any other CAFTA country, to meet the standards incorporated in the CAFTA. This decision reflects the Administration’s commitment to worker rights, trade enforcement and spreading the benefits of trade broadly.”Trade Subcommittee Chairman John S. Tanner (D-TN) continued: “I welcome this announcement by USTR to initiate labor consultations under CAFTA-DR. Our trade agreements can provide American farmers and manufacturers with new opportunities in new markets, but it is critical that they are effectively enforced. The announcement today is a powerful signal that the Administration will hold our trading partners to their commitments on every aspect of our trading agreements.” (####)
07.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) today introduced H.R. 5893, the Investing in American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010. By closing loopholes that encourage companies to ship jobs overseas, the legislation would spur job creation here in the U.S. by extending successful Recovery Act provisions including the Build America Bonds program to fund domestic infrastructure improvements and the Emergency Fund for Job Creation and Assistance program to help States immediately support job programs. “This legislation reaffirms our commitment to creating jobs in America and closing loopholes that encourage companies to ship jobs and investments overseas,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “It is about moving forward to create opportunities for Americans in America using job-creating programs such as the Build America Bonds, which have a proven track record of successful job creation and benefit to our communities. Experts have deemed these bonds, which helped support nearly two million jobs, to be one of the most successful recovery efforts in place. Republican and Democratic governors alike have praised these programs and have also called for an immediate extension of the Emergency Fund for Job Creation program. “We have made this proposal clear and simple so that Republicans have an opportunity to join us in promoting U.S. jobs and stopping outsourcing,” said Chairman Levin. Highlights of the Investing in American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010: Closes loopholes that encourage companies to ship jobs overseas. Extends the Build America Bonds program for one year. Since its inception in 2009, the Build America Bonds program has helped finance more than $106 billion in domestic infrastructure improvements and supported more than 1.9 million jobs nationwide. Extends for one year the Emergency Fund for Job Creation and Assistance program which currently helps States meet increased need for assistance among low-income families and establish or expand jobs programs. It is estimated that the program has helped create hundreds of thousands of jobs in States across the country. Click here for additional information. Does not increase the deficit. Click here for additional information including bill text, summaries and estimated revenue effects. (####)
07.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives voted today in support of Democrats' “Make it in America” strategy by passing three bills that help rebuild the American manufacturing base with an emphasis on competitiveness, innovation, and exports and the creation of high-skill, high-wage jobs. “Manufacturing is the backbone of good paying jobs in the U.S. and we must reverse the erosion in this vital sector through an active public-private partnership that invests in our infrastructure and workforce, and builds the advanced manufacturing base of the future,” said Rep. Levin. The three bills passed by the House today represent vital next steps in the Democratic “Make it in America” agenda. The National Manufacturing Strategy Act creates a Manufacturing Strategy Board that will develop short- and long-term goals for America’s manufacturing industry. The Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act supports our clean energy economy by making it easier for companies to navigate foreign market, promoting investments, and reducing production costs for these companies. The End the Trade Deficit Act rethinks United States trade policy so that we no longer import more than we export. Last week, as part of the Make it in America agenda, the House passed the U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act, that helps U.S. manufacturers compete at home and abroad by temporarily suspending or reducing duties on materials these companies use that are not made domestically. The legislation, introduced by Rep. Levin, has passed the Senate and is on the way to becoming law. The House has also passed the SECTORS Act, which invests in 21st-century workforce training to make sure that our people have the skills to make it in America. Tomorrow, the House will consider the Investing in American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act which closes loopholes that encourage companies to ship jobs overseas. The bill also extends successful Recovery Act provisions, including the Build America Bonds program to fund domestic infrastructure improvements and the Emergency Fund for Job Creation and Assistance program to help States immediately support job programs. Additionally, Rep. Levin has released a draft of the Domestic Manufacturing and Energy Jobs Act which would make a significant investment in domestic manufacturing to create jobs and see to it that the clean energy technologies of the future are made here in the United States. These pieces of legislation build on the success we’ve already had in rallying America’s manufacturing sector under the Obama Administration. The automobile industry is in the midst of a dramatic turnaround and since the beginning of this year the private sector has created 136,000 new manufacturing jobs. (####)
07.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) joined House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, members of the House Democratic Leadership, and House Democrats at a press event this morning on the Steps of the Capitol to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Social Security Act, which President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed into law on August 14, 1935. Below are Chairman Levin’s remarks during the event: “Six years ago we stopped President Bush’s efforts to privatize and cut Social Security. We held hundreds and hundreds of meetings throughout this country, and America spoke out. They said ‘NO’ to privatization -- a resounding ‘NO’. But Republicans have never given up on their twisted dream of privatization, and we are here today standing united against the nightmare of privatization. This is another Bush policy the Republicans want to go back to, and on this 75th anniversary, the Speaker, the rest of the leadership, and all of us stand united -- we will not go back. Democrats will never turn our backs on the Social Security of the United States of America.” (####)
07.27.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) today released draft legislative text of the Domestic Manufacturing and Energy Jobs Act of 2010. The draft legislation would make a significant investment in domestic manufacturing to create jobs and see to it that the clean energy technologies of the future are made here in the United States. The bill would also provide long-term certainty that the United States will continue to support renewable energy and energy efficiency, and will encourage manufacturers to build facilities in the United States. “As the world moves toward renewable energy and a greener economy, it is necessary to accelerate a new era of American manufacturing and innovation,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “With the U.S. government as a full, active and effective partner, the private sector can expand our green manufacturing capacity, ensuring that these jobs and products will be created in the U.S., competing globally and protecting our environment. The governments of other countries are racing ahead to dominate in this area. “This is why the draft I am releasing today provides vital tax incentives to modernize U.S. manufacturing facilities and encourage demand of renewable energy and energy efficient products. We must not let this opportunity pass us by. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate, as well the Administration, to enact legislation. Highlights of the Domestic Manufacturing and Energy Jobs Act of 2010: • Includes $6.5 billion investment tax credits for taxpayers that re-equip, expand or establish domestic manufacturing facilities that produce advanced energy equipment. These tax credits will encourage more than $22 billion of investment in domestic manufacturing facilities and will build upon the $2.3 billion of investment tax credits that were provided in the Recovery Act. • Encourages domestic demand for renewable energy equipment and energy efficient equipment by (1) continuing successful programs such as the direct payment in lieu of tax credits program (aka “Section 1603” program); (2) providing a long-term extension of the placed in service date for offshore wind and geothermal facilities; and (3) providing State and local governments with financing tools to encourage energy-efficiency and renewable energy on residential property. • Provides tax incentives for renewable fuel production and technologies to decrease U.S. dependence on foreign oil. In particular, tax incentives for large natural gas and electric/hybrid vehicles to transition the country’s diesel fleet to cleaner domestic sources of fuel. Additionally, the draft would continue tax incentives for domestically produced biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel. Click here for additional information, including draft legislative text, summary and estimated revenue effects. (####)
07.22.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 4213, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act, by a vote of 272 to 152. This critical legislation retroactively restores and extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) and Extended Benefits programs through November 30, 2010. For six weeks, Republicans in the Senate have blocked this bill, preventing over 2.5 million unemployed Americans from receiving the benefits that they deserve. “The House acted in May, but for six weeks Senate Republicans blocked unemployment insurance,” said Ways and Means Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “They stood not on the side of, but in the way of millions of Americans. During those six weeks over 2.5 million unemployed Americans exhausted their benefits and struggled to stay afloat while continuing to look for work in this difficult economy.” “So today we put this sad chapter behind us and move forward to continue our efforts to support job creation and to continue to dig ourselves of the ditch that we inherited from the last Administration.” The House originally voted to extend the programs on May 28, 2010 in an attempt to prevent a lapse in benefits, but the measure was blocked by Senate Republicans. Since then, millions of unemployed workers started losing their benefits, some as early as the end of May. Click here for additional information about unemployment insurance. (####)
07.22.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin, Chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means, delivered the following remarks in favor of extending unemployment insurance earlier today. Video of the remarks is available here. The House of Representatives is expected to vote on the legislation this afternoon. “This action should have occurred two months ago. This house acted to extend unemployment insurance on May 28th. For six weeks, six weeks Republicans in the Senate blocked unemployment insurance. They stood not on the side, but in the way of millions of Americans and during those six weeks over 2.5 million unemployed Americans exhausted their benefits and struggled to stay afloat while continuing to look for work in this difficult economy. “Americans like this person from Grand Rapids, Michigan, who wrote me, and I quote, ‘I worked 22 years in automotive 60-70 hrs a week, supported my family, paid my taxes and worked in my community. Every single day I send my resume out to no avail. I have lost my home, one vehicle and my sense of the ability to take care of my family.’ “Or this individual from Madison Heights, Michigan, ‘My family is not living large, we are surviving. Cutting unemployment will take us out of survival mode and put us into homeless mode... After working 20+ years, this is the first time that we have asked for unemployment...’ “To add insult to injury, after their filibuster was broken, Senate Republicans insisted on running out the clock and delaying the full 30 hours before they would let a final vote occur in the other body. Thirty hours for nothing. No excuse of theirs worked for Americans out of work through no fault of their own and looking for their next job. We have acted to extend unemployment insurance in Republican Congresses and under Republican Presidents. “So today we put this sad chapter behind us and move forward to continue our efforts to support job creation and to continue to dig ourselves of the ditch that we inherited from the last Administration.” (####)
07.21.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives voted today in strong support of U.S. manufacturers and American workers by passing H.R. 4380, the U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act of 2010. The legislation contains hundreds of tariff suspensions and reductions which would help American companies grow and support further job creation. Despite opposition by the Republican House leadership, the measure passed easily by a vote of 378-43. “This vote is a victory for jobs in America, and for U.S. manufacturers and workers who need this action to keep growing and to compete internationally,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “This was a defeat for the House Republican leadership which attempted to put partisan politics and short-term political gain above the needs of American businesses and workers.”Rank-and-file Republican Members deserted House Republican leadership, ignoring their calls for a “no” vote based on rules developed by the Republican conference which mistakenly lumped limited tariff benefits under a broad earmark moratorium. H.R. 4380 was considered under suspension of the rules, requiring two-thirds of those present to support the bill for passage. As soon as the two-thirds threshold was achieved, dozens of Republican members who had registered their vote in opposition switched their votes, abandoning their leadership. “Passage of this bill is one more step toward economic recovery and private-sector job growth in America,” Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman John Tanner said. “Working families in America will be grateful that a substantial majority of Members of this House rose above political rhetoric to do the right thing for saving and creating jobs in our country.” Background on H.R. 4380, the U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act of 2010: Commonly referred to as the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB), this legislation is estimated to support tens of thousands of American jobs, helping to increase U.S. production and expand gross domestic product (GDP) by billions of dollars. Provisions included in the legislation undergo an extremely thorough vetting process to ensure the benefits do not come at the expense of domestic manufacturers. During the process, the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee, the Administration, and the independent U.S. International Trade Commission thoroughly review each tariff relief request to ensure that there is no domestic opposition. The relief provided in H.R. 4380 is temporary, meaning that if a U.S. business begins manufacturing a product covered by a current MTB provision and the business objects to extending the provision when it comes up for renewal, it will not be extended. The legislation is supported by hundreds of U.S. businesses and trade associations, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers. Please click here for more information on H.R. 4380. (####)
07.21.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today after the Senate voted to overcome the GOP filibuster and move to a vote on legislation that would extend Federal unemployment insurance (UI) programs. The House of Representatives sent similar legislation to the Senate on May 28, 2010 and again on July 1, 2010 in an attempt to overcome obstruction by Senate Republicans that left millions of Americans without their unemployment benefits. Following Senate passage, the House will take up the legislation as early as tomorrow. “I am relieved to see that the Senate is finally acting in the best interest of millions of unemployed workers who have been thrown out of their job by this bad economy and are still looking for work. When the lives of millions of Americans and their families are in jeopardy it isn’t a Republican emergency or a Democratic emergency, it is an American emergency. Republicans in Congress have been so focused on scoring political points that they seem to have forgotten this important principle. “The economic downturn left millions out of work and, although there are positive signs of economic growth, there are still five workers for every available job. These Americans are ready to work and we must not turn our backs on them. This is why the Committee will continue developing proposals to spur job creation, including new, green jobs to manufacture renewable energy technologies. Today’s action in the Senate is necessary, but it is not sufficient, it must also continue efforts to overcome Republican filibusters on important job-creating provisions that would help small businesses, prevent the outsourcing of American jobs and extend successful programs such as Build America Bonds and the research and development tax credit.” Click here for additional information on unemployment insurance. (####)
07.20.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives is scheduled to consider important legislation to support thousands of U.S. manufacturing jobs this week. H.R. 4380, the U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act of 2010, contains hundreds of tariff suspensions and reductions that will help American companies manufacture and sell goods to continue growing and supporting American jobs. The bill is scheduled to be considered by the Full House as early as tomorrow. “This bill is a shot in the arm for U.S. manufacturers who need these products to keep making their goods and supporting American jobs,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The MTB has historically received strong bipartisan support and I hope my Republican colleagues, many of whom have businesses in their districts that need this relief, will stand up for American businesses and workers and support this bill.” Commonly referred to as the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB), this legislation is estimated to support tens of thousands of American jobs, helping to increase U.S. production and expand gross domestic product (GDP) by billions of dollars. Provisions included in the legislation undergo an extremely thorough vetting process to ensure the benefits do not come at the expense of domestic manufacturers. During the process, the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee, the Administration, and the independent U.S. International Trade Commission thoroughly review each tariff relief request to ensure that there is no domestic opposition. The relief provided in H.R. 4380 is temporary, meaning that if a U.S. business begins manufacturing a product covered by a current MTB provision and the business objects to extending the provision when it comes up for renewal, it will not be extended. The legislation is supported by hundreds of U.S. businesses and trade associations, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers. Please click here for more information on H.R. 4380. (####)
07.19.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin issued the following statement today following a meeting of Committee Democrats to discuss upcoming legislation to create new, green jobs and encourage the production and use of renewable energy technology and conservation: “We had a very productive discussion and I expect to continue working on a package of tax incentives to spur job creation and enhance domestic manufacturing of renewable energy technology and conservation. I will release a Chairman’s discussion draft with legislative language in the next few days. I will also continue discussions with the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee regarding this legislation.” (####)
07.14.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) and Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee Chairman Jim McDermott (D-WA) joined fellow Committee and House Members at an event to urge Senate Republicans to end their filibuster and help pass H.R. 5618, the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act. Joining the Members were unemployed workers Barbara Banaszewski and Louise Long who highlighted the real-life emergency facing millions of American families who rely on unemployment benefits to make ends meet. “There is a national emergency facing millions of Americans,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Levin. “But it is an emergency of the most personal nature for the millions of unemployed workers and their families. Their ability to put food on the table, pay their rent and focus on finding their next job is being put to the test by a few Senate Republicans who would rather play political games than help the unemployed of this country. This is simply unacceptable. ” The event featured an electronic display showing a live, running tally of unemployed Americans losing their benefits due to Senate Republican obstruction of H.R. 5618. The counter showed an increase of nearly 2,000 workers during the 45 minute event, ending with roughly 2,322,000 workers having lost their benefits due to the continued Republican filibuster. The live counter can be viewed on the Ways and Means Committee home page: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/ “Republicans have become the proud party of hypocrisy,” said Subcommittee Chairman Jim McDermott. “They say they won’t vote for restoring unemployment benefits because the bill is not paid for. This from the same party that had no problem spending one trillion dollars on two wars, and gave tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires—neither of which were paid for. Last night, millions of families all over America had trouble putting dinner on the table because of Republican obstruction. It’s hypocritical and callous. I hope that Republicans in the Senate will find the courage to buck their party and finally give these workers the lifeline they need.” Putting a face on the staggering number of unemployed losing their benefits were two hard-working women from Maryland who both lost jobs recently after decades of work. “After all these years I never thought that when I needed my country to help me and help everyone out there, they would turn their backs on us,” said Barbara Banaszewski. “We are a country that helps in times of crisis. How dare they turn their back on us now! I say to you, approve this [legislation]. Keep us going. Let us have our integrity. Respect us; we respect you. We sent you here. Don’t turn your back on us now.” Banaszewski went on to cite the ways unemployment benefits would help the economy. “It goes back into the economy. It pays for rent. It keeps the grocery stores going. It does not get outsourced. It does not go outside the United States. The money stays here.” “I calculated with my unemployment and my savings, I could survive until March of 2011, but now that my unemployment insurance is gone, I may not be able to make it after December,” said Louise Long. “I’m not looking for a free ride or any handout; I’m just looking for an opportunity for myself to get back in the work world, because that’s what I was raised to do.” Click here for additional information about unemployment insurance. ### (####)
07.13.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA) today commented on the release of rules by the Administration clarifying incentives for adoption of health IT systems by health care providers. These incentives were part of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act: “By moving our health records system into the 21st Century, we can save money and save lives,” said Chairman Levin. “These guidelines are a good balance, pushing providers to adopt and use health IT systems while recognizing the current limitations of these systems. Except for the outstanding issue relating to the multi-campus system, the rule issued today will help improve the quality of care and coordination among providers, both of which are critical to efforts to reform the delivery system.” “Health IT systems are critical to the future of health care,” said Health Subcommittee Chairman Stark. “Next week, the Health Subcommittee will look at how the Recovery Act will help providers adopt health IT systems. The Administration's rules did not address incentives to separate campuses of a multi-campus system. We will study future steps to address this issue.” (####)
07.02.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Homeland Security announced that Macomb County will receive $660,795 from the Emergency Food and Shelter Program. A local board, chaired by the United Way for Southeast Michigan, will now accept grant applications and divide the funding between social service organizations in Macomb County to supplement and expand ongoing efforts to provide shelter, food and support services. The funding for Macomb County is a reallocated portion of $100 million made available for the program by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Michigan received a total of $4.2 million in reallocated funding. “Our community has been hit hard by the difficult economy and many families cannot put food on the table without assistance from soup kitchens and food pantries,” said Rep. Levin. “The service providers in Macomb, who know the challenges facing local families firsthand, are well-equipped to quickly put this funding to good use.” The Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP) was created in 1983 to supplement the work of public and private local social service organizations. Recipient organizations, which are chosen by an EFSP Local Board, can be used to fund mass shelter, mass feeding, food distribution through food pantries and food banks, one-month utility payments to prevent cut-offs, and one-month rent/mortgage assistance to prevent eviction. The United Way for Southeastern Michigan is accepting grant applications on behalf of the Macomb EFSP Local Board. An applying organization must be a nonprofit or government agency, have the capacity to provide emergency food and/or shelter services, have at least one full time paid staff person, and must use the funding to supplement and extend existing resources and not to substitute or reimburse ongoing programs and services. For more information contact the United Way for Southeastern Michigan at 313.226.9353. (####)
07.01.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 5618, the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act, critical legislation to extend unemployment insurance benefits to millions of American workers through the end of November 2010. Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI), a sponsor of the bill, gave the following remarks on the House Floor today in support of the legislation: “Earlier today, a Republican Member of this House spoke on the plight of millions of unemployed who are losing their unemployment insurance, saying, he came to the floor with a heavy heart. I think the unemployed in America welcome heavy hearts, but if there isn't a helping hand, a heavy heart doesn't work. Those who are still unemployed should not suffer due to the indifference of Republicans in Congress. “I want to list very briefly the basic facts for everyone to consider and for all of our country to hear: 1.7 million unemployed workers, unemployed through no fault of their own, looking for work, will have lost their benefits by the end of this week. By the end of next week, without further action, 2.1 million will have lost their benefits. By the middle of July, when the Senate can address this issue again, 2.5 million will be without this basic assistance. The average unemployment insurance in this country is about $300 a week, roughly half of the previous wage on average. For a family of four that average check is only 74 percent of the poverty level. “These basic facts should refute the notion that those who are unemployed, who would have no benefits, are not looking for work. Indeed, the reality is very clear. For every job available there are five unemployed workers. This issue is fundamentally an emergency for our country and our economy. Unemployment benefits have been considered, and passed as emergency spending under both Democratic and Republican Congresses and Administrations. “I cannot understand how anyone could come to this floor and say for 1.7 million people and their families this is not an emergency. There is no excuse for voting ‘no.’ It has been noted that the Senate is out of session. We must pass this so it is the first item of business when they return. The only reason this extension has not passed the Senate in recent days is because there could not be found more than two Republicans to vote for this extension. That is a shame and it is shameful. This House needs to lift that shame off of the shoulders of everyone in this institution and pass this bill so that millions of American workers get the benefits they earned and deserve.” Click here for more information on H.R. 5618. (####)
06.30.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed today a comprehensive set of measures to put in place an orderly resolution process for failing financial institutions and create a consumer financial protection bureau. The package of reforms addresses the myriad causes – from predatory lending to unregulated financial trading – that led to the 2008 financial crisis. The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act passed by a vote of 237 to 192. “Almost two years ago, this House was faced with painful dilemma: risk the collapse of our financial system and a second Great Depression, or take action to stabilize financial markets,” said Rep. Levin. “This comprehensive financial regulatory reform will help to ensure that we are never again forced to choose between bailing out banks and saving our economy. Additionally, the legislation creates strong consumer financial protections to end predatory lending, prevent deliberately misleading ‘disclosures’ and end other industry abuses.” In the run up to the financial crisis, rampant speculation, and in some cases fraud, in the residential housing and mortgage markets combined with an explosion of complexity in the financial markets to create a bubble that when it burst, rippled through the entire economy. The financial crisis that began in 2008 was the worst since the Great Depression and was enabled and made worse by a lax regulatory environment that for many years failed to properly supervise financial markets and control the risks Wall Street was creating. To prevent this from happening again, the bill creates a council of regulators to monitor and regulate financial institutions, whether they are banks or not, that are so large or interconnected that they pose a systemic risk to the financial system. In the event of a failure of such an institution, the Council would have the authority to break up or liquidate the firm under a resolution process overseen by the FDIC. The legislation also establishes a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection within the Federal Reserve with rule-making authority over most consumer financial products, and direct examination and enforcement authority over mortgage-related businesses, banks and credit unions with assets over $10 billion, pay-day lenders and others. The bill has been called the “strongest set of Wall Street reforms in three generations” by Elizabeth Warren, Chair of the nonpartisan Congressional Oversight Panel, and has been endorsed by the AARP, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Council of Institutional Investors, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Restaurant Association, Public Citizen, SEIU, and US PIRG, among other organizations. The legislation must now be approved by the Senate. (####)
06.29.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) made the following statement on the House Floor today in support of H.R. 5618, the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act. The legislation, introduced by Chairman Levin and Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee Chairman Jim McDermott (D-WA) would extend unemployment insurance (UI) benefits through November. “Those who vote ‘no’ have no place to hide. This is an emergency for 1.7 million people and their families right now. Therefore it's an emergency for the community of the United States of America. That 1.7 million will grow and grow under this banner that is floated by the Republicans. “The excuses fall of their own lack of weight. They could not find a single Republican in the Senate to vote for legislation that would create jobs and extend unemployment benefits, so they finger point at those who acted and excuse those who refuse to act. “Republicans bring up the deficit, a deficit that grew under the previous Administration. They can't hide behind that. This is an emergency. They have not come up with any responsible, feasible way to excuse inaction. Unemployment insurance was extended many times under Republican Presidents, so they don't even have that excuse. There's no excuse. What was done under previous Administrations, Republican and Democratic, should be done right today. “I’m afraid Republicans don't see that there's an emergency for the soon-to-be two million families without benefits. In terms of economic growth, when you provide unemployment insurance to people, they spend it. So if Republicans are worried about growth and consumer demand, they should work to put money in the pockets of people who are desperate, who are out of work, who are looking for work. Instead, they turn their backs on them. “I want to read a story. I met this person in Hazel Park, Michigan, last weekend. He served three years and nine months in the U.S. Army, including a year tour in Iraq. He has an Associate’s degree from a community college and a Bachelor’s degree. He was employed by a loan company, a mortgage company as a broker, and then the mortgage crisis came and he was laid off. He was unemployed for three months and then he was hired by K-mart as an assistant store manager. He was laid off in 2009, August, due to store closing. He has currently approximately four weeks left on his extension due to expire on July 14. “There are 1.7 million people like this gentleman in America today. I don't know how Republicans look them in the face. I don't know how they explain a ‘no’ vote. I think the flimsy arguments that are used won't work in this hall and won't work back home. “This is an emergency. I really can't believe that Republicans are going to come here and vote ‘no.’ They're voting ‘no’ for millions. They're voting ‘no’ for what I think is best for the United States of America. We are a community of people. When people lose their jobs and can't find them, we don't stand and simply stand idly by. This is the time for Republicans to stand up, and the only way to stand up is to vote ‘yes.’ “I plead on behalf of the millions of people in this country out of work looking for jobs that Republicans stand with us to provide the unemployment insurance that Americans have worked for and that should be provided. Don’t turn your backs on them. In the end there will be no excuse.” Click here to watch a video of Chairman Levin’s statement.Click here for more information on H.R. 5618. (####)
06.29.2010	(Washington D.C.)- House Ways and Means Chairman Sander Levin welcomed news today that employers, unions, and state and local governments that offer health coverage to early retirees can now apply for help with those costs. “Retirees who are not old enough for Medicare and the sponsors of their insurance find themselves squeezed between rising costs and the lack of any good alternatives,” said Chairman Levin. “This program will make the insurance more affordable so early retirees can maintain coverage.” The Early Retiree Reinsurance Program will reimburse a portion of the cost of health benefits to the insurance sponsor for early retirees and their spouses, surviving spouses, and dependents. The reimbursement will make health benefits more affordable for plan participants and sponsors so that the coverage can continue to be accessible, especially to retirees on fixed incomes. The Early Retiree program is meant to provide a bridge for early retirees as the country moves toward a more competitive, patient-centered health care system in 2014, when the Health Insurance Exchanges begin. Starting today, sponsors of participating employment-based plans for early retirees can go to www.hhs.gov/ociio to fill out applications to participate in the Early Retiree program. Program participants will be able to submit claims for medical care of their early retirees going back to June 1, 2010. (####)
06.29.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, House Republicans voted down a critical extension of unemployment insurance that would benefit millions of American families, including the estimated 1.7 million Americans whose benefits have expired, or will expire by the end of this week. "Republicans in Congress are clearly more focused on their short-term political standing than the immediate economic security of millions of Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own and are unable to find work,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “While today’s vote is deeply disappointing, it is not altogether surprising given how Republicans have increasingly voted in lock-step against all measures to create jobs, strengthen our economic recovery and help the unemployed. “We will persevere,” said Chairman Levin. “We will bring this bill up again under regular order and it will pass. Today’s vote should make it abundantly clear to the American people that the Democratic majority in Congress remains committed to providing the benefits and assistance families need while we continue efforts to recover from this recession.” (####)
06.29.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today voted to extend the closing deadline for taxpayers seeking the homebuyer’s tax credit. H.R. 5623, the Homebuyers Assistance and Improvement Act of 2010 would extend the current deadline from June 30 to September 30, 2010, enabling an estimated 180,000 additional homebuyers to utilize the credit. Taxpayers must have entered into a written, binding contract prior to May 1st to claim the credit. The legislation also includes an important provision to crack down on reported instances of fraud identified in a recent report by the U.S. Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. “Millions of American families have taken advantage of the homebuyer tax credit, giving a boost to home sales at a time when our housing market needed it most,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The credit helped spur our economic recovery and also helped first-time buyers achieve their dreams of owning a home. Today’s legislation helps ensure the credit works for people who followed the terms of the incentive and need a little more time to close on their pending contracts.”“This legislation also takes important steps to eliminate limited instances of fraud that were recently discovered by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration,” continued Chairman Levin. “Last year, the Ways and Means Committee, led by Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis, took the lead in examining the application of the credit, rooting out fraud and passing legislation to eliminate identified abuses. Current law only allows the IRS to exchange information with State prison officials. State prison authorities have stated that a cooperative effort is necessary to combat prisoner tax fraud. To permit effective tax administration, the bill would allow the IRS to disclose tax return information to officers and employees of State agencies charged with the administration of prisons.” The cost of the legislation is fully offset. Please click here for a summary of provisions included in H.R. 5623. (####)
06.29.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee Chairman Jim McDermott (D-WA) today introduced H.R. 5618, the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act, to extend unemployment insurance (UI) benefits to millions of American families. The bill follows Senate Republicans’ obstruction of legislation that would have not only promoted job creation here in the U.S. but extended critical unemployment insurance benefits to help Americans make ends meet as they look for their next job opportunity. “Nearly two million families are without their economic lifeline because of the latest Republican obstruction in the Senate to block the passage of jobs legislation that included unemployment benefits,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “We will not abandon these families. This bill is the cornerstone of emergency economic spending and I encourage Congressional Republicans to put aside political grandstanding and start standing with the American people.” By July 3, 2010, approximately 1.7 million unemployed workers will have lost their UI benefits because of last week’s Republican filibuster. H.R. 5618 would extend the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) and Extended Benefits programs through November 30, 2010. The legislation would retroactively restore benefits to recipients who may have started losing their benefits as early as the end of May. “We have the highest number of long-term unemployed Americans ever on record, so you’d think we’d be overwhelmed by bipartisan cooperation to help the millions of people who rely on unemployment benefits to put food on the table,” said Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee Chairman Jim McDermott (D-WA). “Instead, only one of the more than 200 Republicans in Congress voted to continue benefits. I refuse to tell millions of jobless Americans that we don’t care what happens to them.” Click here for the legislative text of H.R. 5618. Click here for a summary of H.R. 5618. Click here for a chart of the cumulative number of claimants losing benefits due to Senate Republicans’ filibuster. Click here for a State-by-State chart on the estimated number of claimants losing benefits by July 3, 2010 if Congress fails to act. (####)
06.29.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the Pittsburgh Tribune reported that Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) suggested Social Security should be cut, and its benefits should be means-tested, in order to pay for the war in Afghanistan. Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) and Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) issued the following statements in response: "The American people should take note of the Republican Leader’s proposals to undermine Social Security,” said Chairman Levin. “Generations of Americans have worked long and hard to earn the benefits paid through Social Security and these funds should not be used to pay for anything else, as suggested by Mr. Boehner. This outrageous proposal pulls the cover from the Republicans' misguided priorities to undermine the universal support Social Security has enjoyed for generations." "Republicans want to repeal the estate tax for billionaires and are holding up Wall Street reform, but now say they want to finance a war and reduce the deficit by cutting the benefits that seniors have paid for all their lives" Subcommittee on Social Security Chairman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) said. "The Minority Leader's comments today express a dangerous view of one of our country's most important programs. Minority Leader Boehner wants to put the cost of the war on the backs of our seniors, including tens of thousands of veterans, even as he cries foul at the slightest suggestion that the wealthiest individuals in this country should forgo a tax cut." Chairman Levin further said "Democrats have fought against Republicans' harmful ideas to privatize Social Security, and now the Republican Leader wants to divert funds from Social Security to fund the war." Chairman Pomeroy continued, "Social Security is a promise made to all generations, and I am committed to ensuring that promise is fulfilled for both current and future beneficiaries." In a recorded interview, the Republican Leader indicated that in order to justify cutting benefits for middle class families he would tell the American people that "we are broke." The fact is, Social Security is not broke - there is $2.6 trillion of American workers' money in the Social Security Trust Fund, which is invested in Treasury bonds that are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. (####)
06.25.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin welcomed the announcement today by Governor Granholm that the State of Michigan will use $20 million in Recovery Act funds to provide Clean Energy Advance Manufacturing awards to nine Michigan companies to help create jobs, diversify our state’s manufacturing base, and produce the next generation of renewable energy systems and components. “Investing in innovative clean energy manufacturing is essential. The awards being made today will create good jobs and help to lay the foundation of a robust clean energy sector in Michigan,” said Rep. Levin. “Deploying Recovery funds to support advanced energy manufacturing build’s on Michigan’s strengths.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) included $3.1 billion in formula-based grants to states under the State Energy Program. State energy offices use the funding for near-term deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies as well as long-term investments to help create new jobs in the growing renewable energy sector. Michigan received $82 million for its State Energy Program (SEP) through the Recovery Act. The Clean Energy Advance Manufacturing awards announced today include: KC Jones Plating Company, Warren, MI – $300,000 to provide specialized metal polishing and finishing to decrease wear and failure of wind turbine components; AMPTECH, Manistee, MI – $573,000 to enhance the standard combiner box with custom electronics, to create a “smart” combiner box. The smart combiner box will retrieve informational data that will indicate failure rates of the panels and energy losses, in addition to changing DC power into AC power on solar panels; Great Lakes Industry, Inc., Jackson, MI – $2.5 million to implement advanced gear manufacturing capabilities for wind and future solar energy markets; Grid Logic, Inc., Metamora, MI – $5 million manufacture advanced clean energy efficiency devices called Fault Current Limiters (FCLs), to be used by utility companies to improve the efficiency and performance of the electric grid and assist in the incorporation of alternative energy sources; Heat Transfer International, Inc., Kentwood, MI – $2.75 million to develop and manufacture technologically transformative, commercially viable biomass gasification power systems; Innotec, Inc., Zeeland, MI – $1.2 million for Advanced LED Integrated Lighting Module manufacturing; Polar Seal Window, Grand Rapid, MI – $200,000 to manufacture energy efficient commercial/Residential window products; URV USA, LLC, Rochester, MI – $4 million to establish a Michigan-based foundry to develop next generation casting processes for building large utility scale wind turbine components; Ventower Industries, Monroe, MI – $3.47 million to manufacture structural steel towers used to support commercial sized wind turbines. (####)
06.25.2010	(Roseville, MUI)- To help residents of the 12th Congressional District access the services provided by his District Office, Congressman Levin's staff will be available to help constituents at the locations listed below after normal business hours. At the office hours residents will be able to seek assistance with federal agencies, ask about legislation or issues of concern, and receive information regarding current congressional activity. Members of the Congressman’s staff will be present to answer questions and collect opinions and concerns to share with the Congressman. Congressman Levin’s office can assist residents having trouble with Social Security and Medicare, Veterans benefits, immigration, tax disputes, and other issues involving federal agencies. More information is available here: https://levin.house.gov/serving-you OFFICE HOURS FOR THE WEEK OF JUNE 28th STAFF Fraser Public Library16330 Fourteen Mile RoadFraser, MI 48026-2099Monday, June 28th 5:00 – 6:30pm St. Clair Shores Library22500 East Eleven Mile RoadSt Clair Shores, MI 48081Tuesday, June 29th 5:30 – 7:00pm Warren City Hall1 City Center DriveWarren, MI 48093-5290Wednesday, June 30th 5:30 – 7:00pm (####)
06.25.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The United States Department of Labor announced today that Michigan is the recipient of a $3.7 million Recovery Act grant which will allow Michigan Works! offices to support training partnerships with employers to fill specific job needs. “Michigan’s training and economic development initiatives are vital to a workforce ready to get back on the job,” said Rep. Levin. “By zeroing in on specific job placements, these funds will leverage private-public partnerships that benefit both the employer and worker.” The grant, an On-the-Job Training National Emergency Grant, will target employers who are experiencing a skills gap between their existing needs and prospective workers. Participating workers will be able to earn a paycheck while they receive training and participating employers will receive partial reimbursement their training costs. Michigan’s award was part of $75 million in grants announced nationwide today made possible by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Since the signing of the Recovery Act into law last year, Michigan has received more than $300 million in grants to support No Worker Left Behind programs run through local Michigan Works! offices. (####)
06.24.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives voted today to strengthen elections and provide more information to voters about political spending done by corporations, unions, and third party advocacy organizations. The legislation also prohibits election-related spending by foreign-owned corporations and government contractors. The Democracy is Strengthened by Casting Light on Spending in Elections (DISCLOSE) Act passed by a vote of 219 to 206. “The DISCLOSE Act pulls back the curtain to let voters know which corporations and advocacy groups are trying to influence an election and how much money they are spending to do so,” said Rep. Levin. “Voters should know who is behind the spending on TV and radio ads so they can judge motives and reach their own conclusions.” Currently, advocacy organizations can hide behind generic or even misleading names to spend millions of dollars in political advertising attacking a candidate or cause. Posing as grassroots citizens groups, often advertisements turn out to be astroturf campaigns funded by corporations, industry trade associations, and political interests. The Supreme Court allowed for a dramatic increase in this undisclosed spending when they overturned two decades of precedents that prohibited corporate and union expenditures in political campaigns. In a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission permitted all corporations, unions, and advocacy organizations to spend unlimited amounts of treasury funds to expressly advocate for the election or defeat of candidates for federal office. The DISCLOSE Act addresses this issue by requiring the CEO or President of the sponsoring corporation, union, or advocacy organization to stand by their ad, just as candidates must. The bill requires these organizations to inform their members or shareholders of their election-related spending so that the decision makers can be held accountable. It requires spending amounts to be posted online and, for those shadow groups that seem to form overnight, advertisements will be required to list their top five funders, and the organization will need to make a list of their large donors available to the public. The DISCLOSE Act also steps in to bar spending by corporations controlled by foreign nationals as well as government contractors and TARP recipients so they cannot spend taxpayer money on election activities. The DISCLOSE Act has strong support from the campaign finance reform community and has been endorsed by Common Cause, League of Women Voters, Public Citizen, Campaign Legal Center, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), and Democracy 21, among many other organizations. (####)
06.24.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today the Republican minority in the United States Senate filibustered and prevented the body from debating critical provisions to create jobs, cut taxes and provide vital assistance to millions of unemployed workers. “Republicans in the Senate have been stonewalling on jobs legislation week after week. Doing so, they have placed a hammerlock on the lives of millions of Americans,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “With this filibuster, Senate Republicans are saying to the American people that they care more about their political futures than they do the daily lives of millions of Americans. Senate Republicans should side with the American people, not with their party leaders, or the tea party, and allow a straight up or down vote on the comprehensive jobs bill in the Senate.“We will not give up. A million and a half Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own, and continue looking for work, have lost their benefits because of Senate Republicans. Because of this vote, our tax code still contains loopholes encouraging companies to ship jobs overseas. Too much is at stake to just say ‘no.’ We will continue pressing Senate Republicans to put aside politics and listen to the people who are looking for jobs, listen to families and businesses seeking tax relief, and to State and local governments seeking financing tools to improve our communities and create jobs.” (####)
06.22.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today President Obama announced the enactment of new consumer protections included in the Affordable Care Act, adding to the growing list of implementation accomplishments since the bill was signed into law 90 days ago. The new regulations will eliminate discriminatory practices that for years have prevented Americans from receiving the care they deserve. “For decades insurance companies have had free reign to make decisions that put profits ahead of patients,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The regulations announced today and the landmark reforms in the Affordable Care Act usher in a new era where the priority is delivering quality care to patients. Health reform enacted long overdue consumer protections and gave Federal and State governments tools to hold insurance companies accountable, preventing them from socking patients with unjustified rate increases.” The regulations being issued today implement the following protections: • Prohibits insurance plans from denying coverage or limiting benefits for children with pre-existing conditions • Protects choice of doctors • Removes insurance company barriers to emergency department services • Bans arbitrary rescissions of insurance coverage • Prohibits insurance plans from placing lifetime limits on coverage • Prevents restricting the annual dollar limits on coverage by insurance plans Click here for a fact sheet from the Administration.Click here for additional information about the Affordable Care Act. (####)
06.21.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On Friday, leaders of the Committee on Ways and Means sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner expressing support for a proposed regulation to protect Social Security beneficiaries from unlawful debt collection practices such as garnishment and levy. Ways and Means Democrats have repeatedly called for a rule to end these practices, which violate Social Security Act statutes explicitly protecting benefits from debt collection in order to ensure that beneficiaries have a basic income. Members have been particularly concerned with the role banks have played in this problem by freezing beneficiaries’ bank accounts containing protected benefits in response to court orders obtained by debt collectors. In the letter, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI), Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND), Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee Chairman Jim McDermott (D-WA) and Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) state that, “The practice of freezing accounts containing these funds undermines the federal statutes, denies beneficiaries a basic income, and can often result in irreversible financial hardship due to fees and penalties assessed by the banks themselves to administer the freezes and in response to consequent overdrawn accounts.” While the Chairmen note that the proposed rule “will help further protect beneficiaries and ensure greater compliance with the federal statutes exempting benefit funds from debt collection,” they also call for critical improvements, including the following: The rule should explicitly protect all exempt Federal funds from fees or penalties arising from garnishment proceedings. The proposed rule appears to permit banks to collect garnishment fees from exempt amounts that are not in the protected amount. The rule should extend the lookback period to longer than 60 days to ensure that a full two months of benefit payments are protected, as the rule intends. The rule should extend the “safe harbor” protection to financial institutions that release or refuse to freeze such clearly exempt funds to encourage banks to release to the beneficiary any clearly exempt funds that are above the amount protected by this rule. The rule should explicitly state that a determination by a bank that an amount is protected from freezing is also a final determination of exemption from garnishment, etc., and cannot be challenged by creditor as collectible. This explicit statement of the finality of this determination will protect beneficiaries and avoid needless legal proceedings against banks. The rule should explicitly state that a beneficiary’s access to the protected funds should not be hindered or otherwise restricted in any way. The proposed rule should provide sufficient clarity for how banks should respond to garnishment or freezing orders. Text of the letter: June 18, 2010 The Honorable Tim GeithnerSecretary of the Treasuryc/o Mr. Gary GrippoDeputy Assistant SecretaryU.S. Department of the Treasury1500 Pennsylvania Ave., NWWashington, DC 20220 RE: Proposed Rule on Garnishment of Bank Accounts Containing Federal Benefit Payments RIN Nos. 3206-AM17, 3220-AB63, 0960-AH18, 1505-AC20 and 2900-AN67 We write to express our appreciation to your responsiveness to the Committee’s request for this rulemaking. We also wish to submit our comments to the proposed rule, which will help ensure that federal benefits exempt from garnishment, levy, assignment and other legal collection proceedings by federal law are not subject to bank freezes. The Committee on Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security held a hearing on this issue in 2008, and has continued its oversight on the efforts made by Treasury and the Social Security Administration in drafting this proposed rule. In May, 2009, Chairman Rangel, Subcommittee Chairmen McDermott and Tanner, along with Chairman Frank of the House Committee on Financial Services, wrote to Secretary Geithner to urge this rulemaking. Again, we thank you and your staff for your efforts. The Social Security Act and other federal statutes explicitly protect Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Railroad Retirement and certain Veterans benefits from debt-collection practices such as garnishment, levy and assignment. Congress established these protections to ensure that these benefits are always available as basic income for retirees, survivors, people with disabilities, and aged or disabled veterans. The practice of freezing accounts containing these funds undermines the federal statutes, denies beneficiaries a basic income, and can often result in irreversible financial hardship due to fees and penalties assessed by the banks themselves to administer the freezes and in response to consequent overdrawn accounts. Enforcement of these statutory protections generally has become the burden of individual beneficiaries, who are often indigent, disabled, or elderly and unable to effectively navigate the legal processes involved, which typically begin with a state court order to freeze their bank account. The rule proposed by Treasury and the various benefit-paying agencies will help further protect beneficiaries and ensure greater compliance with the federal statutes exempting benefit funds from debt collection. We urge that the rule be made final as soon as possible, with a few improvements outlined below as follows: 1) The rule should explicitly protect all exempt federal funds from fees or penalties arising from garnishment proceedings. Section 207 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 407) clearly bars any assignment of Social Security benefits. Therefore, any agreements between the beneficiary and a bank to allow the taking of fees from these amounts in response to a debt collection proceeding contravenes the intent of the statute. 2) The rule should extend the lookback period to longer than 60 days in order to ensure success in carrying out the intent of the rulemakers that two cycles of benefit payments will be protected. Annually, there are only two bi-monthly periods when the 60 day lookback period is sufficient to protect two months’ worth of benefits. All other times, a 60-day lookback period will usually result in only one month’s worth of benefits being protected from freezing. A longer period, such as 65 days, will not have this problem. 3) It is important to encourage banks to release to the beneficiary any clearly exempt funds that are above the amount protected by this rule. For this reason, the rule should extend the “safe harbor” protection to financial institutions who release or refuse to freeze such clearly exempt funds. Often beneficiaries receive large, lump sum retroactive payments (e.g., for a disability claim with an onset date two years prior), and deposit these sums into a saving account, separate from their monthly benefits in a checking account that possibly contains funds co-mingled with non-exempt funds. In such a case, the source of the funds in the savings account are easily determined by the financial institution and should not be frozen or made subject to garnishment or levy. A financial institution that releases these clearly exempt funds to a beneficiary should not be subjected to a frivolous challenge by the creditor or courts. 4) The rule should explicitly state that a determination by a bank that an amount is protected from freezing is also a final determination of exemption from garnishment, etc., and cannot be challenged by creditor as collectible. This explicit statement of the finality of this determination will protect beneficiaries and avoid needless legal proceedings against banks. 5) The rule should explicitly state that a beneficiary’s access to the protected funds should not be hindered or otherwise restricted in any way. The proposed rule should provide sufficient clarity for how banks should respond to garnishment or freezing orders. Further clarity is needed to ensure that financial institutions do not, for example, close beneficiaries’ existing accounts or limit access solely through a single branch office. The Committee is aware that some banks have responded this way under the complicated structure of state- and court-ordered garnishment policies. Such practices contradict the intent of Section 207 and other federal statutes that the beneficiary have access to the basic income provided by the federal benefits. We urge you to make these changes and finalize the proposed rule as soon as possible. Thank you for your consideration. (####)
06.18.2010	(Washington D.C.)- To help residents of the 12th Congressional District access the services provided by his District Office, Congressman Levin's staff will be available to help constituents at the locations listed below after normal business hours. At the office hours residents will be able to seek assistance with federal agencies, ask about legislation or issues of concern, and receive information regarding current congressional activity. Members of the Congressman’s staff will be present to answer questions and collect opinions and concerns to share with the Congressman. Congressman Levin’s office can assist residents having trouble with Social Security and Medicare, Veterans benefits, immigration, tax disputes, and other issues involving federal agencies. More information is available here: https://levin.house.gov/serving-you OFFICE HOURS FOR THE WEEK OF JUNE 21st STAFF Mount Clemens Public Library150 Cass AvenueMt Clemens, MI 48043-2275Tuesday, June 22nd 5:00 – 6:30pm Gerry Kulick Community Center 1201 Livernois StreetFerndale, MI 48220-1853Tuesday, June 22nd 5:00 – 6:30pm Oak Park City Hall13600 Oak Park BoulevardOak Park, MI 48237-2090Tuesday, June 22nd 5:30 – 7:00pm Roseville City Hall29777 South Gratiot AvenueRoseville, MI 48066Wednesday, June 23rd 5:30 – 7:00pm (####)
06.17.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed legislation today to speed loans to small businesses through community bank lending and state collateral support programs. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act [H.R. 5297] passed by a vote of 241 to 182. “I continue to hear from small business owners in Michigan that access to credit is a barrier to job growth,” said Rep. Levin. “The legislation approved today will help small business owners access the capital they need to grow their businesses.” The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act creates a $30 billion fund that will provide capital to community banks to make loans to small businesses. The fund is expected to result in new lending equal to several times the $30 billion in capital available. In addition, the legislation provides $2 billion in funding for new or existing state lending programs. This proposal, the State Small Business Credit Initiative, was developed in part by Representatives Levin, Peters, and Dingell who introduced similar legislation earlier this year after consulting with the Michigan Economic Development Corporation. Last year, the Michigan Economic Development Corporation created the Michigan Supplier Diversification Fund to help manufacturing firms access the capital they need to diversify. The MEDC program helped borrowers directly by providing collateral assistance to firms whose equipment or real estate had dropped in value making them unable to qualify for a loan. The program demonstrated the tremendous need for this type of assistance as the fund quickly used up its initial allocation. “Manufacturers are rapidly adapting to new technology and working to improve their global competitiveness. This funding for state credit programs will directly help borrowers who have been unable to get a loan due to diminished collateral values,” said Rep. Levin. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act is a companion of the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act [H.R. 5297] which passed by a vote of 247-170 on Monday. The legislation, which was authored by Rep. Levin, provides tax cuts for small businesses to help them grow and create new jobs. The combined legislation is fully offset by closing existing tax loopholes and will not add to the deficit. It must now be considered by the Senate. For more information on the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act click here: https://democrats.financialservices.house.gov/ more information on the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act click here: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/press/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=11221 For (####)
06.16.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following opening statement at today’s full Committee hearing on China’s Trade and Industrial Policies: China has experienced dramatic economic growth since Deng Xiaoping first began reforming China’s economy more than 30 years ago. And China’s rise has implications not only for the people of China, but for people all over the world. A strong Chinese economy with a prosperous middle class would enhance the stability of the global economy and give U.S. companies, workers and farmers a huge market for their exports. But to make this promise a reality, China must change its ways. But as China has become a major player in the global community its trade and other policies do not reflect its responsibilities as a global leader in the world economy. China persists in pursuing discriminatory trade and investment policies that benefit China at the expense of its developed and developing country trading partners. Change is necessary. A clear example is its exchange rate policy. Several months ago, this Committee held a hearing on China’s exchange rate policy, a prime example of Chinese mercantilism. Unfortunately, China has made no progress on that issue in the months since our hearing. Seven years of patience from the United States and the international community have run out. The Administration constructively set the G-20 meeting as an important juncture for China to change its inflexible currency practices. If China does not act and the Administration does not respond promptly thereafter, the Congress will act. There are other policies in China that place U.S. companies and workers at a disadvantage, often in clear violation of China’s WTO obligations. They are part and parcel of the overall trend in China’s approach to trade. Today’s hearing is intended to consider and call attention to these policies. We will examine a number of different policies in China: the “indigenous innovation” initiative; the selective use of tax rebates to stimulate certain exports; export restrictions on raw materials; trade-distorting subsidies, discriminatory product standards; the failure to enforce intellectual property rights; weak laws and weak enforcement of labor and environmental laws; state-owned enterprises that discriminate against U.S. companies. All of these policies have a common thread: they have the purpose or the effect of tilting the playing field to favor Chinese companies and against U.S. companies, workers and farmers. That is not a sound or sustainable basis for a mutually beneficial trading relationship. I must add a word about labor conditions in China, given recent news on this subject. Many of us have sought to strengthen labor standards among our trading partners, reflecting basic international rights. Adopting these standards can help to build a prosperous middle class. In terms of trade, the result is increasing numbers who can afford to purchase U.S. exports. Nowhere is the significance of those standards clearer than in China today, where workers lack their fundamental rights and households make up a small and dwindling share of the Chinese economy. Interestingly, a broad range of commentators, including some who have opposed adoption of labor standards in trade, have noted recently that stronger labor standards in China will help China to rebalance its economy, to become a more consumer-driven and less export-driven economy. I hope very much China will begin moving in that direction – beneficial for U.S. exporters and the global economy and crucially beneficial for the working people of China. Over the past decade, the United States experienced its largest trade deficits in our history, and trade with China has been the most significant contributor to that deficit. China has experienced trade surpluses unprecedented for an economy of its size. The United States and China can both benefit from trade, but only if trade is a two-way street. Today, for every dollar in U.S. exports to China, China exports three to four dollars to the United States. That relationship, over time, is unsustainable, and we need to figure out how to put it on a healthier, more sustainable, and mutually beneficial footing. (####)
06.15.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today the House of Representatives approved H.R. 5486, the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act of 2010, by a bipartisan majority of 247-170. The legislation would provide much-needed tax cuts for small businesses to help them grow and create new jobs. H.R. 5486 is companion legislation to H.R. 5297, the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act, which will enhance lending opportunities for small businesses. Both pieces of legislation are fully offset by closing existing tax loopholes and will not add to the deficit. “This bill represents a continuation of our work to spur job creation and improve the quality of life in our communities,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “Small businesses need capital to create jobs and lead our economic recovery and these bills contain important tax cuts and lending opportunities that will help give small business owners the resources and flexibility they need to help their businesses grow.” Provisions in H.R. 5486 include: Small Business Stock Capital Gains: The bill builds on the work done in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and increases the capital game exclusion on investments in small business stock to 100% (from 75% done in the Recovery Act). Small Business Tax Penalty Relief: The bill would alleviate certain onerous, often dramatically disproportionate tax penalties on small businesses. These provisions will help owners of those businesses focus their resources on keeping their workers employed and adding new workers as they grow. Increased Deduction for Start-up Costs: The bill would allow small businesses to deduct up to $20,000 in small business start-up expenses (expenses not related to capital or equipment). By increasing the amount that entrepreneurs can recover up front, the bill will provide greater security and cashflow to grow their businesses and hire new workers. Treat SBA Non-recourse Loans as At-risk: The bill would allow non-recourse SBA loans to qualify for certain exceptions to the at-risk loan rules, allowing business expenditures made under those loans to be deductible against related business income. Please click here for a comprehensive listing of resources related to H.R. 5486, including bill text, summary, and revenue estimates from the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT). (####)
06.11.2010	(Washington D.C.)- To help residents of the 12th Congressional District access the services provided by his District Office, Congressman Levin's staff will be available to help constituents at the locations listed below after normal business hours. At the office hours residents will be able to seek assistance with federal agencies, ask about legislation or issues of concern, and receive information regarding current congressional activity. Members of the Congressman’s staff will be present to answer questions and collect opinions and concerns to share with the Congressman. “I want residents to look to my office as a resource that they can go to for information and assistance whenever they need it,” said Rep. Levin. Congressman Levin’s office can assist residents having trouble with Social Security and Medicare, Veterans benefits, immigration, tax disputes, and other issues involving federal agencies. More information is available here: https://levin.house.gov/serving-you STAFF OFFICE HOURS FOR THE WEEK OF JUNE 14TH Eastpointe City Hall23200 Gratiot AvenueEastpointe, MI 48021Tuesday, June 15 5:30 – 7:00pm Clinton Macomb Public Library - South Branch 35891 South Gratiot AvenueClinton Twp., MI 48035Tuesday, June 15 5:00 - 6:30pm Madison Heights LibraryGroup Study Room240 W. 13 Mile RoadMadison Heights, MI 48071Thursday, June 17 5:00 – 7:00 pm Southfield Public Library 26300 Evergreen Rd.Southfield, MI 48076Thursday, June 17 5:30 – 7:00pm (####)
06.10.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, seniors will begin receiving financial relief to help pay for the cost of prescription drugs as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) delivers the first round of $250 rebate checks to those who fall within the Medicare prescription “donut hole.” These checks are shipping out to seniors three weeks earlier than originally planned. Additional checks will be sent out each month, with an estimated 4 million seniors benefiting from the rebate checks this year. “The checks being sent today not only put money back into seniors’ pockets, but provide peace of mind for many seniors who are struggling financially in this tough economic climate” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI). “Closing the ‘donut hole’ is just one of many substantial provisions enacted under health care reform delivering tangible benefits to Americans by making coverage more affordable.”The checks, provided under the Affordable Care Act, are the first step in completely closing the prescription drug coverage gap that has affected millions of seniors. Beginning in 2011, seniors in the “donut hole” will receive a 50% discount on brand-name prescription drugs, and the “donut hole” should be completely phased out by 2020.Click here for more information on Affordable Care Act. (####)
05.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4213, the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act, legislation that would provide vital tax cuts and support for American workers while also investing in American jobs through tax relief for businesses and investments in infrastructure. “This is a jobs bill,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “It will create more jobs and help sustain the recent job creation and recovery we have seen in recent months. This bill spurs job creation through tax cuts and loan relief to small businesses, as well as bond provisions to fund infrastructure improvements in our cities and towns. This bill provides more than $26 billion in tax relief for families and incentives for businesses and infrastructure improvements to create jobs. We pay for these investments in families and businesses by closing loopholes that encourage companies to ship jobs overseas.” “I ask my Republican colleagues, many of whom have tens, if not hundreds of thousands of unemployed workers in their districts, whose side are you on? Republicans raised the deficit by trillions of dollars to fund tax cuts for the wealthiest among us, and now that we need to assist struggling families, they say we do not have the resources. That is simply unconscionable. Those who vote no are saying no to millions of Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own and continue looking for work, and no to tax relief for families and businesses to create the jobs necessary to move our economy forward.” Provisions included in the legislation would: Provide tax relief to businesses and State and local governments to help them invest and create jobs; Provide important tax cuts to put money back in the pockets of working families; Help restore the flow of credit to enable small businesses to expand and hire new workers by extending small business loan programs; Expand career training programs for Americans who are looking for work; Extend eligibility for unemployment insurance benefits for workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own; Ensure that seniors, military service members and Americans with disabilities continue to have access to doctors they know and trust; and Close tax loopholes for wealthy investment fund managers and foreign operations of multi-national companies. Please click here for resources related to H.R. 4213. A summary of the legislation as approved by the House follows: “The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010”H.R. 4213 May 28, 2010 I. Promoting American Jobs a. Small Business Lending Small Business Administration. The bill would extend the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act small business lending program that eliminates the fees normally charged for loans through the SBA 7(a) and 504 loan programs and increases the government guarantees on 7(a) loans from 75% to 90%. Since its creation, the program has supported over $26 billion in small business lending, which has helped to create or retain over 650,000 jobs. This provision is estimated to cost $505 million over 10 years. b. Infrastructure Investments Build America Bonds (“BABs”). To date, the Build America Bonds program has been used by State and local governments to make $97 billion of infrastructure investments nationwide. The bill would extend this program for two years (through 2012). For direct-pay Build America Bonds issued in 2011, the amount of the direct payment would be reduced from 35% to 32% of the coupon interest. For such bonds issued in 2012, the amount of the direct payment would be reduced to 30% of the coupon interest. The bill would also allow issuers to issue Build America Bonds to effect a current refunding of outstanding Build America Bonds; as a result, issuers and the Federal government could save money if interest rates fall in the future. This provision is estimated to cost $4.042 billion over 10 years. Recovery Zone Bonds (“RZBs”). The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act authorized $10 billion in Recovery Zone economic development bonds and $15 billion in Recovery Zone facility bonds. These bonds could be issued during 2009 and 2010. Each state received a share of the national allocation based on that state’s job losses in 2008 as a percentage of national job losses in 2008, with each state receiving a minimum allocation of these bonds. These allocations were then sub-allocated to local municipalities. Municipalities receiving an allocation of these bonds would be permitted to use these bonds to invest in infrastructure, job training, education, and economic development in areas within the boundaries of the State, city or county (as the case may be) that has significant poverty, unemployment or home foreclosures. Because the formula that was used in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act looked to net job losses instead of unemployment, some areas of the country with significant numbers of unemployed individuals did not receive any allocation of Recovery Zone bonds. The bill would make an additional allocation of Recovery Zone bonds to ensure that each local municipality receives a minimum allocation equal to at least its share of national unemployment in December 2009. The bill would also extend the authorization for issuing Recovery Zone bonds through 2011. This provision is estimated to cost $2.385 billion over 10 years. Water and sewer exempt-facility bonds excluded from state volume caps. Under current law, State agencies are generally subject to a cap with respect to the volume of private activity bonds they may issue. Certain bonds are not subject to these state volume caps. For example, bonds to finance airports, docks and wharves are excluded from state volume caps. Furthermore, qualified veterans’ mortgage bonds and qualified 501(c)(3) bonds are also excluded from state volume caps. The bill would exclude bonds financing facilities that furnish water and sewage facilities from state volume caps. The bill would also exclude bonds financing facilities that furnish water and sewage facilities from certain limitations on tribal government issuances. This provision is estimated to cost $372 million over 10 years. Eliminate costs imposed on State and local governments by the alternative minimum tax. The alternative minimum tax (AMT) can increase the cost to State and local governments of issuing tax-exempt private activity bonds. In general, interest on tax-exempt private activity bonds is generally subject to the AMT. This limits the marketability of these bonds and, therefore, forces State and local governments to issue these bonds at higher interest rates. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act excluded private activity bonds from the AMT if the bond was issued in 2009 or 2010, and allowed AMT relief for current refunding of private activity bonds issued after 2003 and refunded during 2009 and 2010. The bill would extend both of these American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provisions for one year (i.e., exempt from AMT tax-exempt private activity bonds issued in 2011 and current refunding of private activity bonds issued after 2003 and refunded during 2011). This provision is estimated to cost $224 million over 10 years. Direct payment in-lieu-of low-income housing credit for 2010. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the program that was enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that allows state housing agencies to elect to receive a payment in lieu of a portion of the State’s allocation of low-income housing tax credits. This proposal is estimated to cost $11 million over 10 years. Extension of tax-exempt eligibility for loans guaranteed by Federal Home Loan Banks. State and local governments currently face significant costs when issuing tax-exempt municipal bonds to finance state and local projects. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 helped these municipalities by temporarily allowing bonds that are guaranteed by Federal home loan banks to be eligible for treatment as tax-exempt bonds regardless of whether the bonds are used to finance housing programs. Allowing these bonds to be guaranteed by Federal home loan banks has helped State and local governments obtain financing for necessary projects (e.g., constructing roads, repairing bridges, building and renovating schools and hospitals, funding college loans, etc) at a lower cost. The bill would extend this benefit for bonds issued through 2011. This proposal is estimated to cost $148 million over 10 years. Extension of temporary small issuer rules for allocation of tax-exempt interest expense. Under current law, financial institutions are not allowed to take a deduction for the portion of their interest expense that is allocable to such institution’s investments in tax-exempt municipal bonds. For purposes of this interest disallowance rule, bonds that are issued by a “qualified small issuers” are not taken into account as investments in tax-exempt municipal bonds. Under current law, a “qualified small issuer” is defined as any issuer that reasonably anticipates that the amount of its tax-exempt obligations (other than certain private activity bonds) will not exceed $10,000,000. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act increased this dollar threshold to $30,000,000 when determining whether a tax-exempt obligation issued in 2009 and 2010 qualifies for this small issuer exception. The small issuer exception would also apply to an issue if all of the ultimate borrowers in such issue would separately qualify for the exception. For these purposes, the issuer of a qualified 501(c)(3) bond shall be deemed to be the ultimate borrower on whose behalf a bond was issued. The bill would extend this benefit for bonds issued through 2011. This proposal is estimated to cost $254 million over 10 years. Extension of expensing of “brownfields” environmental remediation costs. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows for the expensing of costs associated with cleaning up hazardous “brownfield” sites. This proposal is estimated to cost $158 million over 10 years. Extension of exclusion of gain on the sale or exchange of certain “brownfield” sites from unrelated business taxable income. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that excludes any gain or loss from the qualified sale, exchange, or other disposition of any qualified brownfield property from unrelated business taxable income. This proposal is estimated to cost $54 million over 10 years. Modifications to the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2010. The bill would make two changes to Title IV, the “Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2010,” of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act. First, the bill would distribute the Projects of National and Regional Significance (PNRS) and National Corridor Infrastructure Improvement (National Corridor) program funding so that each State receives a share equal to the greater of either (1) the amount of PNRS and National Corridor program funding that the State received under the HIRE Act or (2) the amount of PNRS and National Corridor funding that the State receives under this Act. The provision authorizes such sums as may be necessary from the Highway Trust Fund to provide these amounts. Second, the bill would distribute “additional” highway formula funds (which the bill makes available in lieu of additional Congressionally-designated projects) among all of the highway formula programs rather than among just six formula programs. c. Business Tax Relief General Business Relief R&D credit. The bill would reinstate for one year (through 2010) the research credit. This proposal is estimated to cost $6.650 billion over 10 years. Refundable AMT credits for corporations making domestic investments. Under current law, corporations are allowed to take a credit against their regular tax liability for previously paid alternative minimum taxes (AMT). However, in order to claim these tax credits, the corporation must be subject to the regular tax instead of the AMT. Many corporations are subject to the AMT for substantial periods of time. As a result, these corporations accumulate substantial AMT credits. The bill would allow corporations to receive a refund of a portion of their AMT credits if they invest during 2010 in capital equipment for use in the United States. This proposal is estimated to cost $2.337 billion over 10 years. Tax benefits for certain real estate developments. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the special 15-year cost recovery period for certain leasehold improvements, restaurant buildings and improvements, and retail improvements. This proposal is estimated to cost $4.851 billion over 10 years. Active financing exception. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the active financing exception from Subpart F of the tax code. This proposal is estimated to cost $3.923 billion over 10 years. Look-through treatment of payments between related controlled foreign corporations. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the current law look-through treatment of payments between related controlled foreign corporations. This proposal is estimated to cost $574 million over 10 years. Employer wage credit for activated military reservists. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that provides eligible small business employers with a credit against the taxpayer’s income tax liability for a taxable year in an amount equal to twenty percent (20%) of the sum of differential wage payments to activated military reservists. This proposal is estimated to cost $4 million over 10 years. Five-year depreciation for farming business machinery and equipment. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that provides a five-year recovery period for certain machinery and equipment which is used in a farming business. This proposal is revenue neutral over 10 years. Tax Relief for Businesses in Economically-Depressed Areas New Markets Tax Credit. Through the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) program, the federal government is able to leverage federal tax credits to encourage significant private investment in businesses in low-income communities. For each dollar of qualified private investment, the NMTC program provides investors with either 5 cents or 6 cents of federal tax credits (depending on the amount of time that has passed since the original investment was made). The value of these tax credits depends on a taxpayer’s ability to use these credits to offset tax liability. The NMTC program will not encourage investors to make investments in low-income communities if these investors are unable to use these credits to offset tax liability. Taxpayers that are subject to the alternative minimum tax (AMT) are unable to use NMTC to offset their AMT tax liability. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the new markets tax credit, permitting a maximum annual amount of qualified equity investments of $5 billion. In order to ensure that the NMTC encourages AMT taxpayers to make qualifying investments, the bill would also allow NMTC to be claimed against the AMT with respect to qualified investments made between March 15, 2010 and January 1, 2012. This provision is estimated to cost $1.792 billion over 10 years. Empowerment Zones. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the designation of certain economically depressed census tracts as Empowerment Zones. Businesses and individual residents within Empowerment Zones are eligible for special tax incentives. This proposal is estimated to cost $304 million over 10 years. Renewal Communities. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the designation of certain economically depressed census tracts as Renewal Communities. Businesses and individual residents within Renewal Communities are eligible for special tax incentives. This proposal is estimated to cost $621 million over 10 years. District of Columbia Enterprise Zone. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the designation of certain economically depressed census tracts within the District of Columbia as the District of Columbia Enterprise Zone. Businesses and individual residents within this enterprise zone are eligible for special tax incentives. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the $5,000 first-time homebuyer credit for the District of Columbia. This proposal is estimated to cost $85 million over 10 years. Tax Relief for Tribal Businesses Indian employment credit. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the business tax credit for employers of qualified employees that work and live on or near an Indian reservation. The amount of the credit is 20 percent of the excess of wages and health insurance costs paid to qualified employees (up to $20,000 per employee) in the current year over the amount paid in 1993. This proposal is estimated to cost $49 million over 10 years. Accelerated depreciation for business property on an Indian reservation. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the placed-in-service date for the special depreciation recovery period for qualified Indian reservation property. In general, qualified Indian reservation property is property used predominantly in the active conduct of a trade or business within an Indian reservation, which is not used outside the reservation on a regular basis and was not acquired from a related person. This proposal is estimated to cost $123 million over 10 years. Tax Relief for Businesses in Territories and Possessions Deduction allowable with respect to income attributable to domestic production activities in Puerto Rico. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision extending the section 199 domestic production activities deduction to activities in Puerto Rico. This proposal is estimated to cost $185 million over 10 years. American Samoa economic development support. Existing possessions credit corporations with active business operations in American Samoa were allowed an economic development tax credit to offset their U.S. tax liability on income earned in American Samoa from active business operations. This credit was based on the corporation’s employment and capital investment in American Samoa. As a result of the economic downturn, those domestic corporations have been unable to utilize the economic development credit. The bill would provide a payment to the American Samoa Government for stimulating economic development in American Samoa in an amount equal to the cost of the economic development credit. This proposal is estimated to cost $18 million over 10 years. d. Pension Provisions Temporary Single Employer Plan Funding Relief Extended period for single employer defined benefit plans to amortize certain shortfall amortization bases. Present law provides for a 7-year amortization period in the case of a funding shortfall. The provision would permit single employer defined benefit plan sponsors to elect an extended 9-year amortization period with interest only being paid in the first 2 years. Alternatively, the plan sponsor may elect a 15-year amortization period. Under the provision, the plan’s funding obligation for a plan year is increased if the sponsoring employer makes excessive employee or shareholder payments. The provision generally allows plan sponsors to elect relief for up to two plan years during the four-plan-year period from 2008 to 2011. Application of extended amortization period to plans subject to prior law funding rules. The provision provides for funding relief for plans that are subject to the prior law funding rules (i.e., plans not yet subject to the requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA)). Under the provision, a plan sponsor may elect to calculate its minimum required contribution without regard to the deficit reduction contribution rules for up to 2 plan years. The provision provides for an alternative election under which a plan may instead amortize funding liability under a 15-year payment schedule for one plan year. The provision generally allows plan sponsors to elect relief for plan years beginning during the three-plan-year period from 2009 to 2011. The provision also amends the PPA by allowing certain charity plans to elect to be temporarily covered by prior law funding rules. Suspension of certain funding level limitations. Present law provides that benefit accruals under a pension plan must cease, and certain prohibited payments may not be made, if the plan’s funded percentage falls below 60 percent. The Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (WRERA), permitted a plan to use its pre-financial crisis funded percentage in applying the accrual restriction rule for the first plan year beginning after September 30, 2008. The provision extends the WRERA relief for plan years beginning through 2011, allowing single employer defined benefit plans to use their funded percentage for the last plan year ending before September 30, 2009. The provision also permits the payment of benefits in the form of a social security leveling payment, which would otherwise be a prohibited payment for an underfunded plan, for 2010 and 2011. In the case of plant shutdown benefits, present law also requires employers to waive any credit balances that arise from pre-funding in order to avoid funding based restrictions on the payment of the shutdown benefits. The provision temporarily permits employers to make a contribution to the plan in the amount of the shutdown benefits in lieu of waiving credit balances. Temporary allowance of election to apply balances against minimum required contribution. Under present law, an employer may maintain a credit balance of contributions that it makes in excess of required minimum contributions, and such credits generally may be used in lieu of later year required minimum contributions unless the plan is less than 80 percent funded. The provision allows an employer to use its credit balances for the period of 2009 to 2011 if the plan was at least 80 percent funded prior to the financial crisis. Information reporting. Under present law, sponsors of pension plans are required to report additional information relating to the sponsor and the plan’s finances to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) if the plan’s funded percentage is below 80 percent. The provision modifies the reporting requirement by requiring additional reporting if aggregate unfunded vested benefits of plans maintained by the sponsor exceed $75 million. Rollover of amounts received in airline carrier bankruptcy. The provision permits qualified airline employees to rollover bankruptcy settlement amounts to a traditional IRA (present law permits rollover of such settlements to a Roth IRA), and to recharacterize a prior contribution of a settlement amount to a Roth IRA as a contribution to a traditional IRA. Temporary Multiemployer Plan Funding Relief Optional use of 30-year amortization periods. Under present law, multiemployer pension plans must amortize net experience losses over a 15-year period. The provision would permit plans to elect a 30-year amortization period for certain losses incurred in either or both of the first 2 plan years ending on or after June 30, 2008. The 30-year amortization extension is not available unless the plan is projected not to have a decrease in its funded percentage in 15 years. If a plan elects the extended amortization periods, benefit increases are restricted for a two-year period, unless the plan actuary certifies that increases are fully paid for by additional contributions by the plan sponsor and certain funding levels are projected to be met. The provision also extends the maximum smoothing period for determining plan asset values from 5 years to 10 years for the either or both of the first 2 plan years ending on or after June 30, 2008. Optional longer recovery periods for multiemployer plans in endangered or critical status. Under present law, certain underfunded multiemployer pension plans must improve their funding levels over a 10-year funding improvement period (15 years in the case of a seriously endangered plan) or a 10-year rehabilitation period. WRERA permitted a 3-year extension of these periods. The provision extends the WRERA relief so as to permit up to a 5-year extension of these periods (up to an additional 2 years for plans that elected WRERA relief). Modification of certain amortization extensions under prior law. Prior to the PPA, amortization waivers were granted by the Internal Revenue Service to multiemployer pension plans, subject to the condition that the plans demonstrate funding improvement over a specified period. Under the provision, for purposes of determining whether these funding-based conditions have been met, plans with such extensions may treat the return on plan assets for plan years that contain any of the period from June 30, 2008 to October 31, 2008 as the interest rate used for charges and credits to the plan’s funding standard account. Alternative default schedule for plans in endangered or critical status. Under the PPA, a default contribution schedule applies in the case of certain underfunded plans if the collective bargaining parties fail to reach agreement on a contribution schedule. Under the provision, the plan trustees may elect to use as the default schedule the contribution schedule that has been approved by the bargaining parties and that covers at least 75 percent of the employees actively participating in the plan. The provision is effective for designations of default schedules on or after the date of enactment. Pursuant to section 221 of the PPA, the provision does not apply to plan years beginning after December 31, 2014. Transition rule for certifications of plan status. This provision provides transition rules with respect to certifications of a plan’s funded status for plans whose certifications are due after the date of enactment and for certain plans whose most recent certification does not take into account an election to take funding relief with respect to a plan year that begins on or after October 1, 2009. The provisions listed under “Single Employer Plan Funding Relief” and “Multiemployer Plan Funding Relief” are estimated to raise $1.987 billion over 10 years Defined Contribution Plan Fee Disclosure. This provision amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to provide disclosure rules relating to fees incurred in connection with defined contribution plans (such as 401(k) plans) to plan administrators and plan participants. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that these provisions will have a negligible revenue effect. Disclosures to Plan Administrators. Service providers are required, before entering into a contract or arrangement with a plan administrator (and for each year subsequent to the initial contract year), to provide a written statement to the plan administrator describing the services to be provided and the total annual revenue to be collected by the service provider in connection with the plan (disclosed in dollar amounts or as a formula). Additional required information includes the allocation of revenue among three categories, (1) administration and recordkeeping services, (2) investment management, and (3) other services; the Secretary of Labor is directed to develop safe harbors and other guidance on the allocation of revenue among the categories. Service providers with contracts less than $5,000 in the aggregate are exempt from the disclosure provisions described above. Disclosures to Plan Participants. Prior to an employee’s eligibility to participate in a plan, the plan administrator must provide an employee with a notice describing the plan and key characteristics of each investment option in the plan. The notice to the employee must also include a plan fee comparison chart. A plan administrator must also provide employees with a quarterly benefit statement that includes information on each investment option in which the employee is invested. Small plans may provide the benefits statement on an annual rather than quarterly basis. e. Summer Jobs Summer jobs. The bill would support over 350,000 jobs for youth ages 14 to 24 through summer employment programs. This age group has some of the highest unemployment levels – 25% unemployment for those aged 16 to 19. This funding will allow local Workforce Investment Boards to expand successful summer jobs programs that were funded in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. This provision is estimated to cost $1 billion over 10 years. f. Trade Provisions Trade Adjustment Assistance for Communities – Community College and Career Training Grant Program. Under current law, this Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program provides grants to educational institutions to develop, offer and improve education and career training programs for workers eligible for TAA. In the 2010 Reconciliation, the program received $500 million a year in mandatory funding for FY2011, FY2012, FY2013 and FY2014. The provisions included in the bill would expand the program by authorizing such grants to also benefit individuals who are eligible for unemployment insurance, who are likely to be eligible for unemployment insurance or who have exhausted their unemployment insurance. Additionally, the provisions would: (1) clarify that only public and non-profit educational institutions are eligible for grants; (2) authorize the Department of Labor to spend up to five percent of program funds to administer, evaluate and establish reporting systems for the program; and (3) give the Department of Labor more flexibility by allowing it to obligate grant funds in the year that they are appropriated as well as the subsequent fiscal year. These changes do not score. Wool Trust Fund. In 2000, Congress enacted a grant and tariff relief program for the U.S. wool industry. The legislation created a “wool trust fund,” which provides payments to U.S. suit makers to compensate for the competitive damage to the U.S. suit industry caused by an inverted tariff. (Inverted tariffs occur when the duty on a finished product (e.g., a suit) is lower than the duty on the inputs (e.g., fabric) used to make the finished product.) The wool trust fund also makes payments to U.S. wool fabric and yarn producers, as well as sheep growers, to encourage more U.S. production of wool fabrics. The trust fund is funded through the revenue collected from tariffs on wool textile imports (primarily yarns and fabrics). The wool trust fund and tariff relief package was reauthorized in 2008. In 2008 and 2009, the revenue generated through wool fabric/yarn tariffs shrank considerably, resulting in much lower payments to U.S. wool suit producers and other recipients under the program. To address the immediate shortfall, the provision in the bill would use revenue generated from tariffs on other apparel products to fund the wool trust fund at the level authorized in 2004. This provision, which does not score, would ensure that thousands of textile and apparel workers remain employed. Cotton Trust Fund. In 2006, as part of the last miscellaneous tariff bill, Congress enacted a program for U.S. cotton shirt manufacturers to respond to a commercial disadvantage caused by an inverted tariff. The legislation created a “cotton trust fund,” which provides payments to U.S. shirt makers and U.S. cotton fabric and yarn producers, and created a pima cotton promotion program. The trust fund is funded through the revenue collected from tariffs on cotton textiles imports (primarily yarns and fabrics). The legislation also includes duty suspensions and reductions on high-end cotton fabrics and yarns, subject to quantitative limitations. The authority to transfer tariff revenue to the trust fund expired on October 1, 2008, and the duty suspensions expired on December 31, 2009. The provision included in the bill would reauthorize the program until December 31, 2013. The provision is estimated to cost $53 million over three years and would ensure that more than 800 textile and apparel workers remain employed. II. Relief for Working Families a. Individual Tax Cuts Deduction of State and local general sales taxes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the election to take an itemized deduction for State and local general sales taxes in lieu of the itemized deduction permitted for State and local income taxes. This proposal is estimated to cost $1.800 billion over 10 years. Additional standard deduction for real property taxes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the additional standard deduction for State and local real property taxes. This proposal is estimated to cost $1.551 billion over 10 years. Above-the-line deduction for qualified tuition and related expenses. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the above-the-line tax deduction for qualified education expenses. This proposal is estimated to cost $693 million over 10 years. Above-the-line deduction for certain expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the $250 above-the-line tax deduction for teachers and other school professionals for expenses paid or incurred for books, supplies (other than non-athletic supplies for courses of instruction in health or physical education), computer equipment (including related software and service), other equipment, and supplementary materials used by the educator in the classroom. This proposal is estimated to cost $215 million over 10 years. b. Unemployment Insurance Extension of Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program is scheduled to phase-out at the end of May 2010. This program provides (depending on a State’s unemployment rate) up to fifty-three (53) weeks of extended benefits. The bill would extend the EUC program through November 2010. Extension of Extended Benefits (EB) program. 100% Federal funding for the Extended Benefits (EB) program is scheduled to phase-out at the end of May 2010. This program provides up to an additional 13 to 20 weeks of benefits in certain States (i.e., 13 weeks for States at or above 6.5% unemployment and another 7 weeks for States at or above 8% unemployment). The bill would extend full funding for the EB program through November 2010. Extension of Federal Additional Compensation (FAC). Federal Additional Compensation, which increases unemployment benefits by $25 a week, is scheduled to phase-out at the end of May 2010. The bill would extend FAC through November 2010. Eliminating the penalty for part-time employment in the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program. The legislation coordinates EUC Benefits with regular Benefits by providing States with a number of options to allow EUC claimants to remain eligible for the EUC program when they become newly entitled to State unemployment compensation if switching to State benefits would reduce their weekly UI check by at least $100 or 25 percent. The four provisions immediately above are estimated to cost $39.8 billion over 10 years. c. TANF Jobs and Emergency Fund Extension of TANF jobs and emergency fund. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act created an Emergency Contingency Fund (ECF) within the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program to help States with increasing expenditures on: basic assistance for families in the TANF program; short-term, one-time aid for needy families; and subsidized employment programs (such programs temporarily pay for all or part of the wages of a worker in a public or private job). This emergency fund is now scheduled to expire on September 30, 2010, which will lead some States to shut down ECF-funded subsidized employment programs even earlier. (These programs are scheduled to fund 185,000 jobs by the end of September.) The bill would provide $2.5 billion to extend this fund through FY 2011, as well as clarify certain program rules, such as eligibility for workers exhausting unemployment benefits. This provision is estimated to cost $2.48 billion over 10 years. d. Veterans Concurrent Receipt Veterans concurrent receipt. The bill would allow for two years concurrent receipt of both DOD military retirement pay and VA military disability pay. No other federal employees are required to offset their federal retirement benefits if they also receive VA disability compensation. Disability is to compensate for the impact on quality of life, an issue that military retired pay does not address. This provision is estimated to cost $686 million over 10 years. e. National Housing Trust Fund National Housing Trust Fund. The bill would provide a one-time capitalization of the National Housing Trust Fund (NHTF), which will provide communities with funds to build, preserve, and rehabilitate rental homes that are affordable for very low income households. These homes will help address the serious shortage of affordable housing for lowest income families, including people who are unemployed or employed in the low wage work force, veterans, and elderly and disabled people on fixed incomes. It is estimated that an infusion of $1 billion in capital funds into the NHTF and $65 million for project-based vouchers to couple with NHTF capital grants will support the immediate production of 10,000 rental homes, creating 15,000 new construction jobs and 4,000 new jobs in ongoing operations. This provision is estimated to cost $1.065 billion over 10 years. f. Hold Harmless Provisions for Low-Income Families Extension of poverty line hold harmless. Every year, HHS updates the federal poverty line according to changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI). The negative CPI for 2009 would have therefore had the effect of slightly lowering the official poverty guidelines in 2010. This in turn could reduce access for programs such as Medicaid and food stamps that use a percentage of the poverty line to determine eligibility. The legislation would continue the current short-term hold harmless provision through 2010 (which ensures the current poverty line can be no lower than the poverty line in 2009). This provision is estimated to cost $317 million over 10 years. Uniform tax disregard for federally-funded programs. The legislation would exclude federal tax refunds from income in the month received and from resources for FY2010 for the purpose of determining eligibility for federal or federally-assisted programs. This single standard would replace the various disregards that now apply to certain tax credits. This provision is estimated to cost $2 million over 10 years. III. Disaster Response a. Oil Spill Response Increase Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund liability cap. Analysts estimate that the cost of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico could exceed $14 billion. The companies that caused this oil spill are responsible for all of the costs of cleanup and up to $75 million of additional damages. These companies are responsible for all additional damages if they are found to be grossly negligent, to have engaged in willful misconduct, or to have violated an applicable Federal safety, construction or operating regulation. To the extent that costs are not borne by the parties responsible for the spill, up to $1 billion of additional damage costs (including up to $500 million of natural resource damage assessments) associated with an oil spill can be offset by funds in the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. The Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund is an insurance fund that is financed by a per-barrel tax imposed on the oil industry. In order to ensure that individuals, businesses and communities that suffer damages as a result of oil spills are not left uncompensated, the bill would increase the $1 billion liability cap on the Oil Spill Liability Trust fund to $5 billion (including up to $2.5 billion of natural resource damage assessments). The cost of this proposal is included in the estimate below. Increase Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund solvency. The Oil Spill Liability Trust fund is financed by an 8-cent-per-barrel tax on the oil industry. There is approximately $1.5 billion available in this trust fund. The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service has stated, “a major spill, particularly one in a sensitive environment, could threaten the viability of the fund.” To ensure the continued solvency of the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, the bill would increase the per-barrel amount that oil companies are required to pay into the fund to 34 cents. This proposal and the proposal immediately above are estimated to raise $10.785 billion over 10 years. b. National Flood Insurance Extension of National Flood Insurance. Since its creation in the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) has been the primary source of reliable flood insurance coverage for millions of American homes and businesses. The NFIP is authorized to write and renew flood insurance coverage through May 31, 2010. The bill would extend the NFIP's authority to write and renew flood insurance coverage through December 31, 2010 and help provide needed stability in the nation's housing markets. This provision is estimated to have no cost. c. Mine Safety Mine rescue team training credit. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the credit for training mine rescue team members and would allow this credit to be claimed against the AMT. This proposal is estimated to cost $7 million over 10 years. Election to expense advanced mine safety equipment. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that provides businesses with fifty percent (50%) bonus depreciation for certain qualified underground mine safety equipment. This proposal is estimated to be revenue neutral over 10 years. d. Federally-Declared Disaster Areas Expanded and enhanced casualty loss deductions relating to federal disasters. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows taxpayers who have suffered loss as a result of a Federally-declared disaster to claim a deduction for casualty losses (i.e., both itemizers and non-itemizers) and would allow these taxpayers to calculate their casualty loss deduction without regard to their adjusted gross income. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the current law $500 per loss threshold. This proposal is estimated to cost $728 million over 10 years. Expensing of qualified disaster expenses. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows businesses that have been affected by a Federally-declared disaster to currently deduct demolition, repair, clean-up, and environmental remediation expenses (“Qualified Disaster Expenses”). This proposal is estimated to cost $31 million over 10 years. Five-year carry-back period for certain losses relating to federal disasters. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows businesses to carry back to the previous five years the following losses: (1) casualty losses that are attributable to a Federally-declared disaster; and (2) Qualified Disaster Expenses. This proposal is estimated to cost $120 million over 10 years. Relaxed mortgage revenue bond limitations for federal disasters. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows states to waive certain rules that limit their ability to use tax-exempt housing bonds to provide loans to taxpayers that wish to acquire residences in Federally-declared disaster areas. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows states to use their tax-exempt housing bonds to provide loans to repair or reconstruct homes and rental housing units that have been rendered unsafe for use as a residence by reason of a Federally-declared disaster or have been demolished or relocated by reason of government order on account of a Federally-declared disaster. Such loans are limited to the lower of (1) the actual cost of the repair or reconstruction or (2) $150,000. This proposal is estimated to cost $21 million over 10 years. Bonus depreciation for qualified disaster property. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that permits businesses that suffered damage as a result of a Federally-declared disaster to claim an additional first-year depreciation deduction equal to 50 percent of the cost of new real and personal property investments made in the Presidentially-declared disaster area. This proposal and the proposal immediately below are estimated to cost $1.457 billion over 10 years. Increased small business expensing for expenditures relating to federal disasters. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that increases by $100,000 (or the cost of qualified property, if less) the amount of expensing available for qualifying expenditures made in a Federally-declared disaster area. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that increases by $600,000 (or the cost of qualified property, if less) the level of investment at which the small business expensing benefits phase-out. The cost of this proposal is included in the description of the proposal immediately above. e. Agriculture Disaster Relief Agriculture Disaster Relief. The bill would provide assistance for 2009 agricultural losses for crops, including specialty crops, livestock, sugar, aquaculture, cottonseed, and poultry. In addition to approximately $1 billion in supplemental direct payments to producers with a minimum 5-percent loss in production, the bill would provide $42 million in cottonseed assistance, $25 million in aquaculture assistance, $21 million to a Hawaiian sugar cane cooperative, $75 million to poultry producers, $50 million for livestock producers, and $300 million for specialty crop producers. The program is designed for payments to be issued quickly through USDA and State block grants. This provision is estimated to cost $1.479 billion over ten years. f. Other Expiring Disaster Relief Provisions Extension of tax incentives for the New York Liberty Zone. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the special depreciation allowance for certain real property within the New York Liberty Zone and the time for issuing New York Liberty Zone bonds. This proposal is estimated to cost $152 million over 10 years. Extend Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) for Hurricane Katrina Employees. The bill would extend for one year (through August 28, 2010) the work opportunity tax credit for certain employers hiring in the Hurricane Katrina core disaster area. This proposal is estimated to cost $7 million over 10 years. Extension of increased rehabilitation credit for historic structures in the Gulf Opportunity Zone. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the increased rehabilitation credit for qualified expenditures in the Gulf Opportunity Zone. The Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 increased the rehabilitation credit from 10 percent to 13 percent of qualified expenditures for any qualified rehabilitated building other than a certified historic structure, and from 20 percent to 26 percent of qualified expenditures for any certified historic structure. This proposal is estimated to cost $43 million over 10 years. Two-year extension of Gulf Opportunity Zone low-income housing placed-in-service date. The Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 provided an additional allocation of low-income housing tax credits to the Gulf Opportunity Zone in an amount equal to the product of $18.00 multiplied by the portion of the State population which is in the Gulf Opportunity Zone. The additional allocations were made in calendar years 2006, 2007, and 2008, and required that the properties be placed in service before January 1, 2011. The bill would extend that placed-in-service date by two years (through 2012). This proposal is estimated to cost $357 million over 10 years. IV. Domestic Energy Extension of tax incentives for biodiesel and renewable diesel. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the $1.00 per gallon production tax credit for biodiesel and the small agri-biodiesel producer credit of 10 cents per gallon. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the $1.00 per gallon production tax credit for diesel fuel created from biomass. This proposal is estimated to cost $868 million over 10 years. Credit for electricity produced at certain open-loop biomass facilities. The bill would extend the credit period under the production tax credit for electricity produced at open-loop biomass facilities that were placed in service prior to January 1, 2005 from five years to six years. In the sixth year, the credit provided to these facilities is reduced by twenty-percent (20%). This proposal is estimated to cost $84 million over 10 years. Extension of the alternative motor vehicle credit for heavy hybrids. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the alternative motor vehicle credit for heavy hybrids (i.e., hybrid motor vehicles that are not passenger automobiles or light trucks). This proposal is estimated to cost $8 million over 10 years. Extension of tax incentive for liquid fuels derived from biomass, biogas, natural gas and propane used as a fuel in transportation vehicles. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the $0.50 per gallon alternative fuel tax credit for liquid fuels derived from biomass, compressed or liquefied biogas, natural gas and propane. The bill would not extend this credit any liquid fuel derived from a pulp or paper manufacturing process (i.e., black liquor). This proposal is estimated to cost $96 million over 10 years. Extension of steel industry fuel tax credit. The bill would extend the placed-in-service date for the $2.83 per barrel-of-oil equivalent tax credit for steel industry fuel by one year (through 2010) and would allow facilities that qualify for the tax credit to receive this benefit for the first two years from the date that the facility is placed in service. This proposal is estimated to cost $44 million over 10 years. Extension of coke and coke gas production tax credit. The bill would extend the placed-in-service date for the $3.36 credit per barrel-of-oil equivalent of coke or coke gas by one year (through 2010). This proposal is estimated to cost $21 million over 10 years. Extension of energy-efficient new homes credit. The bill would extend the tax credit for manufacturers of energy-efficient residential homes for one year (through 2010). This proposal is estimated to cost $66 million over 10 years. Energy-efficient windows. In order to claim the section 25C tax credit for energy-efficient windows, taxpayers must purchase windows that meet certain specifications. Many have raised concerns that the current specifications fail to account for different climate regions in the United States. Recently, the EPA updated the Energy Star requirements to take these climate regions into account. The bill would link eligibility for the tax credit to the Energy Star requirements. This proposal is estimated to cost $145 million over 10 years. Direct payment in lieu of energy-efficient appliance tax credit. The bill would allow manufacturers of energy-efficient appliances to elect to receive a direct payment in lieu of the section 45M energy-efficient appliance tax credit. The direct payment would be equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the tax credit that would otherwise have been allowed under section 45M. This proposal is estimated to cost $69 million over 10 years. Extension of special rule for sales of electric transmission property. The bill would extend for one year (for sales prior to January 1, 2011) the present law deferral of gain on sales of transmission property by vertically integrated electric utilities to FERC-approved independent transmission companies. Rather than recognizing the full amount of gain in the year of sale, this provision would allow gain on such sales to be recognized ratably over an eight-year period. This proposal is revenue neutral over 10 years. Extension of special rule for percentage depletion for marginal wells. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the suspension on the taxable income limit for purposes of depleting a marginal oil or gas well. This proposal is estimated to cost $103 million over 10 years V. Extension of Other Expiring Tax Provisions a. Charitable Provisions Extension of provision encouraging contributions of capital gain real property for conservation purposes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the increased contribution limits and carryforward period for contributions of appreciated real property (including partial interests in real property) for conservation purposes. This proposal is estimated to cost $190 million over 10 years. Extension of enhanced charitable deduction for contributions of food inventory. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision allowing businesses to claim an enhanced deduction for the contribution of food inventory. This proposal is estimated to cost $78 million over 10 years. Extension of enhanced charitable deduction for contributions of book inventories to public schools. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision allowing C corporations to claim an enhanced deduction for contributions of book inventory to public schools (kindergarten through grade 12). This proposal is estimated to cost $31 million over 10 years. Extension of enhanced charitable deduction for corporate contributions of computer equipment for educational purposes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that encourages businesses to contribute computer equipment and software to elementary, secondary, and post-secondary schools by allowing an enhanced deduction for such contributions. This proposal is estimated to cost $195 million over 10 years. Extension of tax-free distributions from individual retirement plans for charitable purposes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that permits tax-free distributions to charity from an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) of up to $100,000 per taxpayer, per taxable year. This proposal is estimated to cost $627 million over 10 years. Extension of special tax treatment of certain payments to controlling exempt organizations. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the special rules for interest, rents, royalties and annuities received by a tax exempt entity from a controlled entity. This proposal is estimated to cost $20 million over 10 years. Extension of special rule for S corporations making charitable contributions of property. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision allowing S corporation shareholders to take into account their pro rata share of charitable deductions even if such deductions would exceed such shareholder’s adjusted basis in the S corporation. This proposal is estimated to cost $39 million over 10 years. b. Miscellaneous Extension of 7-year straight line cost recovery period for motorsports entertainment complexes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the special 7-year cost recovery period for property used for land improvement and support facilities at motorsports entertainment complexes. This proposal is estimated to cost $38 million over 10 years. Extension of timber REIT provisions. In 2007, Congress provided special rules for real estate investment trusts (REITs) that earn timber income. These provisions allowed REITs that were engaged in a timber business to meet various REIT qualification rules. These special rules were effective only for the first taxable year of the REIT that began after May 22, 2008 and before May 22, 2009. The bill would extend these special rules for any taxable year beginning on or before December 31, 2010. This proposal is estimated to cost $7 million over 10 years. Extension of railroad track maintenance credit. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the railroad track maintenance credit. This proposal is estimated to cost $165 million over 10 years. Extension of special expensing rules for U.S. film and television productions. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows film and television producers to expense the first $15 million of production costs incurred in the United States ($20 million if the costs are incurred in economically depressed areas in the United States). This proposal is estimated to cost $46 million over 10 years. Extension of special rules for regulated investment companies. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the tax treatment of interest-related dividends, short-term capital gain dividends, and other special rules applicable to foreign shareholders that invest in regulated investment companies. These proposals are estimated to cost $94 million over 10 years. Extension of temporary increase in limit on cover over of rum excise tax revenues to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision providing for payment of $13.25 per gallon to cover over a $13.50 per proof gallon excise tax on distilled spirits produced in or imported into the United States. This proposal is estimated to cost $131 million over 10 years. Study of extended tax expenditures. The bill would direct the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation to submit a report to the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Finance on each tax expenditure extended by this Act. This proposal has no revenue effect. VI. Closing Foreign Tax Loopholes Summary. The bill includes a package of provisions developed jointly by the Treasury Department, the Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee to curtail abuses of the U.S. foreign tax credit system and other targeted abuses. This system is intended to ensure that U.S.-based multinational companies are not subject to double taxation. However, taxpayers have taken advantage of the U.S. foreign tax credit system to reduce the U.S. tax due on completely unrelated foreign income in a manner that has nothing to do with eliminating double taxation. The bill would eliminate $14.451 billion of foreign tax credit loopholes. Rules to prevent splitting foreign tax credits from income. To prevent double taxation (i.e., full taxation by both a foreign country and by the United States on the same item of income), taxpayers are permitted to claim foreign tax credits with respect to foreign taxes paid on income earned offshore. Taxpayers have devised several techniques for splitting foreign taxes from the foreign income on which those taxes were paid. With these techniques, the foreign income remains offshore and untaxed by the United States, while the foreign taxes are currently available in the U.S. to offset U.S. tax that is due on other foreign source income. In many cases, the foreign income is permanently reinvested offshore such that it likely will never be repatriated and taxed in the U.S. This use of foreign tax credits has nothing to do with relieving double taxation. The President’s FY2011 Budget proposes to adopt a matching rule to prevent the separation of creditable foreign taxes from the associated foreign income. The bill would adopt the President’s Budget proposal by implementing a matching rule that would suspend the recognition of foreign tax credits until the related foreign income is taken into account for U.S. tax purposes. The bill targets abusive techniques and does not affect timing differences that result from normal tax accounting differences between foreign and U.S. tax rules. The provision would apply to all “split” foreign taxes claimed by taxpayers after the date of introduction. This proposal is estimated to raise $6.325 billion over 10 years. Denial of foreign tax credit with respect to foreign income not subject to United States taxation by reason of covered asset acquisitions. There are certain rules that permit taxpayers to treat a stock acquisition as an asset acquisition under U.S. tax law. Taxpayers can obtain similar results by acquiring interests in entities that are treated as corporations for foreign tax purposes, but as non-corporate entities (such as partnerships) for U.S. tax purposes. These transactions (“covered asset acquisitions”) result in a step-up in the basis of the assets of the acquired entity to the fair market value that was paid for the stock (or interest in the business entity). In the foreign context, this step-up usually exists only for U.S. tax purposes, and not for foreign tax purposes. As a result, depreciation for U.S. tax purposes exceeds depreciation for foreign tax purposes, such that the U.S. taxable base is lower than foreign taxable base. Because foreign taxes – and therefore foreign tax credits – are based on the foreign taxable base, there are more foreign tax credits than are necessary to avoid double tax on the U.S. tax base. Taxpayers are using these additional foreign tax credits to reduce taxes imposed on other, completely unrelated foreign income. The bill would prevent taxpayers from claiming the foreign tax credit with respect to foreign income that is never subject to U.S. taxation because of a covered asset acquisition. The provision would generally apply to related party transactions occurring after the date of introduction and unrelated party transactions occurring after the date of enactment. This proposal is estimated to raise $4.025 billion over 10 years. Separate application of foreign tax credit limitation to items resourced under tax treaties. To prevent double taxation (i.e., full taxation by both a foreign country and by the United States on the same item of income), taxpayers are permitted to claim foreign tax credits with respect to foreign taxes paid on income earned offshore. To appropriately limit use of the foreign tax credit system to avoidance of double taxation, foreign tax credits are limited to the maximum amount of U.S. tax that could be imposed on the taxpayer’s foreign source income (i.e., thirty-five percent (35%) of the taxpayer’s foreign source income). Taxpayers have devised a technique to use the U.S. treaty network to enhance foreign tax credit utilization – well beyond what is needed to avoid double taxation – by artificially inflating foreign source income. With this technique, ownership of income-producing assets that would ordinarily be held by U.S.-based multinational companies in the United States (e.g., investments in U.S. securities) is shifted to foreign branches and disregarded entities. This income is often lightly taxed on a net basis by the foreign country, but the treaty prevails in categorizing the entire gross amount of the income generated by the U.S. assets as foreign source. This artificially inflates the taxpayer’s foreign source income and allows the taxpayer to use foreign tax credits to reduce taxes on foreign source income beyond the maximum amount of U.S. tax that could be imposed on such income. This unintended tax planning technique has nothing to do with relieving double taxation. The bill respects the treaty commitment to treating such income as foreign source, but segregates the income so that it is not the basis for claiming foreign tax credits that have nothing to do with double taxation. In doing so, the bill conforms the foreign tax credit treatment of taxpayers operating abroad through foreign branches and disregarded entities to the treatment already afforded to taxpayers operating through foreign corporations. The provision would apply to taxable years beginning after the date of enactment. This proposal is estimated to raise $253 million over 10 years. Limitation on the use of section 956 for foreign tax credit planning (i.e., the “hopscotch” rule). U.S.-based multinational companies typically have complex foreign structures designed to mitigate their worldwide tax expense. In many cases, these structures include companies located in low-tax jurisdictions (e.g., tax havens such as Bermuda and the Cayman Islands) in a multi-tier chain of subsidiaries. If a foreign subsidiary with a relative high tax expense distributes a dividend up through a chain of companies, the foreign tax credit on the dividend ultimately received by the U.S. shareholder is a blend of the tax rates of each foreign subsidiary in that chain. If there is a tax-haven company in that chain, the U.S. tax due on the dividend may be significantly higher than the tax would have been if the foreign subsidiary’s dividend could have simply “hopscotched” over the chain as a direct distribution to the U.S. shareholder. Affirmative use of section 956, which was originally enacted as an anti-abuse provision, readily accomplishes this “hopscotch” by deeming a dividend from a foreign subsidiary directly to the U.S. shareholder. By taking advantage of this “hopscotch” rule, the foreign tax credit on this “deemed dividend” can be greater than the foreign tax credit would be on an actual dividend. The bill would limit the amount of foreign tax credits that may be claimed with respect to a deemed dividend under section 956 to the amount that would have been allowed with respect to an actual dividend. The provision would apply to the affirmative use of section 956 after the date of introduction. This proposal is estimated to raise $1.010 billion over 10 years. Special rule with respect to certain redemptions by foreign subsidiaries. Where a foreign-based multinational company owns a U.S. company, and that U.S. company owns a foreign subsidiary, the earnings of the foreign subsidiary are generally subject to U.S. tax when they are distributed to the U.S. shareholder. When those earnings are then distributed by the U.S. company to its foreign shareholder, a thirty percent (30%) withholding tax applies, unless reduced by treaty or some other provision of the tax code. Foreign-based multinational companies have devised a technique for avoiding U.S. taxation of such foreign subsidiary earnings. This technique involves a provision of the tax code that was originally enacted as an anti-abuse rule that treats certain sales of stock between related parties as a dividend. For example, under this provision, where a foreign-based multinational corporation sells stock in the U.S. company to its foreign subsidiary, the cash received from the foreign subsidiary in this sale is treated as a dividend from that foreign subsidiary. This deemed dividend allows the foreign subsidiary’s earnings to completely – and permanently – bypass the U.S. tax system. The bill would eliminate this type of tax planning by preventing the foreign subsidiary’s earnings from being reduced and, as a result, the earnings would remain subject to U.S. tax (including withholding tax) when repatriated to the foreign parent corporation as a dividend. The provision would apply to acquisitions after the date of introduction. This proposal is estimated to raise $255 million over 10 years. Modification of affiliation rules for purposes of rules allocating interest expense. To prevent double taxation (i.e., full taxation by both a foreign country and by the United States on the same item of income), taxpayers are permitted to claim foreign tax credits with respect to foreign taxes paid on income earned offshore. To appropriately limit use of the foreign tax credit system to avoidance of double taxation, foreign tax credits are limited to the maximum amount of U.S. tax that could be imposed on the taxpayer’s foreign source income (i.e., thirty-five percent (35%) of the taxpayer’s foreign source income). Taxpayers have used various techniques to minimize the amount of foreign source interest expense, which has the effect of artificially boosting foreign source income. In turn, this permits taxpayers to utilize more foreign tax credits than would otherwise be possible, and the use of such additional foreign tax credits has nothing to do with relieving double taxation. To prevent taxpayers from avoiding these rules, Treasury regulations prevent taxpayers from excluding foreign interest expense from the foreign tax credit limitation by placing it in foreign subsidiaries. The regulations achieve this result by including certain subsidiaries in the U.S. affiliated group. As a result, foreign source interest expense will be taken into account in the determination of the foreign tax credit limitation. The bill would modify the affiliation rules to strengthen these anti-abuse rules. The provision would apply to taxable years beginning after the date of enactment. This proposal is estimated to raise $405 million over 10 years. Repeal of 80/20 rules. Under current law, dividends and interest paid by a domestic corporation are generally considered U.S.-source income to the recipient and are generally subject to gross basis withholding if paid to a foreign person. If at least eighty percent (80%) of a corporation’s gross income during a three-year period is foreign source income and is attributable to the active conduct of a foreign trade or business (a so-called “80/20 company”), dividends and interest paid by the corporation will generally not be subject to the gross basis withholding rules. Furthermore, interest received from an 80/20 company can increase the foreign source inxome of, and therefore the amount of foreign tax credits that may be claimed by, a U.S. multinational company. Treasury has become aware that some companies have abused the 80/20 company rules. As a result, the President’s 2011 Budget proposes to repeal these rules. The bill would adopt the President’s Budget proposal to repeal the 80/20 company rules. The bill would also repeal the 80/20 rules for interest paid by resident alien individuals. The bill would include relief for existing 80/20 companies that meet specific requirements and are not abusing the 80/20 company rules. Subject to the relief for these existing 80/20 companies, the provision would apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010. This provision is estimated to raise $153 million over 10 years. Source rules on guarantees. Under current law, the treatment of guarantee fees under the source rules is unclear. If guarantee fees are sourced like services, they are sourced according to the location in which the services were performed. If the guarantee fees are sourced like interest, they are sourced by reference to the country of residence of the payor. A recent court case determined that guarantee fees should be sourced like services. Sourcing guarantee fees in a manner similar to services would permit U.S. subsidiaries of foreign corporations to engage in earning stripping transactions by making deductible payments to foreign affiliates (thereby reducing their U.S. income tax liability) without the imposition of U.S. withholding tax on the payment. The bill would provide that guarantees issued after the date of enactment will be sourced like interest and, as a result, if paid by U.S. taxpayers to foreign persons will generally be subject to withholding tax. No inference is intended with respect to the treatment of guarantees issued before the date of enactment. This proposal is estimated to raise $2.025 billion over 10 years. Technical correction to statute of limitations provision in the HIRE Act. The bill would make a technical correction to the foreign compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act that would clarify the circumstances under which the statute of limitations will be tolled for corporations that fail to provide certain information on cross-border transactions or foreign assets. Under the technical correction, the statute of limitations period will not be tolled if the failure to provide such information is shown to be due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. This proposal is estimated to not have any revenue effect over 10 years. VII. Closing Other Tax Loopholes a. Individual Loopholes Taxation of carried interest. The bill would prevent investment fund managers from paying taxes at capital gains rates on investment management services income received as carried interest in an investment fund. To the extent that carried interest reflects a return on invested capital, the bill would continue to tax carried interest at capital gain tax rates. However, to the extent that carried interest does not reflect a return on invested capital, the bill would require investment fund managers to treat seventy-five percent (75%) of the remaining carried interest as ordinary income (50% for taxable years beginning before January 1, 2013). The provision will be effective for taxable years ending on or after January 1, 2011. This proposal is estimated to raise $17.697 billion over 10 years. Ensuring collection of employment taxes earned by certain service professionals. Social Security taxes are imposed on compensation and self-employment income up to the Social Security Wage Base (currently $106,800) and the Medicare tax is imposed on all self-employment and compensation income. Some service professionals have been avoiding Medicare and Social Security taxes by routing their self-employment income through an S corporation. These taxpayers then pay themselves a nominal salary and take the position that the remaining earnings are exempt from employment taxes. The bill would address this abuse in situations where (1) an S corporation is engaged in a professional service business that is principally based on the reputation and skill of 3 or fewer individuals or (2) an S corporation that is a partner in a professional service business. The bill would also clarify that individuals that are engaged in professional service businesses are unable to avoid employment taxes by routing their earnings through a limited liability corporation or a limited partnership. This proposal is estimated to raise $11.249 billion over 10 years. b. Corporate Loopholes Clarification of gain recognized in certain spin-off transactions (e.g., “Reverse Morris Trust” transactions). Under current law, taxes are generally imposed on parent corporations where they extract value in excess of basis from their subsidiaries prior to engaging in a tax-free spin-off transaction. Therefore, if a subsidiary corporation distributes cash or other property to its parent in excess of the parent’s basis in the subsidiary or if a subsidiary corporation assumes parent debt in excess of the parent’s basis in the subsidiary, the parent corporation will recognize gain. However, taxes are not assessed if a subsidiary corporation distributes its own debt securities to a parent corporation prior to a spin off transaction even where the value of these securities would exceed the parent corporation’s basis in its subsidiary. The bill would treat distributions of debt securities in a tax-free spin-off transaction in the same manner as distributions of cash or other property. Subject to a transition rule, the provision would apply to exchanges after the date of enactment. This provision is estimated to raise $255 million over 10 years. Taxation of dividends received in certain business reorganizations (e.g., the “boot-within-gain” limitation). Under current law, if a shareholder receives property other than stock (called “boot” by tax practitioners) in connection with certain business reorganizations then the amount of the dividend that the shareholder is required to recognize as income is limited to the amount of gain realized in the exchange (commonly referred to as the “boot within gain” limitation). This is so even if the property received would otherwise be considered to be a dividend for tax purposes. The President’s FY 2011 Budget states that “there is not a significant policy reason to vary the treatment of a distribution that otherwise qualified as a dividend by reference to whether it is received in the normal course of a corporation’s operations or is instead received as part of a reorganization exchange.” In addition, the Administration has identified specific abuses of this rule in cross-border reorganizations. They state, “in cross-border reorganizations, the boot-within-gain limitation can permit U.S. shareholders to repatriate previously-untaxed earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries with minimal U.S. tax consequences.” The bill would repeal the boot-within-gain limitation in the case of any reorganization transaction (that is, it would apply to both domestic and cross-border transactions) if the exchange has the effect of the distribution of a dividend. The bill would also ensure that an appropriate amount of earnings is taken into account in determining the amount of the dividend. Subject to a transition rule, the provision would apply to exchanges after the date of enactment. This provision is estimated to raise $510 million over 10 years. VIII. Maintaining Access to Affordable Health Care a. SGR Medicare physician payment rates. Medicare physician payment rates are scheduled to be reduced by more than twenty percent (20%) in June. This provision would provide a 2.2 percent update to physician payment rates for the rest of this year and an additional 1 percent update for 2011. After 2011 rates would return to the current law levels. This provision is estimated to cost $22.9 billion over ten years. A separate vote will be held on this provision of H.R. 4213. b. Other Health Provisions Addition of inpatient drug discount program to 340B drug discount program. Under current law, drug manufacturers are required to provide certain hospitals and other entities that treat low-income and uninsured patients (including certain public hospitals, critical access hospitals, children’s hospitals, and cancer hospitals) with discounts so that the cost of outpatient drugs for these entities does not exceed the Medicaid price for the same drug. The bill would extend these discounts for certain 340B-eligible entities to inpatient drugs for use by patients who are uninsured or who do not have insurance that provides prescription drug coverage. This provision is estimated to cost $35 million over 10 years. Continued inclusion of orphan drugs in definition of covered outpatient drugs with respect to children’s hospitals under the 340B drug discount program. This provision would clarify that eligible children’s hospitals retain access to 340B drug discounts on orphan drugs. This provision has no cost. Extension of Section 508 reclassifications. Under current law, hospital geographic reclassifications authorized under section 508 of the Medicare Modernization Act expire on September 30, 2010. The bill would extend these reclassifications through FY 2011. The bill would also clarify that for certain reclassifications extended in previous legislation, the FY 2008 wage index values only applied for FYs 2008 and 2009. The bill would also create a transparent process whereby hospitals can view proposed wage index values that reflect the extension of Section 508 reclassifications for FY 2011 and notify CMS if they choose to discontinue their reclassification status. This provision is estimated to cost $300 million over 10 years. Repeal of delay of RUG-IV. Under current law, implementation of Version 4 of the Resource Utilization Groups (“RUG IV”) for purposes of reimbursing skilled nursing facilities under Medicare is delayed until October 1, 2011. The bill would repeal the delay and allow RUG IV to go into effect on October 1, 2010, consistent with the final SNF payment regulation for FY11. This provision has no cost. Funding for claims reprocessing. Extensions of Medicare payment policies for calendar year 2010 were enacted into law on March 23, 2010, requiring the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to reprocess Medicare claims back to January 1, 2010. The bill would provide funding for CMS to reprocess these claims. This provision costs $175 million over 10 years. Conforming amendment related to waiver of coinsurance for preventive services. The bill would clarify that waivers of cost sharing and deductibles for Medicare preventive services apply when those services are furnished at Federally Qualified Health Centers and Rural Health Clinics, as applicable. This provision has no cost. Establish a CMS-IRS data match to identify fraudulent providers. Under current law, CMS and IRS are not authorized to exchange information for the purposes of fighting Medicare fraud and screening potential new providers. This provision helps identify potentially fraudulent providers sooner by authorizing CMS to collaborate with the IRS to determine whether providers applying to enroll or re-enroll in Medicare have failed to file Federal tax returns or have delinquent tax debts. The data match would target certain high-risk provider types in high-vulnerability areas. This provision is estimated to save $400 million over 10 years. Clarification of effective date of Part B special enrollment period for disabled TRICARE beneficiaries. Under current law, disabled Medicare beneficiaries who are also eligible for TRICARE are eligible for a 12-month special enrollment period (SEP) for Medicare Part B in order to ensure that they properly enroll in Medicare Part B and retain their TRICARE eligibility. This provision would clarify the effective date of this SEP to ensure that beneficiaries can use it. This provision is estimated to cost $3 million over 10 years. Limitation on reasonable costs payments for certain clinical diagnostic laboratory tests furnished to hospital patients in certain rural areas. Under current law, cost-based payments for lab services at certain small hospitals are reinstated for one-year for cost reporting periods beginning after July 1, 2010. This policy previously expired on June 30, 2008 and has not been in effect for close to two years. The bill would repeal the reinstatement of this provision. This provision has no cost. Adjustment to Medicare payment localities. Under current law, the boundaries of payment localities in the state of California are determined using data that is almost 20 years old. This provision would update the method used to determine the localities used for Medicare’s physician geographic adjustment factor in California, utilizing an approach that is based on metropolitan statistical areas. This provision is estimated to cost $400 million over ten years. Medicaid and CHIP technical corrections. The bill would make technical corrections to Medicaid and CHIP relating to exclusion from participation, income eligibility levels for children, measurement of payment error rates, coverage of children of state employees, and payment for electronic health records. These provisions have no cost. Clarification of 3-day payment window. Under current law, all services related to an inpatient admission are included in the bundled payment for that admission. The bill would conform the law with recent practice by preventing future unbundling of services and submission of adjustment claims seeking separate and additional Medicare payments. This provision would prevent $4.2 billion in excess spending by preventing providers from changing current practice. IX. Other Provisions Extension of State Court Improvement Programs. The bill would extend for one year programs that now provide funds to help courts improve the processing of foster care and adoption cases. This provision is estimated to cost $20 million over 10 years. Cobell and Pigford settlements. The bill also contains $4.6 billion to pay for settlement of both the Cobell and Pigford class action lawsuits. The Cobell settlement concerns the government’s management and accounting for over 300,000 American Indians’ trust accounts, and the Pigford settlement ends a decades old discrimination lawsuit brought by black farmers against USDA. This provision is estimated to cost $4.6 billion over 10 years. Reinstate geothermal receipts formula. The bill would reinstate provisions that, for fiscal year 2010, would deposit all funds received from sales, bonuses, royalties, and rentals under the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 in the Treasury, of which (1) 50 percent shall be used by the Secretary of the Treasury to make payments to States within the boundaries of which the leased land and geothermal resources are located; (2) 25 percent shall be used by the Secretary of the Treasury to make payments to the counties within the boundaries of which the leased land or geothermal resources are located; and (3) 25 percent shall be deposited in miscellaneous receipts. This provision is estimated to cost $8 million over 10 years. Allows Secretary of the Interior to grant economy-related contract extensions to timber companies. Currently, the U.S. Forest Service has several options for helping timber companies adjust economically unviable timber contracts, but the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) does not have the same authorities. As a result, there are many timber companies which negotiated contracts three years ago with the BLM but can no longer afford to remove the timber based on the current contract terms. The bill would allow the Secretary of the Interior to add three years to the current contract expiration date. This would give companies the opportunity to wait for a better economic climate in which to remove timber from BLM lands, rather than mutually agreeing with the BLM to cancel their current contracts. This provision is estimated to have no cost. Reporting requirements for funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.The bill requires any agency funding a program provided for in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009 at a level of $2 billion and above make available on their website a description of the goals for the program, information on how the funding will be distributed, milestones for major phases of activities under the covered program, and performance measures being used by the agency. The bill also requires agencies to publish quarterly reports on ARRA programs, including information on progress towards goals, details on unobligated and unexpired balances, and whether the program has met milestones and performance standards. Civil penalties are authorized for recipients of recovery funds who do not report to the appropriate agency information on the use of such funds. This proposal is estimated to have no cost. Commerce Department study on job losses. The bill requires the Commerce Department to submit a report to Congress on job losses in New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest states over the past 20 years. The Commerce Department would study what role the off-shoring of manufacturing has played in job losses, and would be required to submit recommendations on how to attract industries and jobs to the regions. This proposal is estimated to have no cost. (####)
05.28.2010	As we take the time this Memorial Day to remember the sacrifice and courage of the men and women who have fought for our country, I wanted to take a moment to share with you the recent efforts Congress has made to ensure that those who serve receive the benefits and compensation they deserve. We must do our very best to ensure that those who serve or have served have the support and tools they need to succeed when they return home. If you or anyone you know are ever experiencing trouble in securing your military or veterans benefits do not hesitate to contact my office at (586) 498-7122. Funding for Veterans’ Health Care Congress has increased investment in veterans’ health care and service by 60 percent since January 2007 – including the largest single increase in the 78-year history of the VA. The new funding has led to 2,000 new doctors and 6,500 new nurses and the re-opening of the VA doors to veterans without service-connected disabilities who had previously been prohibited from enrolling. The funding has meant a 28 percent increase in medical research and an increased focus on Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and traumatic brain injury. An advanced appropriation of $48 billion was signed into law last year for veterans’ medical care for 2011. Later this year, Congress will consider health funding for 2012 in order to ensure the continuation of timely, predictable funding. Supporting Veteran Caregivers Family members and other caregivers have quit jobs, delayed schooling, and made other difficult sacrifices to provide care for injured veterans. This year legislation passed to provide help to caregivers, including training, counseling, and respite care, and to eliminate copayments for catastrophically disabled veterans. The President signed the legislation into law on May 5, 2010. Supporting our Female Veterans There are 45,300 women veterans in Michigan. Indeed, women are one of the fastest growing segments of our nation’s veteran population. Congress passed legislation to expand and improve health care services for women veterans, including providing up to seven days of care of newborn children and enhancing treatment for sexual trauma and PTSD. The President signed the legislation into law on May 5, 2010. Homeownership and Housing Opportunities In 2008, Congress prohibited home foreclosures for nine months after military service, increased the VA home loan limit, and enabled more veterans to refinance their existing high-risk loans through VA home loans. This year the House built on this law by extending protections against foreclosure to veteran homeowners. The House passed the Helping Heroes Keep Their Homes Act on March 23, 2010. In addition, the House took action on behalf of those veterans without homes. The End Veteran Homelessness Act will strengthen successful, comprehensive programs for homeless veterans with special attention to the needs of homeless women veterans and homeless veterans with children. The House also passed this bill on March 23, 2010. Employment and Education Opportunities for Veterans Many veterans have taken advantage of the new Post 9/11 GI Bill which provides stipends for as much as the most expensive in-state public school and also provides transferability of unused education benefits to spouses and children. This program began last August. In addition, the Recovery Act, signed into law last year, provides businesses a $2,400 tax credit for hiring unemployed veterans. Recognizing that more must be done to provide employment opportunities for veterans, the House passed the Energy Jobs for Veterans Act that will reimburse employers for veterans’ on-the-job training in the energy sector. The House passed this bill on March 23, 2010. Supporting Disabled Veterans The Recovery Act included a $250 payment to disabled veterans to help makes ends meet during the economic downturn. In addition, I introduced legislation this month with Senator Baucus to begin ending the unjust policy that penalizes medically retired servicemembers by taking away one dollar of their pension for every dollar of their disability pay. The House is expected to consider this legislation shortly. Be assured I will continue to fight for the interests of our military and veterans. (####)
05.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin commented today on a study released by Families USA showing that approximately 2,056,000 Michigan residents have a pre-existing health condition that, absent reform, could lead to a denial of insurance by a health insurance company or higher premiums. “Ending discrimination based on pre-existing conditions was a vital element of health care reform and this report demonstrates how important reform is to Michiganders,” said Rep. Levin. “The idea that someone could be refused health care because they are diabetic or have high-blood pressure is simply unconscionable.” The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act prohibits discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, starting with children this year, and expanding to all in 2014. In the interim, a federally subsidized high-risk pool will provide an affordable option for Michigan residents without insurance who have been uninsured for six months or more. The Families USA report found that nearly 25% of the population under age 65 in Michigan has a pre-existing condition. This includes individuals in every age group with concentrations rising from 7.5% of those under 18 (totaling 180,900 children) to 48% of those aged 55 to 64. Nationally, nearly one in five Americans has a pre-existing condition. To read the Families USA report click here: https://www.familiesusa.org/assets/pdfs/health-reform/pre-existing-conditions/michigan.pdf To read more about the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act click here: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/press/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=10416 (####)
05.24.2010	Last week Congressman Levin and Senator Max Baucus introduced the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act which includes several provisions that are important to the State of Michigan, Michigan businesses and Michigan families. There are many provisions not listed here that also assist Michiganders but are more general in nature. For example, the fact that the Jobs bill will prevent a 21% cut in payments to Medicare physicians is important to Michigan seniors. The Ways and Means Committee website has full and up-to-date information on all the provisions in the Jobs bill here.Here are the provisions with particular Michigan relevance divided into Job Supporting Provisions, Business Tax Relief, and Support for Unemployed Workers Seeking New Job Opportunities. Job Supporting Provisions Small Business Administration. The bill would extend the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act small business lending program that eliminates the fees normally charged for loans through the SBA 7(a) and 504 loan programs and increases the government guarantees on 7(a) loans from 75% to 90%. Since its creation, the program has supported over $26 billion in small business lending, which has helped to create or retain over 650,000 jobs. MICHIGAN: From March 1, 2009 through April 30, 2010, SBA guaranteed 1,884 Recovery Act-backed loans in Michigan (7a, 504, and ARC) for a total of $536,123,900 in lending. Modifications to the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2010. Corrects a formula in a previous highway funding bill to more fairly distribute the funding. MICHIGAN: Redistributes $20.6 million to Michigan bringing the state’s total for the Surface Transportation Extension Act to $1.65 billion. Build America Bonds. The bill will extend the popular Build America Bonds program, which has allowed State and local governments to invest more than $97 billion in infrastructure projects nationwide and has supported more than 1.7 million jobs nationwide. MICHIGAN: 46 issues of BABs as of April 30, 2010 totaling $1.833 billion. Complete list available here. Recovery Zone Bonds. The bill will extend the Recovery Zone Bond program, which will help local municipalities raise more than $25 billion of capital for infrastructure and economic development projects and will support more than 450,000 jobs nationwide. The bill would also ensure that each municipality receives an allocation of these bonds equal to at least its share of national unemployment in December 2009. MICHIGAN: the Recovery Act provided Michigan with $1,932,625,000 in Recovery Zone bonding authority Extension of tax-exempt eligibility for loans guaranteed by Federal Home Loan Banks. Provision allows bonds that are guaranteed by Federal home loan banks to be eligible for treatment as tax-exempt bonds regardless of whether the bonds are used to finance housing programs. Allowing these bonds to be guaranteed by Federal home loan banks has helped State and local governments obtain financing for necessary projects. The bill would extend this benefit for bonds issued through 2011. MICHIGAN: $117,970,426 in bonds issued Low-income housing credit exchange program. The bill extends the low-income housing tax credit exchange program, which has allowed States to encourage the development of over 49,000 low-income housing units nationwide and has supported more than 40,000 jobs nationwide. MICHIGAN: $285,935,302 awarded in support of 48 projects assisting 4,496 units Summer jobs. The bill would support over 300,000 jobs for youth ages 16 to 21 through summer employment programs. This age group has some of the highest unemployment levels – 25% unemployment for those aged 16 to 19. This funding will allow local Workforce Investment Boards to expand successful summer jobs programs. MICHIGAN: the Recovery Act gave MI $74 million (out of $1.2 billion available) for 21,000 jobs. $1 billion total is available in the Jobs bill. Business Tax Relief R&D tax credit. The bill will provide $6.6 billion of tax credits to support companies that make research and development expenses. Extending this tax credit will create or save more than 117,000 jobs nationwide. MICHIGAN: Manufacturers do 70% of private sector R&D Refundable AMT credits for corporations making domestic investments. The bill would allow corporations to receive a refund of a portion of their AMT credits if they invest during 2010 in capital equipment for use in the United States. This provision is projected to lead to $24 billion in business investment nationally. Supporters: • U.S. Chamber of Commerce • National Association of Manufacturers (NAM)• The Association For Manufacturing Technology (AMT)• Association of Equipment Manufacturers (AEM)• Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) Some of the many U.S. employers that support the proposal include American Airlines, Applied Micro Devices, Arch Coal, Associated Builders and Contractors Association, Bosch, Cliffs Natural Resources, CMS Energy, Consul Energy, Delta Airlines, Daimler, General Motors, Goodyear, Micron, National Mining Association, Owens Illinois, Peabody Energy, Qwest, T-Mobile, and Xerox. Extension of the alternative motor vehicle credit for heavy hybrids. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the alternative motor vehicle credit for heavy duty hybrid trucks. Energy-efficient windows. In order to claim the section 25C tax credit for energy-efficient windows, taxpayers must purchase windows that meet certain specifications. Many have raised concerns that the current specifications fail to account for different climate regions in the United States. Recently, the EPA updated the Energy Star requirements to take these climate regions into account. The bill would link eligibility for the tax credit to the Energy Star requirements. Direct payment in lieu of energy-efficient appliance tax credit. The bill would allow manufacturers of energy-efficient appliances to elect to receive a direct payment in lieu of the section 45M energy-efficient appliance tax credit. The direct payment would be equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the tax credit that would otherwise have been allowed under section 45M. MICHIGAN: According to the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers the appliance tax credit affects 40,000 jobs in the United States, which accounts for at least 17,000 direct manufacturing jobs and 23,000 jobs that support the manufacturing of the affected products. US companies that benefits include Electrolux, GE, Bosch, Sub Zero, Viking, Whirlpool New Markets Tax Credit. The New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) program uses federal tax credits leverage significant private investment in businesses in low-income communities. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the new markets tax credit, permitting a maximum annual amount of qualified equity investments of $5 billion. In order to ensure that the NMTC encourages AMT taxpayers to make qualifying investments, the bill would also allow NMTC to be claimed against the AMT with respect to qualified investments made between March 15, 2010 and January 1, 2012. MICHIGAN: $280,000,000 in credits to Michigan-based development entities Support for Unemployed Workers Seeking New Job Opportunities Extension of Emergency Unemployment Compensation, federally-funded Extended Benefits program, and $25 in additional compensation. MICHIGAN: Currently there are 540,000 workers receiving unemployment compensation in Michigan. If we were to allow the emergency program to expire, which is set to happen on June 2nd, the number of weeks of benefits available to these individuals would drop dramatically. In Michigan, the weekly number of workers who would drop off their benefits would reach 34,000 by the first week of July. Nationwide, 1.2 million workers would lose benefits by July. Extension of TANF jobs and emergency fund. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act created an Emergency Contingency Fund (ECF) within the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program to help States with increasing expenditures on: basic assistance for families in the TANF program; short-term, one-time aid for needy families; and subsidized employment programs. MICHIGAN: Michigan used these funds to support subsidized jobs programs and the State Earned Income Tax Credit, with $200 million in funding available to the state. A one-year extension of the program will quality Michigan for an additional $100 million in assistance for low-income Michigan families. Trade Adjustment Assistance for Community Colleges - Career Training Grant Program. This competitive grant program was created under Recovery Act and received $2 billion for 4 years in the Health Care Reform law. In the Jobs bill, we are making an important change by allowing community colleges to use funding for programs designed to assist individuals eligible for unemployment insurance in addition to TAA-eligible workers.
05.20.2010	Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus (D]MT) will today release legislative text of the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act, legislation to provide critical tax cuts and support for American workers through the end of this year. Provisions included in the legislation would: Provide tax relief to businesses and State and local governments to help them invest and create jobs; Provide important tax cuts to put money back in the pockets of working families; Help restore the flow of credit to enable small businesses to expand and hire new workers by extending small business loan programs; Expand career training programs for Americans who are looking for work; Extend eligibility for unemployment insurance benefits, COBRA health care tax credits and other critical programs that families and communities depend on through December 31, 2010; Ensure that seniors, military service members and Americans with disabilities continue to have access to doctors they know and trust; and Close tax loopholes for wealthy investment fund managers and foreign operations of multi-national companies. “Provisions in this legislation will help companies and State and local governments spur job growth while also providing critical tax relief and economic assistance to American families who were hit hard by the recession,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI). “By promoting jobs here in the U.S. and cracking down on loopholes that encourage companies to move overseas, we strengthen opportunities for American workers and businesses so that we can continue building on recent economic growth toward a robust recovery. This legislation also contains a vital extension of unemployment and health benefits through the end of the year to help workers and their families make ends meet while they continue to seek out their next job opportunity.” “Our economy is just beginning to show signs of recovery, yet too many hard-working Americans lost their jobs in this recession and we can’t leave them behind,” Baucus said. “Our bill will provide the tax cuts American businesses need to grow and hire more workers, and it will ensure American families continue to have the support of unemployment insurance and other programs they depend on while we work to create jobs. This bill is the jump start our economy needs to help create new job opportunities for American workers and get our economy moving again.” The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act will be released today as the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 4213. The original legislation, the Tax Extenders Act of 2009, passed the House of Representatives on December 9, 2009. The Senate passed a similar package, the American Workers, State and Business Relief Act, as an amendment to that bill on March 10, 2010. Baucus and Levin worked with House and Senate leadership and their colleagues to merge these two packages into the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act they will release later today. A summary of the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act follows below. “The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010” H.R. 4213 May 20, 2010 Small Business Administration. The bill would extend the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act small business lending program that eliminates the fees normally charged for loans through the SBA 7(a) and 504 loan programs and increases the government guarantees on 7(a) loans from 75% to 90%. Since its creation, the program has supported over $26 billion in small business lending, which has helped to create or retain over 650,000 jobs. This provision is estimated to cost $505 million over 10 years. Build America Bonds (“BABs”). To date, the Build America Bonds program has been used by State and local governments to make $97 billion of infrastructure investments nationwide. The bill would extend this program for two years (through 2012). For direct-pay Build America Bonds issued in 2011, the amount of the direct payment would be reduced from 35% to 32% of the coupon interest. For such bonds issued in 2012, the amount of the direct payment would be reduced to 30% of the coupon interest. The bill would also allow issuers to issue Build America Bonds to effect a current refunding of outstanding Build America Bonds; as a result, issuers and the Federal government could save money if interest rates fall in the future. This provision is estimated to cost $4.042 billion over 10 years. Recovery Zone Bonds (“RZBs”). The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act authorized $10 billion in Recovery Zone economic development bonds and $15 billion in Recovery Zone facility bonds. These bonds could be issued during 2009 and 2010. Each state received a share of the national allocation based on that state’s job losses in 2008 as a percentage of national job losses in 2008, with each state receiving a minimum allocation of these bonds. These allocations were then sub-allocated to local municipalities. Municipalities receiving an allocation of these bonds would be permitted to use these bonds to invest in infrastructure, job training, education, and economic development in areas within the boundaries of the State, city or county (as the case may be) that has significant poverty, unemployment or home foreclosures. Because the formula that was used in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act looked to net job losses instead of unemployment, some areas of the country with significant numbers of unemployed individuals did not receive any allocation of Recovery Zone bonds. The bill would make an additional allocation of Recovery Zone bonds to ensure that each local municipality receives a minimum allocation equal to at least its share of national unemployment in December 2009. The bill would also extend the authorization for issuing Recovery Zone bonds through 2011. This provision is estimated to cost $2.385 billion over 10 years. Water and sewer exempt-facility bonds excluded from state volume caps. Under current law, State agencies are generally subject to a cap with respect to the volume of private activity bonds they may issue. Certain bonds are not subject to these state volume caps. For example, bonds to finance airports, docks and wharves are excluded from state volume caps. Furthermore, qualified veterans’ mortgage bonds and qualified 501(c)(3) bonds are also excluded from state volume caps. The bill would exclude bonds financing facilities that furnish water and sewage facilities from state volume caps. The bill would also exclude bonds financing facilities that furnish water and sewage facilities from certain limitations on tribal government issuances. This provision is estimated to cost $372 million over 10 years. Eliminate costs imposed on State and local governments by the alternative minimum tax. The alternative minimum tax (AMT) can increase the cost to State and local governments of issuing tax-exempt private activity bonds. In general, interest on tax-exempt private activity bonds is generally subject to the AMT. This limits the marketability of these bonds and, therefore, forces State and local governments to issue these bonds at higher interest rates. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act excluded private activity bonds from the AMT if the bond was issued in 2009 or 2010, and allowed AMT relief for current refunding of private activity bonds issued after 2003 and refunded during 2009 and 2010. The bill would extend both of these American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provisions for one year (i.e., exempt from AMT tax-exempt private activity bonds issued in 2011 and current refunding of private activity bonds issued after 2003 and refunded during 2011). This provision is estimated to cost $224 million over 10 years. Direct payment in-lieu-of low-income housing credit for 2010. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the program that was enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that allows state housing agencies to elect to receive a payment in lieu of a portion of the State’s allocation of low-income housing tax credits. This proposal is estimated to cost $11 million over 10 years. Extension of tax-exempt eligibility for loans guaranteed by Federal Home Loan Banks. State and local governments currently face significant costs when issuing tax-exempt municipal bonds to finance state and local projects. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 helped these municipalities by temporarily allowing bonds that are guaranteed by Federal home loan banks to be eligible for treatment as tax-exempt bonds regardless of whether the bonds are used to finance housing programs. Allowing these bonds to be guaranteed by Federal home loan banks has helped State and local governments obtain financing for necessary projects (e.g., constructing roads, repairing bridges, building and renovating schools and hospitals, funding college loans, etc) at a lower cost. The bill would extend this benefit for bonds issued through 2011. This proposal is estimated to cost $148 million over 10 years. Extension of temporary small issuer rules for allocation of tax-exempt interest expense. Under current law, financial institutions are not allowed to take a deduction for the portion of their interest expense that is allocable to such institution’s investments in tax-exempt municipal bonds. For purposes of this interest disallowance rule, bonds that are issued by a “qualified small issuers” are not taken into account as investments in tax-exempt municipal bonds. Under current law, a “qualified small issuer” is defined as any issuer that reasonably anticipates that the amount of its tax-exempt obligations (other than certain private activity bonds) will not exceed $10,000,000. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act increased this dollar threshold to $30,000,000 when determining whether a tax-exempt obligation issued in 2009 and 2010 qualifies for this small issuer exception. The small issuer exception would also apply to an issue if all of the ultimate borrowers in such issue would separately qualify for the exception. For these purposes, the issuer of a qualified 501(c)(3) bond shall be deemed to be the ultimate borrower on whose behalf a bond was issued. The bill would extend this benefit for bonds issued through 2011. This proposal is estimated to cost $254 million over 10 years. Extension of expensing of “brownfields” environmental remediation costs. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows for the expensing of costs associated with cleaning up hazardous “brownfield” sites. This proposal is estimated to cost $158 million over 10 years. Extension of exclusion of gain on the sale or exchange of certain “brownfield” sites from unrelated business taxable income. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that excludes any gain or loss from the qualified sale, exchange, or other disposition of any qualified brownfield property from unrelated business taxable income. This proposal is estimated to cost $54 million over 10 years. Modifications to the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2010. The bill would make two changes to Title IV, the “Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2010,” of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act. First, the bill would distribute the Projects of National and Regional Significance (PNRS) and National Corridor Infrastructure Improvement (National Corridor) program funding among all States based on each State’s share of FY 2009 highway apportioned funds rather than to only 29 States and Washington, D.C., that had PNRS and National Corridor projects under SAFETEA-LU. Second, the bill would distribute “additional” highway formula funds (which the bill makes available in lieu of additional Congressionally-designated projects) among all of the highway formula programs rather than among just six formula programs. These provisions are estimated to have no revenue effect over 10 years. General Business Relief R&D credit. The bill would reinstate for one year (through 2010) the research credit. This proposal is estimated to cost $6.650 billion over 10 years. Refundable AMT credits for corporations making domestic investments. Under current law, corporations are allowed to take a credit against their regular tax liability for previously paid alternative minimum taxes (AMT). However, in order to claim these tax credits, the corporation must be subject to the regular tax instead of the AMT. Many corporations are subject to the AMT for substantial periods of time. As a result, these corporations accumulate substantial AMT credits. The bill would allow corporations to receive a refund of a portion of their AMT credits if they invest during 2010 in capital equipment for use in the United States. This proposal is estimated to cost $2.337 billion over 10 years. Tax benefits for certain real estate developments. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the special 15-year cost recovery period for certain leasehold improvements, restaurant buildings and improvements, and retail improvements. This proposal is estimated to cost $4.851 billion over 10 years. Active financing exception. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the active financing exception from Subpart F of the tax code. This proposal is estimated to cost $3.923 billion over 10 years. Look-through treatment of payments between related controlled foreign corporations. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the current law look-through treatment of payments between related controlled foreign corporations. This proposal is estimated to cost $574 million over 10 years. Employer wage credit for activated military reservists. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that provides eligible small business employers with a credit against the taxpayer’s income tax liability for a taxable year in an amount equal to twenty percent (20%) of the sum of differential wage payments to activated military reservists. This proposal is estimated to cost $4 million over 10 years. Five-year depreciation for farming business machinery and equipment. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that provides a five-year recovery period for certain machinery and equipment which is used in a farming business. This proposal is revenue neutral over 10 years. Tax Relief for Businesses in Economically-Depressed Areas New Markets Tax Credit. Through the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) program, the federal government is able to leverage federal tax credits to encourage significant private investment in businesses in low-income communities. For each dollar of qualified private investment, the NMTC program provides investors with either 5 cents or 6 cents of federal tax credits (depending on the amount of time that has passed since the original investment was made). The value of these tax credits depends on a taxpayer’s ability to use these credits to offset tax liability. The NMTC program will not encourage investors to make investments in low-income communities if these investors are unable to use these credits to offset tax liability. Taxpayers that are subject to the alternative minimum tax (AMT) are unable to use NMTC to offset their AMT tax liability. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the new markets tax credit, permitting a maximum annual amount of qualified equity investments of $5 billion. In order to ensure that the NMTC encourages AMT taxpayers to make qualifying investments, the bill would also allow NMTC to be claimed against the AMT with respect to qualified investments made between March 15, 2010 and January 1, 2012. This provision is estimated to cost $445 million over 10 years. Empowerment Zones. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the designation of certain economically depressed census tracts as Empowerment Zones. Businesses and individual residents within Empowerment Zones are eligible for special tax incentives. This proposal is estimated to cost $304 million over 10 years. Renewal Communities. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the designation of certain economically depressed census tracts as Renewal Communities. Businesses and individual residents within Renewal Communities are eligible for special tax incentives. This proposal is estimated to cost $621 million over 10 years. District of Columbia Enterprise Zone. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the designation of certain economically depressed census tracts within the District of Columbia as the District of Columbia Enterprise Zone. Businesses and individual residents within this enterprise zone are eligible for special tax incentives. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the $5,000 first-time homebuyer credit for the District of Columbia. This proposal is estimated to cost $85 million over 10 years. Tax Relief for Tribal Businesses Indian employment credit. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the business tax credit for employers of qualified employees that work and live on or near an Indian reservation. The amount of the credit is 20 percent of the excess of wages and health insurance costs paid to qualified employees (up to $20,000 per employee) in the current year over the amount paid in 1993. This proposal is estimated to cost $49 million over 10 years. Accelerated depreciation for business property on an Indian reservation. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the placed-in-service date for the special depreciation recovery period for qualified Indian reservation property. In general, qualified Indian reservation property is property used predominantly in the active conduct of a trade or business within an Indian reservation, which is not used outside the reservation on a regular basis and was not acquired from a related person. This proposal is estimated to cost $123 million over 10 years. Tax Relief for Businesses in Territories and Possessions Deduction allowable with respect to income attributable to domestic production activities in Puerto Rico. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision extending the section 199 domestic production activities deduction to activities in Puerto Rico. This proposal is estimated to cost $185 million over 10 years. American Samoa economic development support. Existing possessions credit corporations with active business operations in American Samoa were allowed an economic development tax credit to offset their U.S. tax liability on income earned in American Samoa from active business operations. This credit was based on the corporation’s employment and capital investment in American Samoa. As a result of the economic downturn, those domestic corporations have been unable to utilize the economic development credit. The bill would provide a payment to the American Samoa Government for stimulating economic development in American Samoa in an amount equal to the cost of the economic development credit. This proposal is estimated to cost $18 million over 10 years. Single Employer Plan Funding Relief Extended period for single employer defined benefit plans to amortize certain shortfall amortization bases. Present law provides for a 7-year amortization period in the case of a funding shortfall. The provision would permit single employer defined benefit plan sponsors to elect an extended 9-year amortization period with interest only being paid in the first 2 years. Alternatively, the plan sponsor may elect a 15-year amortization period. Under the provision, the plan’s funding obligation for a plan year is increased if the sponsoring employer makes excessive employee or shareholder payments. The provision generally allows plan sponsors to elect relief for up to two plan years during the four-plan-year period from 2008 to 2011. Application of extended amortization period to plans subject to prior law funding rules. The provision provides for funding relief for plans that are subject to the prior law funding rules (i.e., plans not yet subject to the requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA)). Under the provision, a plan sponsor may elect to calculate its minimum required contribution without regard to the deficit reduction contribution rules for up to 2 plan years. The provision provides for an alternative election under which a plan may instead amortize funding liability under a 15-year payment schedule for one plan year. The provision generally allows plan sponsors to elect relief for plan years beginning during the three-plan-year period from 2009 to 2011. The provision also amends the PPA by allowing certain charity plans to elect to be temporarily covered by prior law funding rules. Suspension of certain funding level limitations. Present law provides that benefit accruals under a pension plan must cease, and certain prohibited payments may not be made, if the plan’s funded percentage falls below 60 percent. The Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (WRERA), permitted a plan to use its pre-financial crisis funded percentage in applying the accrual restriction rule for the first plan year beginning after September 30, 2008. The provision extends the WRERA relief for plan years beginning through 2011, allowing single employer defined benefit plans to use their funded percentage for the last plan year beginning before September 30, 2009. The provision also permits the payment of benefits in the form of a social security leveling payment, which would otherwise be a prohibited payment for an underfunded plan, for 2010 and 2011. In the case of plant shutdown benefits, present law also requires employers to waive any credit balances that arise from pre-funding in order to avoid funding based restrictions on the payment of the shutdown benefits. The provision temporarily permits employers to make a contribution to the plan in the amount of the shutdown benefits in lieu of waiving credit balances. Temporary allowance of election to apply balances against minimum required contribution. Under present law, an employer may maintain a credit balance of contributions that it makes in excess of required minimum contributions, and such credits generally may be used in lieu of later year required minimum contributions unless the plan is less than 80 percent funded. The provision allows an employer to use its credit balances for the period of 2009 to 2011 if the plan was at least 80 percent funded prior to the financial crisis. Information reporting. Under present law, sponsors of pension plans are required to report additional information relating to the sponsor and the plan’s finances to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) if the plan’s funded percentage is below 80 percent. The provision modifies the reporting requirement by requiring additional reporting if aggregate unfunded vested benefits of plans maintained by the sponsor exceed $75 million. Rollover of amounts received in airline carrier bankruptcy. The provision permits qualified airline employees to rollover bankruptcy settlement amounts to a traditional IRA (present law permits rollover of such settlements to a Roth IRA), and to recharacterize a prior contribution of a settlement amount to a Roth IRA as a contribution to a traditional IRA. Multiemployer Plan Funding Relief Optional use of 30-year amortization periods. Under present law, multiemployer pension plans must amortize net experience losses over a 15-year period. The provision would permit plans to elect a 30-year amortization period for certain losses incurred in either or both of the first 2 plan years ending on or after June 30, 2008. The 30-year amortization extension is not available unless the plan is projected not to have a decrease in its funded percentage in 15 years. If a plan elects the extended amortization periods, benefit increases are restricted for a two-year period, unless the plan actuary certifies that increases are fully paid for by additional contributions by the plan sponsor and certain funding levels are projected to be met. The provision also extends the maximum smoothing period for determining plan asset values from 5 years to 10 years for the either or both of the first 2 plan years ending on or after June 30, 2008. Optional longer recovery periods for multiemployer plans in endangered or critical status. Under present law, certain underfunded multiemployer pension plans must improve their funding levels over a 10-year funding improvement period (15 years in the case of a seriously endangered plan) or a 10-year rehabilitation period. WRERA permitted a 3-year extension of these periods. The provision extends the WRERA relief so as to permit up to a 5-year extension of these periods (up to an additional 2 years for plans that elected WRERA relief). Modification of certain amortization extensions under prior law. Prior to the PPA, amortization waivers were granted by the Internal Revenue Service to multiemployer pension plans, subject to the condition that the plans demonstrate funding improvement over a specified period. Under the provision, for purposes of determining whether these funding-based conditions have been met, plans with such extensions may treat the return on plan assets for plan years that contain any of the period from June 30, 2008 to October 31, 2008 as the interest rate used for charges and credits to the plan’s funding standard account. Alternative default schedule for plans in endangered or critical status. Under the PPA, a default contribution schedule applies in the case of certain underfunded plans if the collective bargaining parties fail to reach agreement on a contribution schedule. Under the provision, the plan trustees may elect to use as the default schedule the contribution schedule that has been approved by the bargaining parties and that covers at least 75 percent of the employees actively participating in the plan. The provision is effective to designations of default schedules on or after the date of enactment. Pursuant to section 221 of the PPA, the provision does not apply to plan years beginning after December 31, 2014. Transition rule for certifications of plan status. This provision provides transition rules with respect to certifications of a plan’s funded status for plans whose certifications are due after the date of enactment and for certain plans whose most recent certification does not take into account an election to take funding relief with respect to a plan year that begins on or after October 1, 2009. The provisions listed under “Single Employer Plan Funding Relief” and “Multiemployer Plan Funding Relief” are estimated to raise $1.987 billion over 10 years Summer jobs. The bill would support over 300,000 jobs for youth ages 16 to 21 through summer employment programs. This age group has some of the highest unemployment levels – 25% unemployment for those aged 16 to 19. This funding will allow local Workforce Investment Boards to expand successful summer jobs programs that were funded in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. This provision is estimated to cost $1 billion over 10 years. Trade Adjustment Assistance for Communities – Community College and Career Training Grant Program. Under current law, this Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program provides grants to educational institutions to develop, offer and improve education and career training programs for workers eligible for TAA. In the 2010 Reconciliation, the program received $500 million a year in mandatory funding for FY2011, FY2012, FY2013 and FY2014. The provisions included in the bill would expand the program by authorizing such grants to also benefit individuals who are eligible for unemployment insurance, who are likely to be eligible for unemployment insurance or who have exhausted their unemployment insurance. Additionally, the provisions would: (1) clarify that only public and non-profit educational institutions are eligible for grants; (2) authorize the Department of Labor to spend up to five percent of program funds to administer, evaluate and establish reporting systems for the program; and (3) give the Department of Labor more flexibility by allowing it to obligate grant funds in the year that they are appropriated as well as the subsequent fiscal year. These changes do not score. Wool Trust Fund. In 2000, Congress enacted a grant and tariff relief program for the U.S. wool industry. The legislation created a “wool trust fund,” which provides payments to U.S. suit makers to compensate for the competitive damage to the U.S. suit industry caused by an inverted tariff. (Inverted tariffs occur when the duty on a finished product (e.g., a suit) is lower than the duty on the inputs (e.g., fabric) used to make the finished product.) The wool trust fund also makes payments to U.S. wool fabric and yarn producers, as well as sheep growers, to encourage more U.S. production of wool fabrics. The trust fund is funded through the revenue collected from tariffs on wool textile imports (primarily yarns and fabrics). The wool trust fund and tariff relief package was reauthorized in 2008. In 2008 and 2009, the revenue generated through wool fabric/yarn tariffs shrank considerably, resulting in much lower payments to U.S. wool suit producers and other recipients under the program. To address the immediate shortfall, the provision in the bill would use revenue generated from tariffs on other apparel products to fund the wool trust fund at the level authorized in 2004. This provision, which does not score, would ensure that thousands of textile and apparel workers remain employed. Cotton Trust Fund. In 2006, as part of the last miscellaneous tariff bill, Congress enacted a program for U.S. cotton shirt manufacturers to respond to a commercial disadvantage caused by an inverted tariff. The legislation created a “cotton trust fund,” which provides payments to U.S. shirt makers and U.S. cotton fabric and yarn producers, and created a pima cotton promotion program. The trust fund is funded through the revenue collected from tariffs on cotton textiles imports (primarily yarns and fabrics). The legislation also includes duty suspensions and reductions on high-end cotton fabrics and yarns, subject to quantitative limitations. The authority to transfer tariff revenue to the trust fund expired on October 1, 2008, and the duty suspensions expired on December 31, 2009. The provision included in the bill would reauthorize the program until December 31, 2013. The provision is estimated to cost $53 million over three years and would ensure that more than 800 textile and apparel workers remain employed. Deduction of State and local general sales taxes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the election to take an itemized deduction for State and local general sales taxes in lieu of the itemized deduction permitted for State and local income taxes. This proposal is estimated to cost $1.800 billion over 10 years. Additional standard deduction for real property taxes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the additional standard deduction for State and local real property taxes. This proposal is estimated to cost $1.551 billion over 10 years. Above-the-line deduction for qualified tuition and related expenses. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the above-the-line tax deduction for qualified education expenses. This proposal is estimated to cost $1.501 billion over 10 years. Above-the-line deduction for certain expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the $250 above-the-line tax deduction for teachers and other school professionals for expenses paid or incurred for books, supplies (other than non-athletic supplies for courses of instruction in health or physical education), computer equipment (including related software and service), other equipment, and supplementary materials used by the educator in the classroom. This proposal is estimated to cost $215 million over 10 years. Extension of Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program is scheduled to phase-out at the end of May 2010. This program provides (depending on a State’s unemployment rate) up to fifty-three (53) weeks of extended benefits. The bill would extend the EUC program through December 2010. Extension of Extended Benefits (EB) program. 100% Federal funding for the Extended Benefits (EB) program is scheduled to phase-out at the end of May 2010. This program provides up to an additional 13 to 20 weeks of benefits in certain States (i.e., 13 weeks for States at or above 6.5% unemployment and another 7 weeks for States at or above 8% unemployment). The bill would extend full funding for the EB program through December 2010. Extension of Federal Additional Compensation (FAC). Federal Additional Compensation, which increases unemployment benefits by $25 a week, is scheduled to phase-out at the end of May 2010. The bill would extend FAC through December 2010. Eliminating the penalty for part-time employment in the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program. The legislation coordinates EUC Benefits with regular Benefits by providing States with a number of options to allow EUC claimants to remain eligible for the EUC program when they become newly entitled to State unemployment compensation if switching to State benefits would reduce their weekly UI check by at least $100 or 25 percent. The four provisions immediately above are estimated to cost $47.130 billion over 10 years. Extension of TANF jobs and emergency fund. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act created an Emergency Contingency Fund (ECF) within the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program to help States with increasing expenditures on: basic assistance for families in the TANF program; short-term, one-time aid for needy families; and subsidized employment programs (such programs temporarily pay for all or part of the wages of a worker in a public or private job). This emergency fund is now scheduled to expire on September 30, 2010, which will lead some States to shut down ECF-funded subsidized employment programs even earlier. (These programs are scheduled to fund 185,000 jobs by the end of September.) The bill would provide $2.5 billion to extend this fund through FY 2011, as well as clarify certain program rules, such as eligibility for workers exhausting unemployment benefits. This provision is estimated to cost $2.65 billion over 10 years. Veterans concurrent receipt. The bill would allow for two years concurrent receipt of both DOD military retirement pay and VA military disability pay. No other federal employees are required to offset their federal retirement benefits if they also receive VA disability compensation. Disability is to compensate for the impact on quality of life, an issue that military retired pay does not address. This provision is estimated to cost $686 million over 10 years. National Housing Trust Fund. The bill would provide a one-time capitalization of the National Housing Trust Fund (NHTF), which will provide communities with funds to build, preserve, and rehabilitate rental homes that are affordable for very low income households. These homes will help address the serious shortage of affordable housing for lowest income families, including people who are unemployed or employed in the low wage work force, veterans, and elderly and disabled people on fixed incomes. It is estimated that an infusion of $1 billion in capital funds into the NHTF and $65 million for project-based vouchers to couple with NHTF capital grants will support the immediate production of 10,000 rental homes, creating 15,000 new construction jobs and 4,000 new jobs in ongoing operations. This provision is estimated to cost $1.065 billion over 10 years. Extension of poverty line hold harmless. Every year, HHS updates the federal poverty line according to changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI). The negative CPI for 2009 would have therefore had the effect of slightly lowering the official poverty guidelines in 2010. This in turn could reduce access for programs such as Medicaid and food stamps that use a percentage of the poverty line to determine eligibility. The legislation would continue the current short-term hold harmless provision through 2010 (which ensures the current poverty line can be no lower than the poverty line in 2009). This provision is estimated to cost $317 million over 10 years. Uniform tax disregard for federally-funded programs. The legislation would exclude federal tax refunds from income in the month received and from resources for FY2010 for the purpose of determining eligibility for federal or federally-assisted programs. This single standard would replace the various disregards that now apply to certain tax credits. This provision is estimated to cost $2 million over 10 years. Increase or eliminate Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund liability cap. Analysts estimate that the cost of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico could exceed $14 billion. To the extent that these costs are not borne by the parties responsible for the spill, up to $1 billion of these costs could be offset by funds in the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. In order to ensure that individuals, businesses and communities that suffer damages as a result of oil spills are not left uncompensated, the bill would increase or eliminate the $1 billion liability cap on the Oil Spill Liability Trust fund. The cost of this proposal is included in the estimate below. Increase Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund solvency. The Oil Spill Liability Trust fund is financed by an 8-cent-per-barrel tax on the oil industry. There is approximately $1.5 billion available in this trust fund. The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service has stated, “a major spill, particularly one in a sensitive environment, could threaten the viability of the fund.” To ensure the continued solvency of the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, the bill would increase the amount that oil companies are required to pay into the fund. This proposal is currently being estimated by the Joint Committee on Taxation. Extension of National Flood Insurance. Since its creation in the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) has been the primary source of reliable flood insurance coverage for millions of American homes and businesses. The NFIP is authorized to write and renew flood insurance coverage through May 31, 2010. The bill would extend the NFIP's authority to write and renew flood insurance coverage through December 31, 2010 and help provide needed stability in the nation's housing markets. This provision is estimated to have no cost. Mine rescue team training credit. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the credit for training mine rescue team members and would allow this credit to be claimed against the AMT. This proposal is estimated to cost $7 million over 10 years. Election to expense advanced mine safety equipment. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that provides businesses with fifty percent (50%) bonus depreciation for certain qualified underground mine safety equipment. This proposal is estimated to be revenue neutral over 10 years. Expanded and enhanced casualty loss deductions relating to federal disasters. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows taxpayers who have suffered loss as a result of a Federally-declared disaster to claim a deduction for casualty losses (i.e., both itemizers and non-itemizers) and would allow these taxpayers to calculate their casualty loss deduction without regard to their adjusted gross income. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the current law $500 per loss threshold. This proposal is estimated to cost $728 million over 10 years. Expensing of qualified disaster expenses. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows businesses that have been affected by a Federally-declared disaster to currently deduct demolition, repair, clean-up, and environmental remediation expenses (“Qualified Disaster Expenses”). This proposal is estimated to cost $31 million over 10 years. Five-year carry-back period for certain losses relating to federal disasters. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows businesses to carry back to the previous five years the following losses: (1) casualty losses that are attributable to a Federally-declared disaster; and (2) Qualified Disaster Expenses. This proposal is estimated to cost $120 million over 10 years. Relaxed mortgage revenue bond limitations for federal disasters. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows states to waive certain rules that limit their ability to use tax-exempt housing bonds to provide loans to taxpayers that wish to acquire residences in Federally-declared disaster areas. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows states to use their tax-exempt housing bonds to provide loans to repair or reconstruct homes and rental housing units that have been rendered unsafe for use as a residence by reason of a Federally-declared disaster or have been demolished or relocated by reason of government order on account of a Federally-declared disaster. Such loans are limited to the lower of (1) the actual cost of the repair or reconstruction or (2) $150,000. This proposal is estimated to cost $70 million over 10 years. Bonus depreciation for qualified disaster property. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that permits businesses that suffered damage as a result of a Federally-declared disaster to claim an additional first-year depreciation deduction equal to 50 percent of the cost of new real and personal property investments made in the Presidentially-declared disaster area. This proposal and the proposal immediately below are estimated to cost $1.457 billion over 10 years. Increased small business expensing for expenditures relating to federal disasters. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that increases by $100,000 (or the cost of qualified property, if less) the amount of expensing available for qualifying expenditures made in a Federally-declared disaster area. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that increases by $600,000 (or the cost of qualified property, if less) the level of investment at which the small business expensing benefits phase-out. The cost of this proposal is included in the description of the proposal immediately above. Agriculture Disaster Relief. The bill would provide assistance for 2009 agricultural losses for crops, including specialty crops, livestock, sugar, aquaculture, cottonseed, and poultry. In addition to approximately $1 billion in supplemental direct payments to producers with a minimum 5-percent loss in production, the bill would provide $42 million in cottonseed assistance, $25 million in aquaculture assistance, $21 million to a Hawaiian sugar cane cooperative, $75 million to poultry producers, and $150 million for specialty crop producers. The program is designed for payments to be issued quickly through USDA and State block grants. This provision is estimated to cost $1.479 billion over ten years. Extension of tax incentives for the New York Liberty Zone. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the special depreciation allowance for certain real property within the New York Liberty Zone and the time for issuing New York Liberty Zone bonds. This proposal is estimated to cost $152 million over 10 years. Extend Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) for Hurricane Katrina Employees. The bill would extend for one year (through August 28, 2010) the work opportunity tax credit for certain employers hiring in the Hurricane Katrina core disaster area. This proposal is estimated to cost $7 million over 10 years. Extension of increased rehabilitation credit for historic structures in the Gulf Opportunity Zone. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the increased rehabilitation credit for qualified expenditures in the Gulf Opportunity Zone. The Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 increased the rehabilitation credit from 10 percent to 13 percent of qualified expenditures for any qualified rehabilitated building other than a certified historic structure, and from 20 percent to 26 percent of qualified expenditures for any certified historic structure. This proposal is estimated to cost $43 million over 10 years. Two-year extension of Gulf Opportunity Zone low-income housing placed-in-service date. The Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 provided an additional allocation of low-income housing tax credits to the Gulf Opportunity Zone in an amount equal to the product of $18.00 multiplied by the portion of the State population which is in the Gulf Opportunity Zone. The additional allocations were made in calendar years 2006, 2007, and 2008, and required that the properties be placed in service before January 1, 2011. The bill would extend that placed-in-service date by two years (through 2012). This proposal is estimated to cost $357 million over 10 years. Extension of tax incentives for biodiesel and renewable diesel. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the $1.00 per gallon production tax credit for biodiesel and the small agri-biodiesel producer credit of 10 cents per gallon. The bill would also extend for one year (through 2010) the $1.00 per gallon production tax credit for diesel fuel created from biomass. This proposal is estimated to cost $868 million over 10 years. Credit for electricity produced at certain open-loop biomass facilities. The bill would extend the credit period under the production tax credit for electricity produced at open-loop biomass facilities that were placed in service prior to January 1, 2005 from five years to six years. In the sixth year, the credit provided to these facilities is reduced by twenty-percent (20%). This proposal is estimated to cost $84 million over 10 years. Extension of the alternative motor vehicle credit for heavy hybrids. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the alternative motor vehicle credit for heavy hybrids (i.e., hybrid motor vehicles that are not passenger automobiles or light trucks). This proposal is estimated to cost $8 million over 10 years. Extension of tax incentive for liquid fuels derived from biomass, biogas, natural gas and propane used as a fuel in transportation vehicles. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the $0.50 per gallon alternative fuel tax credit for liquid fuels derived from biomass, compressed or liquefied biogas, natural gas and propane. The bill would not extend this credit any liquid fuel derived from a pulp or paper manufacturing process (i.e., black liquor). This proposal is estimated to cost $96 million over 10 years. Extension of steel industry fuel tax credit. The bill would extend the placed-in-service date for the $2.83 per barrel-of-oil equivalent tax credit for steel industry fuel by one year (through 2010) and would allow facilities that qualify for the tax credit to receive this benefit for the first two years from the date that the facility is placed in service. This proposal is estimated to cost $44 million over 10 years. Extension of coke and coke gas production tax credit. The bill would extend the placed-in-service date for the $3.36 credit per barrel-of-oil equivalent of coke or coke gas by one year (through 2010). This proposal is estimated to cost $21 million over 10 years. Extension of energy-efficient new homes credit. The bill would extend the tax credit for manufacturers of energy-efficient residential homes for one year (through 2010). This proposal is estimated to cost $66 million over 10 years. Energy-efficient windows. In order to claim the section 25C tax credit for energy-efficient windows, taxpayers must purchase windows that meet certain specifications. Many have raised concerns that the current specifications fail to account for different climate regions in the United States. Recently, the EPA updated the Energy Star requirements to take these climate regions into account. The bill would link eligibility for the tax credit to the Energy Star requirements. This proposal is estimated to cost $145 million over 10 years. Direct payment in lieu of energy-efficient appliance tax credit. The bill would allow manufacturers of energy-efficient appliances to elect to receive a direct payment in lieu of the section 45M energy-efficient appliance tax credit. The direct payment would be equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the tax credit that would otherwise have been allowed under section 45M. This proposal is estimated to cost $69 million over 10 years. Extension of special rule for sales of electric transmission property. The bill would extend for one year (for sales prior to January 1, 2011) the present law deferral of gain on sales of transmission property by vertically integrated electric utilities to FERC-approved independent transmission companies. Rather than recognizing the full amount of gain in the year of sale, this provision would allow gain on such sales to be recognized ratably over an eight-year period. This proposal is revenue neutral over 10 years. Extension of special rule for percentage depletion for marginal wells. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the suspension on the taxable income limit for purposes of depleting a marginal oil or gas well. This proposal is estimated to cost $103 million over 10 years Extension of provision encouraging contributions of capital gain real property for conservation purposes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the increased contribution limits and carryforward period for contributions of appreciated real property (including partial interests in real property) for conservation purposes. This proposal is estimated to cost $190 million over 10 years. Extension of enhanced charitable deduction for contributions of food inventory. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision allowing businesses to claim an enhanced deduction for the contribution of food inventory. This proposal is estimated to cost $78 million over 10 years. Extension of enhanced charitable deduction for contributions of book inventories to public schools. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision allowing C corporations to claim an enhanced deduction for contributions of book inventory to public schools (kindergarten through grade 12). This proposal is estimated to cost $31 million over 10 years. Extension of enhanced charitable deduction for corporate contributions of computer equipment for educational purposes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that encourages businesses to contribute computer equipment and software to elementary, secondary, and post-secondary schools by allowing an enhanced deduction for such contributions. This proposal is estimated to cost $195 million over 10 years. Extension of tax-free distributions from individual retirement plans for charitable purposes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that permits tax-free distributions to charity from an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) of up to $100,000 per taxpayer, per taxable year. This proposal is estimated to cost $627 million over 10 years. Extension of special tax treatment of certain payments to controlling exempt organizations. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the special rules for interest, rents, royalties and annuities received by a tax exempt entity from a controlled entity. This proposal is estimated to cost $20 million over 10 years. Extension of special rule for S corporations making charitable contributions of property. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision allowing S corporation shareholders to take into account their pro rata share of charitable deductions even if such deductions would exceed such shareholder’s adjusted basis in the S corporation. This proposal is estimated to cost $39 million over 10 years. Extension of 7-year straight line cost recovery period for motorsports entertainment complexes. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the special 7-year cost recovery period for property used for land improvement and support facilities at motorsports entertainment complexes. This proposal is estimated to cost $38 million over 10 years. Extension of timber REIT provisions. In 2007, Congress provided special rules for real estate investment trusts (REITs) that earn timber income. These provisions allowed REITs that were engaged in a timber business to meet various REIT qualification rules. These special rules were effective only for the first taxable year of the REIT that began after May 22, 2008 and before May 22, 2009. The bill would extend these special rules for any taxable year beginning on or before December 31, 2010. This proposal is estimated to cost $7 million over 10 years. Extension of railroad track maintenance credit. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the railroad track maintenance credit. This proposal is estimated to cost $165 million over 10 years. Extension of special expensing rules for U.S. film and television productions. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision that allows film and television producers to expense the first $15 million of production costs incurred in the United States ($20 million if the costs are incurred in economically depressed areas in the United States). This proposal is estimated to cost $46 million over 10 years. Extension of special rules for regulated investment companies. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the tax treatment of interest-related dividends, short-term capital gain dividends, and other special rules applicable to foreign shareholders that invest in regulated investment companies. These proposals are estimated to cost $84 million over 10 years. Extension of temporary increase in limit on cover over of rum excise tax revenues to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. The bill would extend for one year (through 2010) the provision providing for payment of $13.25 per gallon to cover over a $13.50 per proof gallon excise tax on distilled spirits produced in or imported into the United States. This proposal is estimated to cost $131 million over 10 years. Study of extended tax expenditures. The bill would direct the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation to submit a report to the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Finance on each tax expenditure extended by this Act. This proposal has no revenue effect. Summary. The bill includes a package of provisions developed jointly by the Treasury Department, the Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee to curtail abuses of the U.S. foreign tax credit system and other targeted abuses. This system is intended to ensure that U.S.-based multinational companies are not subject to double taxation. However, taxpayers have taken advantage of the U.S. foreign tax credit system to reduce the U.S. tax due on completely unrelated foreign income in a manner that has nothing to do with eliminating double taxation. The bill would eliminate $14.451 billion of foreign tax credit loopholes. Rules to prevent splitting foreign tax credits from income. To prevent double taxation (i.e., full taxation by both a foreign country and by the United States on the same item of income), taxpayers are permitted to claim foreign tax credits with respect to foreign taxes paid on income earned offshore. Taxpayers have devised several techniques for splitting foreign taxes from the foreign income on which those taxes were paid. With these techniques, the foreign income remains offshore and untaxed by the United States, while the foreign taxes are currently available in the U.S. to offset U.S. tax that is due on other foreign source income. In many cases, the foreign income is permanently reinvested offshore such that it likely will never be repatriated and taxed in the U.S. This use of foreign tax credits has nothing to do with relieving double taxation. The President’s FY2011 Budget proposes to adopt a matching rule to prevent the separation of creditable foreign taxes from the associated foreign income. The bill would adopt the President’s Budget proposal by implementing a matching rule that would suspend the recognition of foreign tax credits until the related foreign income is taken into account for U.S. tax purposes. The bill targets abusive techniques and does not affect timing differences that result from normal tax accounting differences between foreign and U.S. tax rules. The provision would apply to all “split” foreign taxes claimed by taxpayers after the date of introduction. This proposal is estimated to raise $6.325 billion over 10 years. Denial of foreign tax credit with respect to foreign income not subject to United States taxation by reason of covered asset acquisitions. There are certain rules that permit taxpayers to treat a stock acquisition as an asset acquisition under U.S. tax law. Taxpayers can obtain similar results by acquiring interests in entities that are treated as corporations for foreign tax purposes, but as non-corporate entities (such as partnerships) for U.S. tax purposes. These transactions (“covered asset acquisitions”) result in a step-up in the basis of the assets of the acquired entity to the fair market value that was paid for the stock (or interest in the business entity). In the foreign context, this step-up usually exists only for U.S. tax purposes, and not for foreign tax purposes. As a result, depreciation for U.S. tax purposes exceeds depreciation for foreign tax purposes, such that the U.S. taxable base is lower than foreign taxable base. Because foreign taxes – and therefore foreign tax credits – are based on the foreign taxable base, there are more foreign tax credits than are necessary to avoid double tax on the U.S. tax base. Taxpayers are using these additional foreign tax credits to reduce taxes imposed on other, completely unrelated foreign income. The bill would prevent taxpayers from claiming the foreign tax credit with respect to foreign income that is never subject to U.S. taxation because of a covered asset acquisition. The provision would generally apply to related party transactions occurring after the date of introduction and unrelated party transactions occurring after the date of enactment. This proposal is estimated to raise $4.025 billion over 10 years. Separate application of foreign tax credit limitation to items resourced under tax treaties. To prevent double taxation (i.e., full taxation by both a foreign country and by the United States on the same item of income), taxpayers are permitted to claim foreign tax credits with respect to foreign taxes paid on income earned offshore. To appropriately limit use of the foreign tax credit system to avoidance of double taxation, foreign tax credits are limited to the maximum amount of U.S. tax that could be imposed on the taxpayer’s foreign source income (i.e., thirty-five percent (35%) of the taxpayer’s foreign source income). Taxpayers have devised a technique to use the U.S. treaty network to enhance foreign tax credit utilization – well beyond what is needed to avoid double taxation – by artificially inflating foreign source income. With this technique, ownership of income-producing assets that would ordinarily be held by U.S.-based multinational companies in the United States (e.g., investments in U.S. securities) is shifted to foreign branches and disregarded entities. This income is often lightly taxed on a net basis by the foreign country, but the treaty prevails in categorizing the entire gross amount of the income generated by the U.S. assets as foreign source. This artificially inflates the taxpayer’s foreign source income and allows the taxpayer to use foreign tax credits to reduce taxes on foreign source income beyond the maximum amount of U.S. tax that could be imposed on such income. This unintended tax planning technique has nothing to do with relieving double taxation. The bill respects the treaty commitment to treating such income as foreign source, but segregates the income so that it is not the basis for claiming foreign tax credits that have nothing to do with double taxation. In doing so, the bill conforms the foreign tax credit treatment of taxpayers operating abroad through foreign branches and disregarded entities to the treatment already afforded to taxpayers operating through foreign corporations. The provision would apply to taxable years beginning after the date of enactment. This proposal is estimated to raise $253 million over 10 years. Limitation on the use of section 956 for foreign tax credit planning (i.e., the “hopscotch” rule). U.S.-based multinational companies typically have complex foreign structures designed to mitigate their worldwide tax expense. In many cases, these structures include companies located in low-tax jurisdictions (e.g., tax havens such as Bermuda and the Cayman Islands) in a multi-tier chain of subsidiaries. If a foreign subsidiary with a relative high tax expense distributes a dividend up through a chain of companies, the foreign tax credit on the dividend ultimately received by the U.S. shareholder is a blend of the tax rates of each foreign subsidiary in that chain. If there is a tax-haven company in that chain, the U.S. tax due on the dividend may be significantly higher than the tax would have been if the foreign subsidiary’s dividend could have simply “hopscotched” over the chain as a direct distribution to the U.S. shareholder. Affirmative use of section 956, which was originally enacted as an anti-abuse provision, readily accomplishes this “hopscotch” by deeming a dividend from a foreign subsidiary directly to the U.S. shareholder. By taking advantage of this “hopscotch” rule, the foreign tax credit on this “deemed dividend” can be greater than the foreign tax credit would be on an actual dividend. The bill would limit the amount of foreign tax credits that may be claimed with respect to a deemed dividend under section 956 to the amount that would have been allowed with respect to an actual dividend. The provision would apply to the affirmative use of section 956 after the date of enactment. This proposal is estimated to raise $1.010 billion over 10 years. Special rule with respect to certain redemptions by foreign subsidiaries. Where a foreign-based multinational company owns a U.S. company, and that U.S. company owns a foreign subsidiary, the earnings of the foreign subsidiary are generally subject to U.S. tax when they are distributed to the U.S. shareholder. When those earnings are then distributed by the U.S. company to its foreign shareholder, a thirty percent (30%) withholding tax applies, unless reduced by treaty or some other provision of the tax code. Foreign-based multinational companies have devised a technique for avoiding U.S. taxation of such foreign subsidiary earnings. This technique involves a provision of the tax code that was originally enacted as an anti-abuse rule that treats certain sales of stock between related parties as a dividend. For example, under this provision, where a foreign-based multinational corporation sells stock in the U.S. company to its foreign subsidiary, the cash received from the foreign subsidiary in this sale is treated as a dividend from that foreign subsidiary. This deemed dividend allows the foreign subsidiary’s earnings to completely – and permanently – bypass the U.S. tax system. The bill would eliminate this type of tax planning by preventing the foreign subsidiary’s earnings from being reduced and, as a result, the earnings would remain subject to U.S. tax (including withholding tax) when repatriated to the foreign parent corporation as a dividend. The provision would apply to acquisitions after the date of introduction. This proposal is estimated to raise $255 million over 10 years. Modification of affiliation rules for purposes of rules allocating interest expense. To prevent double taxation (i.e., full taxation by both a foreign country and by the United States on the same item of income), taxpayers are permitted to claim foreign tax credits with respect to foreign taxes paid on income earned offshore. To appropriately limit use of the foreign tax credit system to avoidance of double taxation, foreign tax credits are limited to the maximum amount of U.S. tax that could be imposed on the taxpayer’s foreign source income (i.e., thirty-five percent (35%) of the taxpayer’s foreign source income). Taxpayers have used various techniques to minimize the amount of foreign source interest expense, which has the effect of artificially boosting foreign source income. In turn, this permits taxpayers to utilize more foreign tax credits than would otherwise be possible, and the use of such additional foreign tax credits has nothing to do with relieving double taxation. To prevent taxpayers from avoiding these rules, Treasury regulations prevent taxpayers from excluding foreign interest expense from the foreign tax credit limitation by placing it in foreign subsidiaries. The regulations achieve this result by including certain subsidiaries in the U.S. affiliated group. As a result, foreign source interest expense will be taken into account in the determination of the foreign tax credit limitation. The bill would modify the affiliation rules to strengthen these anti-abuse rules. The provision would apply to taxable years beginning after the date of enactment. This proposal is estimated to raise $405 million over 10 years. Repeal of 80/20 rules. Under current law, dividends and interest paid by a domestic corporation are generally considered U.S.-source income to the recipient and are generally subject to gross basis withholding if paid to a foreign person. If at least eighty percent (80%) of a corporation’s gross income during a three-year period is foreign source income and is attributable to the active conduct of a foreign trade or business (a so-called “80/20 company”), dividends and interest paid by the corporation will generally not be subject to the gross basis withholding rules. Furthermore, interest received from an 80/20 company can increase the foreign source inxome of, and therefore the amount of foreign tax credits that may be claimed by, a U.S. multinational company. Treasury has become aware that some companies have abused the 80/20 company rules. As a result, the President’s 2011 Budget proposes to repeal these rules. The bill would adopt the President’s Budget proposal to repeal the 80/20 company rules. The bill would also repeal the 80/20 rules for interest paid by resident alien individuals. The bill would include relief for existing 80/20 companies that meet specific requirements and are not abusing the 80/20 company rules. Subject to the relief for these existing 80/20 companies, the provision would apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010. This provision is estimated to raise $153 million over 10 years. Source rules on guarantees. Under current law, the treatment of guarantee fees under the source rules is unclear. If guarantee fees are sourced like services, they are sourced according to the location in which the services were performed. If the guarantee fees are sourced like interest, they are sourced by reference to the country of residence of the payor. A recent court case determined that guarantee fees should be sourced like services. Sourcing guarantee fees in a manner similar to services would permit U.S. subsidiaries of foreign corporations to engage in earning stripping transactions by making deductible payments to foreign affiliates (thereby reducing their U.S. income tax liability) without the imposition of U.S. withholding tax on the payment. The bill would provide that guarantees issued after the date of enactment will be sourced like interest and, as a result, if paid by U.S. taxpayers to foreign persons will generally be subject to withholding tax. No inference is intended with respect to the treatment of guarantees issued before the date of enactment. This proposal is estimated to raise $2.025 billion over 10 years. Technical correction to statute of limitations provision in the HIRE Act. The bill would make a technical correction to the foreign compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act that would clarify the circumstances under which the statute of limitations will be tolled for corporations that fail to provide certain information on cross-border transactions or foreign assets. Under the technical correction, the statute of limitations period will not be tolled if the failure to provide such information is shown to be due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. This proposal is estimated to not have any revenue effect over 10 years. Taxation of carried interest. The bill would prevent investment fund managers from paying taxes at capital gains rates on investment management services income received as carried interest in an investment fund. To the extent that carried interest reflects a return on invested capital, the bill would continue to tax carried interest at capital gain tax rates. However, to the extent that carried interest does not reflect a return on invested capital, the bill would require investment fund managers to treat seventy-five percent (75%) of the remaining carried interest as ordinary income. A transition rule would apply prior to January 1, 2013. This proposal is currently being estimated by the Joint Committee on Taxation. Ensuring collection of employment taxes earned by certain service professionals. Social Security taxes are imposed on compensation and self-employment income up to the Social Security Wage Base (currently $106,800) and the Medicare tax is imposed on all self-employment and compensation income. Some service professionals have been avoiding Medicare and Social Security taxes by routing their self-employment income through an S corporation. These taxpayers then pay themselves a nominal salary and take the position that the remaining earnings are exempt from employment taxes. The bill would address this abuse in situations where (1) an S corporation is engaged in a professional service business that is principally based on the reputation and skill of 3 or fewer individuals or (2) an S corporation that is a partner in a professional service business. The bill would also clarify that individuals that are engaged in professional service businesses are unable to avoid employment taxes by routing their earnings through a limited liability corporation or a limited partnership. This proposal is estimated to raise $9.618 billion over 10 years. Clarification of gain recognized in certain spin-off transactions (e.g., “Reverse Morris Trust” transactions). Under current law, taxesare generally imposed on parent corporations where they extract value in excess of basis fromtheir subsidiaries prior to engaging in a tax-free spin-off transaction. Therefore, if a subsidiarycorporation distributes cash or other property to its parent in excess of the parent’s basis in thesubsidiary or if a subsidiary corporation assumes parent debt in excess of the parent’s basis in thesubsidiary, the parent corporation will recognize gain. However, taxes are not assessed if asubsidiary corporation distributes its own debt securities to a parent corporation prior to a spinoff transaction even where the value of these securities would exceed the parent corporation’sbasis in its subsidiary. The bill would treat distributions of debt securities in a tax-free spin-offtransaction in the same manner as distributions of cash or other property. Subject to a transition rule, the provision would apply to exchanges after the date of enactment. This provision is estimated to raise $260 million over 10 years. Taxation of dividends received in certain business reorganizations (e.g., the “boot-within-gain” limitation). Under current law, if a shareholder receives property other than stock (called “boot” by tax practitioners) in connection with certain business reorganizations then the amount of the dividend that the shareholder is required to recognize as income is limited to the amount of gain realized in the exchange (commonly referred to as the “boot within gain” limitation). This is so even if the property received would otherwise be considered to be a dividend for tax purposes. The President’s FY 2011 Budget states that “there is not a significant policy reason to vary the treatment of a distribution that otherwise qualified as a dividend by reference to whether it is received in the normal course of a corporation’s operations or is instead received as part of a reorganization exchange.” In addition, the Administration has identified specific abuses of this rule in cross-border reorganizations. They state, “in cross-border reorganizations, the boot-within-gain limitation can permit U.S. shareholders to repatriate previously-untaxed earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries with minimal U.S. tax consequences.” The bill would repeal the boot-within-gain limitation in the case of any reorganization transaction (that is, it would apply to both domestic and cross-border transactions) if the exchange has the effect of the distribution of a dividend. The bill would also ensure that an appropriate amount of earnings is taken into account in determining the amount of the dividend. Subject to a transition rule, the provision would apply to exchanges after the date of enactment. This provision is estimated to raise $460 million over 10 years. VIII. Maintaining Access to Affordable Health Care a. SGR Medicare physician payment rates. Medicare physician payment rates are scheduled to be reduced by more than 20 percent in June. This provision would provide reasonable updates in physician payment rates for the rest of this year and next year. For 2012 and 2013, rates would continue to increase if spending growth on physician services is within reasonable limits, with an extra allowance for primary and preventive care. Rates could not be reduced in 2012 or 2013, but after that rates would return to their current law levels. This provision is being estimated by the Congressional Budget Office. b. FMAP 6-month extension of temporary increase in Federal Medicaid Matching Rate (FMAP). Under current law, the federal Medicaid matching rate is increased by 6.2 percentage points for all States, and by additional percentage points for states with high unemployment. These temporary increases were enacted in ARRA in February 2009 in response to the increased Medicaid caseloads and decreasing state revenues resulting from the recession. The increase is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010. The bill would extend these increases for 6 months, through June 30, 2011. This will ensure that states continue to receive these increases throughout state fiscal year 2011. The provision is estimated to cost $24 billion over10 years. c. COBRA Extension of premium assistance for COBRA benefits. The ARRA created a program to provide a 65% COBRA health insurance premium subsidy for up to 15 months for workers who have been involuntarily terminated. Under current law, eligibility for the COBRA premium assistance program will expire for individuals terminated after May 31, 2010. The bill would extend eligibility for the program for individuals terminated on or before December 31, 2010. This provision is estimated to cost $7.799 billion over 10 years. d. Other Health Provisions Addition of inpatient drug discount program to 340B drug discount program. Under current law, drug manufacturers are required to provide certain hospitals and other entities that treat low-income and uninsured patients (including certain public hospitals, critical access hospitals, children’s hospitals, and cancer hospitals) with discounts so that the cost of outpatient drugs for these entities does not exceed the Medicaid price for the same drug. The bill would extend these discounts for certain 340B-eligible entities to inpatient drugs for use by patients who are uninsured or who do not have insurance that provides prescription drug coverage. This provision is estimated to cost $35 million over 10 years. Continued inclusion of orphan drugs in definition of covered outpatient drugs with respect to children’s hospitals under the 340B drug discount program. This provision would clarify that eligible children’s hospitals retain access to 340B drug discounts on orphan drugs. This provision has no cost. Extension of Section 508 reclassifications. Under current law, hospital geographic reclassifications authorized under section 508 of the Medicare Modernization Act expire on September 30, 2010. The bill would extend these reclassifications through FY 2011. The bill would also clarify that for certain reclassifications extended in previous legislation, the FY 2008 wage index values only applied for FYs 2008 and 2009. The bill would also create a transparent process whereby hospitals can view proposed wage index values that reflect the extension of Section 508 reclassifications for FY 2011 and notify CMS if they choose to discontinue their reclassification status. This provision is estimated to cost $300 million over 10 years. Repeal of delay of RUG-IV. Under current law, implementation of Version 4 of the Resource Utilization Groups (“RUG IV”) for purposes of reimbursing skilled nursing facilities under Medicare is delayed until October 1, 2011. The bill would repeal the delay and allow RUG IV to go into effect on October 1, 2010, consistent with the final SNF payment regulation for FY11. This provision has no cost. Funding for claims reprocessing. Extensions of Medicare payment policies for calendar year 2010 were enacted into law on March 23, 2010, requiring the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to reprocess Medicare claims back to January 1, 2010. The bill would provide funding for CMS to reprocess these claims. This provision costs $175 million over 10 years. Conforming amendment related to waiver of coinsurance for preventive services. The bill would clarify that waivers of cost sharing and deductibles for Medicare preventive services apply when those services are furnished at Federally Qualified Health Centers and Rural Health Clinics, as applicable. This provision has no cost. Establish a CMS-IRS data match to identify fraudulent providers. Under current law, CMS and IRS are not authorized to exchange information for the purposes of fighting Medicare fraud and screening potential new providers. This provision helps identify potentially fraudulent providers sooner by authorizing CMS to collaborate with the IRS to determine whether providers applying to enroll or re-enroll in Medicare have failed to file Federal tax returns or have delinquent tax debts. The data match would target certain high-risk provider types in high-vulnerability areas. This provision is estimated to save $400 million over 10 years. Clarification of effective date of Part B special enrollment period for disabled TRICARE beneficiaries. Under current law, disabled Medicare beneficiaries who are also eligible for TRICARE are eligible for a 12-month special enrollment period (SEP) for Medicare Part B in order to ensure that they properly enroll in Medicare Part B and retain their TRICARE eligibility. This provision would clarify the effective date of this SEP to ensure that beneficiaries can use it. This provision is estimated to cost $3 million over 10 years. Limitation on reasonable costs payments for certain clinical diagnostic laboratory tests furnished to hospital patients in certain rural areas. Under current law, cost-based payments for lab services at certain small hospitals are reinstated for one-year for cost reporting periods beginning after July 1, 2010. This policy previously expired on June 30, 2008 and has not been in effect for close to two years. The bill would repeal the reinstatement of this provision. This provision has no cost. Adjustment to Medicare payment localities. Under current law, the boundaries of payment localities in the state of California are determined using data that is almost 20 years old. This provision would update the method used to determine the localities used for Medicare’s physician geographic adjustment factor in California, utilizing an approach that is based on metropolitan statistical areas. This provision is being estimated by the Congressional Budget Office. Medicaid and CHIP technical corrections. The bill would make technical corrections to Medicaid and CHIP relating to exclusion from participation, income eligibility levels for children, measurement of payment error rates, coverage of children of state employees, and payment for electronic health records. These provisions have no cost. Clarification of 3-day payment window. Under current law, all services related to an inpatient admission are included in the bundled payment for that admission. The bill would conform the law with recent practice by preventing future unbundling of services and submission of adjustment claims seeking separate and additional Medicare payments. This provision is being estimated by the Congressional Budget Office. Extension of State Court Improvement Programs. The bill would extend for one year programs that now provide funds to help courts improve the processing of foster care and adoption cases. This provision is estimated to cost $20 million over 10 years. Cobell and Pigford settlements. The bill also contains $4.6 billion to pay for settlement of both the Cobell and Pigford class action lawsuits. The Cobell settlement concerns the government’s management and accounting for over 300,000 American Indians’ trust accounts, and the Pigford settlement ends a decades old discrimination lawsuit brought by black farmers against USDA. This provision is estimated to cost $4.6 billion over 10 years. Reinstate geothermal receipts formula. The bill would reinstate provisions that, for fiscal year 2010, would deposit all funds received from sales, bonuses, royalties, and rentals under the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 in the Treasury, of which (1) 50 percent shall be used by the Secretary of the Treasury to make payments to States within the boundaries of which the leased land and geothermal resources are located; (2) 25 percent shall be used by the Secretary of the Treasury to make payments to the counties within the boundaries of which the leased land or geothermal resources are located; and (3) 25 percent shall be deposited in miscellaneous receipts. This provision is estimated to cost $8 million over 10 years. Allows Secretary of the Interior to grant economy-related contract extensions to timber companies. Currently, the U.S. Forest Service has several options for helping timber companies adjust economically unviable timber contracts, but the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) does not have the same authorities. As a result, there are many timber companies which negotiated contracts three years ago with the BLM but can no longer afford to remove the timber based on the current contract terms. The bill would allow the Secretary of the Interior to add three years to the current contract expiration date. This would give companies the opportunity to wait for a better economic climate in which to remove timber from BLM lands, rather than mutually agreeing with the BLM to cancel their current contracts. This provision is estimated to have no cost. Reporting requirements for funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.The bill requires any agency funding a program provided for in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009 at a level of $2 billion and above make available on their website a description of the goals for the program, information on how the funding will be distributed, milestones for major phases of activities under the covered program, and performance measures being used by the agency. The bill also requires agencies to publish quarterly reports on ARRA programs, including information on progress towards goals, details on unobligated and unexpired balances, and whether the program has met milestones and performance standards. Civil penalties are authorized for recipients of recovery funds who do not report to the appropriate agency information on the use of such funds. This proposal is estimated to have no cost. Commerce Department study on job losses. The bill requires the Commerce Department to submit a report to Congress on job losses in New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest states over the past 20 years. The Commerce Department would study what role the off-shoring of manufacturing has played in job losses, and would be required to submit recommendations on how to attract industries and jobs to the regions. This proposal is estimated to have no cost. (####)
05.17.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA), today commented on the Obama Administration's implementation of the small business tax provision in health care reform. The Administration today issued new guidance making it easier for small businesses to determine their eligibility for tax credits while ensuring that they will not receive lower credits because of state credits and subsidies that may be available. “The new guidelines help small businesses determine their tax credit so they can provide quality health care for their employees,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI). “The tax credit is an important, immediate provision that frees up resources for future growth and job creation at those small businesses offering insurance.” "Over the last eight years, the percentage of small businesses providing coverage has dropped from 57 to 49 percent," said Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA). "One-third of the nation's uninsured works for small businesses. These tax credits will expand coverage by helping small businesses provide health care for their employees." For more information on what health reform does for small businesses, please visit: https://go.usa.gov/3l4 (####)
05.17.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin recognized today the artistic talents of local high school students who entered the 29th Annual Congressional Art Competition. Entries are on display until Sunday at Warren City Hall. “The art competition encourages the creative talents of our young people and gives them the opportunity to share their work with the thousands of visitors the Capitol receives each year,” said Rep. Levin. “Thank you to those who make this competition possible - the art teachers, parents, judges, and especially the student artists.” This year’s first place winner is Alecia Hansen with a watercolor painting named “Violet Landscape” done in pencil. Alecia is a 10th grader at Lakeview High School. As the first place winner, Alecia’s artwork will be prominently displayed for one year in the Cannon Corridor of the United States Capitol with winners from other congressional districts. The second place winner is Danielle Owensby. Danielle is a 12th grader from East Detroit High School. Her artwork, done in pen and ink, is called “Child’s Play”. The third place winner is Sarah Franz with a photograph called “Veiled”. Sarah is a 12th grader from Fraser High School. The annual competition is held to highlight the importance of art education in more than 200 congressional districts nationally. (####)
05.14.2010	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Representatives Gary Peters, Sander Levin and John Dingell have introduced legislation to help promote small business lending and create jobs. The legislation, the State Small Business Credit Initiative Act (H.R. 5302), will promote state-based partnerships with financial institutions to help small businesses and especially smaller manufacturers access the credit they need to innovate and grow. The three representatives originally introduced similar legislation in February and have been working with the Administration on how best to address specific issues that have kept too many businesses from accessing credit. Last Friday President Obama announced his support for a revised proposal, the legislation the three Michigan representatives have now introduced. The Financial Services Committee is scheduled to vote on this and other small business lending legislation as early as next week. “Michigan small business owners tell me they are ready to invest and create jobs again if they could just get a loan,” said Rep. Peters. “Wall Street banks won’t lend to Michigan small businesses and that is slowing job creation and hurting our recovery. We need an alternative way to get our entrepreneurs and innovators the credit they need to grow.” “Businesses everywhere, and particularly manufacturers, are rapidly adapting to new technology and working to improve their global competitiveness,” said Rep. Levin. “The lynchpin of their ability to expand, diversify, and hire is access to credit. State credit access initiatives, like the one in Michigan, have shown their ability to get capital in the hands of those who will use it to grow the local economy and these efforts should be strengthened.” “The growth of small businesses in my district, and indeed across the country, is hampered by a persistent lack of private credit,” said Rep. Dingell. “The State Small Business Credit Initiative Act will provide federal support to states to implement capital access and collateral support programs, which have a proven track record of stimulating private lending with very small amounts of public resources. It is imperative that this legislation be enacted so that small businesses, traditionally the drivers of growth in the American economy, once again can access private credit and in so doing, create the jobs this country so direly needs.” H.R. 5302 will strengthen the Michigan Collateral Support Program and help states create or improve other innovative lending programs that will quickly inject needed capital into small businesses. The Administration also announced last Friday its support for a plan to promote lending to a wide variety of small businesses through a partnership with smaller, local community banks. Congressman Peters plans to offer H.R. 5302 as an amendment to the broader small business plan when the Financial Services Committee considers the legislation. Background: The State Small Business Credit Initiative Act (H.R. 5302), introduced by Reps. Gary Peters, Sander Levin and John Dingell, authorizes two types of state lending programs: Capital Access Programs and “other innovative loan programs.” Both types of programs use small amounts of public resources to generate large amounts of private bank financing. • Capital Access Programs: These programs have already been successfully implemented in about 30 states. They create loan portfolio insurance programs for each participating financial institution supported by fees paid by the borrower, the lender, and the state. By bolstering the reserve pools that protect lenders from default risk, states are able to help banks and credit unions expand the range of small businesses to which they are willing to lend. • Other Innovative Loan Programs: These are new programs developed by the states or existing credit support programs. A state must establish that every dollar of federal investment will be matched by at least one dollar of private funds in each program funded. They must also show that, in total, their programs will support at least ten dollars in private lending for everyone dollar in federal support. Participating lenders must share in the risk of default with the government. Cosponsors of H.R. 5302: • Rep. Dan Maffei• Rep. John Sarbanes• Rep. Silvestre Reyes• Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton• Rep. Mark Schauer• Rep. Bill Pascrell• Rep. Bart Stupak• Rep. Niki Tsongas• Rep. Melvin L. Watt • Rep. Paul Tonko• Rep. Bob Etheridge• Rep. Linda Sánchez• Rep. John Adler• Rep. Paul Kanjorski• Rep. Dennis Moore • Rep. Mike Michaud• Rep. Betty Sutton • Rep. Melissa Bean• Rep. Dan Lipinski• Rep. Gwen Moore • Rep. Dave Loebsack• Rep. Dale Kildee• Rep. Brad Miller (####)
05.12.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced today that the Ferndale Fire Department and Mount Clemens Fire Department will be the recipients of firefighter assistance grants. Congressman Levin wrote letters to DHS in support of both grant applications. “The fire department grants announced today mean equipment in the hands of our firefighters so they can perform the duties so important to the safety of our communities,” said Rep. Levin. The Ferndale Fire Department will receive a $675,000 grant in addition to the $56,250 grant they were awarded at the beginning of the month. The new grant will purchase a 100-foot Aerial Platform Apparatus to allow firefighters to safely respond to emergencies and put out fires in high rise buildings. The earlier award was to upgrade the vehicle exhaust extraction system in the fire station to improve air quality for firefighters who reside at the station between calls. The Mount Clemens Fire Department will receive $617,500 to purchase a new ladder truck. "This grant will help us replace a 28 year old ladder truck whose constant repair costs have become quite burdensome,” said Gregg Shipman, Captain of the Mount Clemens Fire Department. “Given the financial state of the community, there is no way the Fire Department would be able to purchase a new vehicle without this funding." (####)
05.07.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the Bureau of Labor Statistics issued its monthly employment report finding that in the month of April, the economy created 290,000 jobs, including 231,000 in the private sector, for the largest number of new jobs in four years. Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI), issued the following statement: “Today’s report offers us encouraging news-for the fourth consecutive month the economy has created jobs proving that we have indeed turned the corner toward real job growth. It is especially noteworthy that the manufacturing sector created 44,000 jobs last month, the highest in over a decade. However, while we have made progress, there is a significant amount of work left for us to do to address the 15 million Americans who remain unemployed. We are working to pass legislation this month to extend unemployment benefits and health assistance for unemployed workers and to stimulate further job creation through tax incentives for businesses and infrastructure financing for State and local governments.” Key findings in today’s report: 290,000 jobs created in April, including 231,000 in the private sector. 573,000 jobs created since December, including 483,000 in the private sector; jobs have now been created in 5 of the last 6 months. 44,000 manufacturing jobs were created in April, the largest increase since 1998. The increase in employment was broad based. In addition to manufacturing gains, construction was up 14,000, wholesale and retail trade was up over 16,000, professional and business services was up 80,000, education and health services was up 35,000, and leisure and hospitality was up 45,000. The 26,200 employment increase in temporary help services is the smallest since September 2009, suggesting that job creation could be shifting toward more permanent jobs. The unemployment rate rose slightly to 9.9 percent but this is the result of 805,000 more people entering the workforce, due to growing optimism. March numbers revised up to 230,000 jobs created (from 162,000). February numbers revised up to +39,000 (from -14,000). When President Obama took office, he inherited an economy that was losing nearly 800,000 jobs per month. That’s turned around dramatically since passage of the Recovery Act, and the economy created nearly 300,000 jobs last month. Click here for a chart illustrating job figures from the beginning of the recession in December, 2007. (####)
05.06.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved legislation to provide rebates and loans for home energy efficiency improvements. The Home Star Energy Retrofit Act passed by a bipartisan vote of 246 to 161. The legislation must now be considered by the US Senate. “Utility bills are the second highest cost of home ownership today, exceeded only by the mortgage payment. The Home Star bill will lower homeowners’ monthly utility bills and also create jobs, stimulate domestic manufacturing, and strengthen U.S. energy security,” said Rep. Levin. “Providing up-front rebates to consumers to increase their homes’ energy efficiency is one of the most effective steps we can take to create jobs, save energy, and help homeowners save money.” Almost all of the 130 million homes in the United States can be retrofitted with energy efficient equipment and materials to achieve energy savings, according to a report by the House Energy and Commerce Committee. American homes account for about 33% of the nation’s total electricity demand and approximately 22% of all energy use. If fully funded, the Home Star program will help 3 million American families complete projects, with estimated energy savings greater than $9 billion over 10 years. The Committee also estimates that 92% of the energy efficient products and materials for which the rebates will stimulate sales are manufactured in the United States. In addition, demand for retrofitting services will increase local employment. An estimated 168,000 new jobs will be created. The legislation is endorsed by the National Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Home Builders, environmental groups, and more a coalition of more than 1000 businesses and organizations, including the Blue Green Alliance, Dow, Home Depot, Marvin Windows, and Lowe’s. The program builds on the home energy efficiency tax credit, contained in the Recovery Act, which offers up to $1,500 for efficiency upgrades completed in 2009 or 2010. The Home Star program is designed to provide rebates in 2010 and 2011. The Home Star program offers two different consumer incentives: Silver Star – This path provides in-store rebates for specific energy-saving investments, including insulation, duct sealing, furnaces, windows and doors, air sealing and water heaters. Homeowners receive up to $1,500 per measure, with a rebate not exceeding $3,000 or 50 percent of the total project cost. Gold Star – This performance path rewards homeowners who conduct a comprehensive energy audit and implement a variety of measures to reduce energy use. Consumers receive $3,000 for a demonstrated savings of 20 percent, plus an additional $1,000 for each additional 5 percent energy savings with a maximum rebate of $8,000. (####)
05.05.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed bipartisan legislation to help speed Haiti’s economic recovery following the devastating January earthquake that shattered the country’s economy. H.R. 5160, The Haiti Economic Lift Program (HELP) Act expands duty-free access to the U.S. market for additional Haitian textile and apparel exports and extends existing trade preference programs for Haiti through 2020. The legislation now heads to the U.S. Senate where it is expected to receive strong bipartisan support as well. “We have heard a lot about the challenges facing Haiti: they are the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere; they suffer from between 70-80 percent unemployment in the formal sector, even before the earthquake; and three-quarters of the population lives on less than $2 a day,” said Representative Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), a longtime advocate for Haiti and lead sponsor H.R. 5160. “We have heard little, however, about the important strides that the government and people of Haiti were making to promote economic growth and development prior to the earthquake. Once the earthquake hit, it became clear that something needed to be done to help Haiti regain the footing that it had worked so hard to attain. This legislation does that. It is not a panacea for all of the new challenges that Haiti now faces, but it sends a clear message to buyers and investors that Haiti does not stand alone in meeting the challenges before it. We, Americans, stand with Haiti.” “The HOPE program has been an important element of the U.S.-Haiti trade relationship,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “Through this program, the Haitian apparel industry was able to make significant progress prior to the January 12 earthquake. Haiti is the only U.N.-designated ‘least developed country’ in this Hemisphere, and jobs in the apparel sector were – and are – critical to the aim of helping Haiti lift itself off this list. While all of this progress was good for Haiti, it was also good for the United States. As the Haitian apparel industry gained strength, the greatest area of growth was in apparel made with U.S. textiles and yarns. Today’s bill helps continue this progress so that we may grow together to overcome the tragedy of this earthquake.” “I want to thank my colleagues in the House and Senate for their work on this legislation,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI). “Through bipartisan, bicameral cooperation, we have been able to craft legislation that will deliver critical economic assistance to help stabilize Haiti while recognizing concerns of U.S. stakeholders. I urge the Senate to quickly pass and the President to sign this bill.” Building on the existing Haitian Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement (HOPE) program, The HELP Act will help create sustainable, good-paying jobs in Haiti’s apparel industry by expanding tariff benefits for certain Haitian textile and apparel exports to the United States. Senate Finance and House Ways and Means leaders worked closely with the U.S. retail and textile industries to craft the HELP Act and both industries have expressed their support for the bill. In February, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk announced the Plus One for Haiti program, which calls on the U.S. apparel industry to source one percent of its apparel imports from Haiti. The HELP Act supports that goal by making it more cost effective for U.S. companies to import Haitian textiles and apparel. Earlier this year, Representatives Rangel and Camp introduced legislation (H.R. 4462) to allow individuals making donations to Haitian relief to claim the deduction on their 2009 tax return. Congress also passed legislation (S. 2949) to aid American citizens returning home after the earthquake. Both bills were unanimously approved by Congress and have been signed into law. A summary of the HELP Act follows below. Click here for text of the legislation. Summary of the Haiti Economic Lift Program (HELP) Act of 2010 • Extends CBTPA and HOPE - The bill extends the Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act (CBTPA) and the Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement Act (HOPE) through September 30, 2020. • Expands the Wholly Assembled List - The bill provides duty-free treatment for additional textile and apparel products that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti regardless of the origin of the inputs. • Increases the Tariff Preference Levels - The bill increases from 70 million square meter equivalents (SMEs) to 200 million SMEs the respective tariff preference levels (TPLs) under which certain Haitian knit and woven apparel products may receive duty-free treatment regardless of the origin of the inputs. The increase will be triggered in any given year if 52 million SMEs of Haitian apparel enter the United States under the existing knit or woven TPL. Once the increase is triggered, certain knit apparel products entering duty-free under the knit TPL will be subject to an 85 million SME sublimit, and certain woven apparel products entering duty-free under the woven TPL will be subject to a 70 million SME sublimit. • Safeguards against Transshipment - The bill requires U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to verify that apparel articles imported under the TPLs are not being unlawfully transshipped into the United States. The bill also authorizes the President to reduce the TPLs to account for unlawful apparel transshipment. • Liberalizes the Earned Import Allowance Rule - The bill permits the duty-free importation into the United States of one SME of apparel wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti regardless of the origin of the inputs for every two SMEs of qualifying fabric purchased from the United States. • Extends the Value-Added Rule - The bill extends until December 20, 2015, the rule that provides duty-free treatment for apparel wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti with at least 50 percent value from Haiti, the United States, a U.S. free trade agreement partner or preference program beneficiary, or a combination thereof. The bill similarly extends until December 20, 2017, duty-free treatment for Haitian apparel with at least 55 percent of value from qualifying countries, and until December 20, 2018, duty-free treatment for Haitian apparel with at least 60 percent of value from qualifying countries. • Extends Duty-Free Treatment for Wire Harnesses - The bill extends until December 20, 2016, the rule that provides duty-free treatment for wire harness automotive components imported from Haiti. • Customs Support Services - The bill requires CBP to assess Haiti’s customs-related needs and provide assistance to reestablish Haiti’s port operations. The bill also requires CBP to provide to the Congress a report that describes Haiti’s customs infrastructure needs, sets forth a plan for providing technical assistance, and describes any funds expended to assist Haiti in rebuilding its customs infrastructure. And the bill authorizes funds to help Haiti meet its immediate customs infrastructure needs, and to maintain a U.S. customs team in Haiti. • Sense of Congress - The bill expresses the sense of Congress that the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative should consult with U.S. trading partners to encourage the establishment of unilateral preference programs with Haiti, and that CBP should consult with U.S. trading partners to prevent unlawful transshipment of textile and apparel products through Haiti into the United States. (####)
05.05.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced today that the Warren Fire Department and Ferndale Fire Department will be the recipients of firefighter assistance grants. Congressman Levin wrote letters to DHS in support of both grant applications. “The fire department grants announced today mean needed improvements so firefighters in these two communities are better equipped and able to protect local citizens,” said Rep. Levin. “It is vital to community safety for our first responders to have the facilities and equipment they need.” The Warren Fire Department will receive $198,720 to purchase six monitor/defibrillators on its fire engines. The devices will give emergency responders the latest in important lifesaving technology. “Public safety is a top priority in Warren,” said Warren Mayor Jim Fouts. “This equipment will save lives and I appreciate the effort put forth by Congressman Levin’s office to help secure this funding.” The Ferndale Fire Department will receive $56,250 to upgrade its vehicle exhaust extraction system. The new system will remove vehicle exhaust from the building, improving air quality for firefighters who reside there between calls, and filter harmful products out of the air before releasing it outside the station. "The Ferndale Fire Department and the city of Ferndale are very grateful for this award to protect our employees from the adverse effects of exhaust in the building," said Acting Ferndale Fire Chief Kevin Sullivan. (####)
05.04.2010	(Washington D.C.)- President Obama today announced that his Administration will begin implementing an important program from the Affordable Care Act that will provide significant relief to American businesses and quality, affordable health care for their early retirees. Starting this year, the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program will provide $5 billion in financial assistance to employers so that early retirees, age 55 and older, and their families maintain health coverage. "This is yet another example of how health reform will help people this year,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “My home state of Michigan, in particular, has been hit hard by the recession and by the economic pressures that threaten retiree coverage, especially for those ages 55-64. This fund will help ensure that the coverage workers have earned will remain available for their critical health needs.""Today's announcement is another example of health reform working for people now,” said Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA). “Early retirees often have trouble finding affordable health care on their own before they become eligible for Medicare. This new early retiree health program will help businesses maintain coverage for their retirees, providing important assistance to firms that have continued to do right by their workers." More details on the provision as provided by the Department of Health and Human Services: The Affordable Care ActEarly Retiree Reinsurance Program Rising costs have made it difficult for employers to provide quality, affordable health insurance for workers and retirees while also remaining competitive in the global marketplace. Many Americans who retire without employer-sponsored insurance and before they are eligible for Medicare see their life savings disappear because of exorbitant rates in the individual market. The Early Retiree Reinsurance Program will provide much-needed financial relief for employers so retirees can get quality, affordable insurance starting this year. Quality, Affordable Care for Early Retirees The percentage of large firms providing workers with retiree coverage has dropped from 66 percent in 1988 to 31 percent in 2008. The Affordable Care Act provides $5 billion in financial assistance to employers to help them maintain coverage for early retirees age 55 and older who are not yet eligible for Medicare. Employers can use their savings to either reduce their own health care costs, provide premium relief to their workers and families or a combination of both. Relief for Businesses This temporary program will make it easier for employers to provide coverage to early retirees. Employers who are accepted into the program will receive reinsurance reimbursement for medical claims for retirees age 55 and older who are not eligible for Medicare, and their spouses, surviving spouses, and dependents. Health benefits that qualify for relief include medical, surgical, hospital, prescription drug, and other benefits that may be specified by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as well as coverage for mental health services. The amount of this reimbursement to the employer plan is up to 80% of claims costs for health benefits between $15,000 and $90,000. Claims incurred on or after June 1, 2010 are eligible for reimbursement under this program. Both self-funded and insured plans can apply, including plans sponsored by private entities, state and local governments, nonprofits, religious entities, unions, and other employers. Bridge to 2014 HHS will begin the Early Retiree Program on June 1, 2010, in advance of the June 21 start date required by the Affordable Care Act, allowing more claims to qualify for reinsurance payments for plans this year. Eligible employers can apply for the program through the Department of Health and Human Services. Applications will be available in June. To receive assistance, plans must have their applications approved, document claims, and implement programs and procedures that have or have the potential to generate cost savings for participants with chronic and high-cost conditions. Once a plan is accepted into the program, payments will be retroactive for claims made in that plan year. Plans will be subject to audits to assure fiscal integrity. The Early Retiree Reinsurance Program will assist these employer plans and individuals with the cost of health care coverage and health care. The program ends on January 1, 2014 when early retirees will be able to choose from the additional coverage options that will be available in the health insurance exchanges. (####)
04.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Yesterday, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA) joined colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce and Education and Labor Committees in a letter to insurance companies, asking them to end the practice of rescission – canceling an individual's coverage once he or she becomes sick – except in cases of fraud or intentional misrepresentation. The letter also asked that insurers have an independent third party review all proposed policy cancellations. Click here to view a copy of the letter from leading House Democrats: https://go.usa.gov/iPx Following a reported conference call last night with insurance company CEOs, several insurance companies, including United Healthcare, Humana, and BlueShield California, today responded to House Democrats' letter by saying that they would immediately begin implementing the ban on rescissions in the health reform legislation. Yesterday afternoon, WellPoint made the same pledge. Kaiser Permanente also responded that they have not rescinded any health coverage since they ended the policy of rescission several years ago. In reaction to this news, Ways and Means Chairman Sander M. Levin and Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark issued the following statements: “There is a lesson to be learned here,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “These companies have seen the writing on the wall and decided to align their practices with the law of the land even before they are required to do so. This should send a message to all involved that working to implement health insurance reform provisions seamlessly and in good faith is the best course going forward.” “Republicans can take a cue from the insurance industry this week,” said Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark. “Now that health reform is law, insurers appear to be working to help implement important consumer protections ahead of schedule. It's time for Republicans to stop pandering to the tea party crowd with calls for repeal, and work together to implement reforms that will improve Americans' health care." (####)
04.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus (D]MT), along with Ways and Means Ranking Member Dave Camp (D-MI), Finance Ranking Member Chuck Grassley (R]IA), and Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) introduced legislation today to help speed Haiti’s economic recovery following the devastating January earthquake that shattered the country’s economy. The Haiti Economic Lift Program (HELP) Act, introduced in both the House and Senate today, expands duty-free access to the U.S. market for additional Haitian textile and apparel exports and extends existing trade preference programs for Haiti through 2020. “On January 12, Haiti met with an unthinkable crisis, one that no nation ever hopes to bear,” said Representative Charles B. Rangel, a longtime advocate for Haiti. “We were presented with a challenge too -- how to help our sister nation through such a crisis. This legislation is one critical part of the answer. The Haitian garment sector, Haiti’s flagship industry, was making important strides prior to the earthquake and helping the country’s economy establish a stable foothold. With this legislation, we will help to get the garment sector and Haiti’s economy back on that critical trajectory.” “Today’s legislation responds to the clear call to action Americans heard in the wake of the devastating earthquake in Haiti,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin. “This legislation provides important incentives to expand trade and investment in Haiti and it does so in a manner respectful of the complementarities of the industries in our two countries. It reflects careful consideration and collaboration with stakeholders here in the United States as well as Haitian industry representatives and provides a way forward that works to the benefit of workers and businesses in both countries.” “I am proud that we have been able to craft a bipartisan, bicameral agreement that provides meaningful assistance to Haiti and addresses the concerns of our U.S. industry,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Dave Camp. “These benefits will encourage the long term investment Haiti desperately needs for its economic recovery and future stability. This legislation builds on the short term assistance that Congress provided earlier this year to accelerate the tax benefits for charitable donations to the Haitian relief effort. I am pleased to have participated in both these efforts. These are excellent examples of how Congress can work in a bipartisan fashion to promote trade and investment in the region and to create strong hemispheric partnerships.” “The devastating earthquake in Haiti took the lives – and livelihoods – of hundreds of thousands of our neighbors in Haiti, and they need our help to begin rebuilding their country,” Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus said. “By improving access to the U.S. market for Haitian textile and apparel products, our bill will provide the long-term assistance Haiti needs to get back on its feet. This bill is a common-sense approach with support from both sides of the aisle in both the House and Senate, and I urge my colleagues to work with us to quickly pass this legislation.” “This bill reflects a bipartisan, bicameral compromise that balances the concerns of domestic producers with providing meaningful trade benefits for Haiti’s apparel sector,” Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Chuck Grassley said. “The legislation will help to spur investment and create jobs in Haiti and so assist that country in its long-term economic recovery from the devastating earthquake. At the same time, the legislation addresses the concerns that have been expressed by the U.S. textile industry with respect to both domestic and regional production of textiles and apparel. I hope to see the bill enacted into law as soon as possible.” Building on the existing Haitian Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement (HOPE) program, The HELP Act will help create sustainable, good-paying jobs in Haiti’s apparel industry by expanding tariff benefits for certain Haitian textile and apparel exports to the United States. Senate Finance and House Ways and Means leaders worked closely with the U.S. retail and textile industries to craft the HELP Act and both industries have expressed their support for the bill. In February, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk announced the Plus One for Haiti program, which calls on the U.S. apparel industry to source one percent of its apparel imports from Haiti. The HELP Act supports that goal by making it more cost effective for U.S. companies to import Haitian textiles and apparel. Earlier this year, Representatives Rangel and Camp introduced legislation (H.R. 4462) to allow individuals making donations to Haitian relief to claim the deduction on their 2009 tax return. Congress also passed legislation (S. 2949) to aid American citizens returning home after the earthquake. Both bills were unanimously approved by Congress and have been signed into law. A summary of the HELP Act follows below. Click here for text of the legislation. Summary of the Haiti Economic Lift Program (HELP) Act of 2010 • Extends CBTPA and HOPE - The bill extends the Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act (CBTPA) and the Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement Act (HOPE) through September 30, 2020. • Expands the Wholly Assembled List - The bill provides duty-free treatment for additional textile and apparel products that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti regardless of the origin of the inputs. • Increases the Tariff Preference Levels - The bill increases from 70 million square meter equivalents (SMEs) to 200 million SMEs the respective tariff preference levels (TPLs) under which certain Haitian knit and woven apparel products may receive duty-free treatment regardless of the origin of the inputs. The increase will be triggered in any given year if 52 million SMEs of Haitian apparel enter the United States under the existing knit or woven TPL. Once the increase is triggered, certain knit apparel products entering duty-free under the knit TPL will be subject to an 85 million SME sublimit, and certain woven apparel products entering duty-free under the woven TPL will be subject to a 70 million SME sublimit. • Safeguards against Transshipment - The bill requires U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to verify that apparel articles imported under the TPLs are not being unlawfully transshipped into the United States. The bill also authorizes the President to reduce the TPLs to account for unlawful apparel transshipment. • Liberalizes the Earned Import Allowance Rule - The bill permits the duty-free importation into the United States of one SME of apparel wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti regardless of the origin of the inputs for every two SMEs of qualifying fabric purchased from the United States. • Extends the Value-Added Rule - The bill extends until December 20, 2015, the rule that provides duty-free treatment for apparel wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti with at least 50 percent value from Haiti, the United States, a U.S. free trade agreement partner or preference program beneficiary, or a combination thereof. The bill similarly extends until December 20, 2017, duty-free treatment for Haitian apparel with at least 55 percent of value from qualifying countries, and until December 20, 2018, duty-free treatment for Haitian apparel with at least 60 percent of value from qualifying countries. • Extends Duty-Free Treatment for Wire Harnesses - The bill extends until December 20, 2016, the rule that provides duty-free treatment for wire harness automotive components imported from Haiti. • Customs Support Services - The bill requires CBP to assess Haiti’s customs-related needs and provide assistance to reestablish Haiti’s port operations. The bill also requires CBP to provide to the Congress a report that describes Haiti’s customs infrastructure needs, sets forth a plan for providing technical assistance, and describes any funds expended to assist Haiti in rebuilding its customs infrastructure. And the bill authorizes funds to help Haiti meet its immediate customs infrastructure needs, and to maintain a U.S. customs team in Haiti. • Sense of Congress - The bill expresses the sense of Congress that the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative should consult with U.S. trading partners to encourage the establishment of unilateral preference programs with Haiti, and that CBP should consult with U.S. trading partners to prevent unlawful transshipment of textile and apparel products through Haiti into the United States. (####)
04.27.2010	(Washington D.C.) – Earlier today Chairman Levin and Health Subcommittee Chairman Stark joined leading colleagues from the House Committees on Energy and Commerce and Education and Labor calling upon health insurance companies to immediately end the practice of rescission – terminating an individual’s coverage once he or she becomes sick – except in cases of fraud or material misrepresentation. Click here to view a copy of the letter from leading House Democrats. Shortly after the letter was sent, WellPoint, a large insurer and one of the recipients of the letter, publicly announced it would comply with the request. In reaction to this news, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA) issued the following statements: “WellPoint’s rescissions have drawn a great deal of attention to this reprehensible practice,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin. “While I welcome the news that they will immediately implement the ban on individual policy rescissions, I strongly encourage other companies that have engaged in this practice to immediately follow suit.” "The race is on,” said Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark. “WellPoint took the first step, now it's up to the other insurance companies to show they're serious about making health reform work. They need to end rescissions, and put in place a system where every proposed cancellation is reviewed by an independent third party." (####)
04.27.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Committee and Subcommittee Chairs from the House Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and Education and Labor today sent a letter to the CEOs of seven insurance companies, most of whom last week announced they were allowing individuals up to age 26 to get coverage through their parents' health insurance, ahead of health reform legislation taking effect. The letter urges the firms to end the practice of rescissions -- terminating an individual's coverage once he or she becomes sick -- except in cases of fraud or material misrepresentation. The letter also asks that these insurers institute independent third-party review whenever a policy is to be rescinded or canceled. The letter was signed by House Ways and Means Chair Sander M. Levin (D-MI), House Energy and Commerce Chair Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), House Education and Labor Chair George Miller (D-CA), House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chair Pete Stark (D-CA), House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chair Frank Pallone (D-NJ), House Energy and Commerce Oversight Subcommittee Chair Bart Stupak (D-MI), House Energy and Commerce Chairman Emeritus John D. Dingell (D-MI), and House Education and Labor Health Subcommittee Chair Robert Andrews (D-NJ). The text of the letter appears below. 27, 2010 April Angela F. Braly Chair of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer WellPoint Inc. George C. Halvorson Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kaiser Permanente Don Hamm President and Chief Executive Officer Assurant Health Stephen J. Hemsley President and Chief Executive Officer UnitedHealth Group Inc. Michael B. McCallister President and Chief Executive Officer Humana Inc. Scott P. Serota President and Chief Executive Officer Blue Cross Blue Shield Association Ronald A. Williams Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Aetna Inc. Dear Madam and Sirs: Last week, most of your companies announced plans to implement ahead of schedule the provision in the health reform law allowing individuals up to age 26 to obtain coverage through their parents' health insurance. This step will help many bridge the gap between graduation and the effective date of this requirement. This decision signals that you are willing to work to make health insurance more accessible and affordable. We commend you for this step. Also last week, Secretary Sebelius, reacting to recent media reports, wrote to Ms. Braly asking that WellPoint immediately end its efforts to rescind health insurance coverage except in cases of fraud or intentional misrepresentation of material fact. These rescissions hurt patients who need coverage the most, such as women diagnosed with breast cancer. We are writing to ask all of your companies to end any such abusive practices immediately. In addition, to ensure that rescissions occur only in cases of fraud or intentional misrepresentation of material fact, we request that each of your companies immediately institute a policy of independent, external third party review. Under such a procedure, no individual health insurance policy should be rescinded until the review confirms that fraud or material misrepresentation has in fact occurred. Taking these actions now would be consistent with your earlier decision to implement consumer protections for individuals under 26 voluntarily and would further demonstrate a commitment to reliable coverage for your policyholders. Sincerely, Sander Levin Chair, House Committee on Ways and Means Henry A. Waxman Chair, House Committee on Energy and Commerce George Miller Chair, House Committee on Education and Labor Pete Stark Chair, House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Frank Pallone, Jr. Chair, House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Bart Stupak Chair, House Energy and Commerce Oversight Subcommittee John D. Dingell Chairman Emeritus, House Committee on Energy and Commerce Rob Andrews Chair, House Education and Labor Health Subcommittee cc: Karen Ignagni, America's Health Insurance Plans (####)
04.23.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D-CA) released the following statements today upon release of a report by the Chief Actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS): Chairman Levin: “This report illustrates the value of the investment we are making with health reform. Any increase provided in spending pays tremendous dividends, expanding coverage to an additional ten percent of Americans – millions who currently are without basic insurance -- with less than a one percent increase in national health expenditures. This report does not look at all aspects of reform. The comprehensive analyses from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) show that health insurance reform will reduce the Federal deficit and help put our nation back on track toward fiscal responsibility. “According to the CMS Actuary, 93 percent (95 by CBO’s estimate) of Americans would be covered under health care reform. This is an historic step forward for our nation. Absent the critical reforms signed into law more than 30 million people – hardworking families and businesses -- would continue to fall victim to skyrocketing health care costs, and be unable to gain the coverage they need and deserve. Contrary to Republican talking points, this is not a ‘government takeover’ of health care, in fact, this reform empowers Americans to take control of their health care and offers them more, affordable choices to meet their needs.” Health Subcommittee Chairman Stark: "The Chief Actuary confirms what we've been saying – those on Medicare benefit from health reform. Annual premiums will be reduced by nearly $200, and cost sharing for the average beneficiary will be more than $200 lower. The legislation also eliminates the ‘donut’ hole and ensures that many preventive services are free under Medicare. Health reform strengthens Medicare by extending the life of the Medicare Trust Fund by 12 years to 2029. "Republicans point to the Actuary's cost analysis, but they're forgetting their own history. In 2003, when we were debating a Republican Medicare proposal, they first tried to deep six the CMS Actuary’s analysis when they didn’t like what it said, and then dismissed it when it eventually was released because it was much higher than the CBO analysis. In the end, it turns out that the OACT estimate overstated the bill's cost by 37 percent." (####)
04.21.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The website of Congressman Sander Levin (levin.house.gov) was awarded a Gold Mouse by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) today. Over the past year, CMF analyzed all 620 congressional websites, including those of all Senate and House Members, Congressional Committees, and official leadership sites. “Providing information to constituents and encouraging back and forth discussions online is an important part of my work,” said Rep. Levin. “We had a lot of fun finding creative ways to improve our website and I’m pleased with their recognition.” Congressman Levin has expanded the information on his website and integrated new tools to foster communication with constituents. Features include: My Schedule – a daily posting of the Congressman’s schedule; Assistance with Federal Agencies – step by step instructions on how constituents can seek assistance with a claim or address a problem with any federal agency; The Congressional Connector – an E-Newsletter sent out every week that Congress is in session with updates on legislative action and community activities; Health Care Hub – a one-stop location to learn about the new health care reform law, how it may affect you, and view video health care stories from constituents; Recovery Map – an interactive map detailing how funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is spent in the district; Government Oversight – a page devoted to transparency with information on financial disclosure, project requests, and office disbursements; Facebook, YouTube, Flickr The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Awards are part of CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union, which seeks to improve the quality of communication between Members and their constituents. For this project CMF partnered with researchers from the Harvard Kennedy School, Northeastern University, University of California–Riverside, and the Ohio State University to study how Members of Congress can use the Internet to improve communications with their constituents and to promote greater participation in the legislative process. Websites were graded on how well they incorporate five core principles that CMF identified through extensive research as critical for effectiveness: know your audience, provide timely and targeted content that meets their needs, make the site easy to use, foster interaction both on and offline, and add value through innovation. Of the 620 websites evaluated, 135 were awarded a Bronze Mouse, Silver Mouse, Gold Mouse, or Platinum Mouse. The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Project report, a full listing winners, and other comparative data will be available on CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union website at www.pmpu.org at 6pm on Wednesday April 21st. (####)
04.19.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) delivered the following remarks at the National Press Club today as a featured guest in their Newsmaker’s Luncheon series. Below are Chairman Levin’s remarks as prepared for delivery. You can also click here to watch his remarks and the question and answer session which followed. “Charting a Course from Recession to Recovery in an Age of Reform”** As Prepared for Delivery ** “In the 27 years that I have been in the Congress, there have been some momentous challenges, sometimes contentious, other times not. “The recession of the early 1980s; the conflict with the Soviet Union and its end; the debate over the Clinton healthcare proposal and the Republican takeover of the House in 1994; the terrorist attacks of 9-11; and the war in Iraq. “I recall vividly heading home right after the vote on the 1993 Clinton Deficit Reduction bill. As so often, I looked forward to a town hall meeting. Held in the center of a local mall, it was indeed a turbulent session. “Today is still very different. “We are at a major crossroads. In a democracy, every generation or so, there occur conditions which can be described by a seemingly strange label: “A Perfect Storm’ -- defined as a ‘rare combination of circumstances that aggravate a situation drastically.’ “This volatile combination today includes: 1. The deepest economic recession since the Great Depression, an historic financial meltdown and the globalizing of our economy. All impacting seriously families and communities. 2. Bush Administration policies that contributed to an historically high level of income inequalities, with very upper income families doing still better and the incomes of middle class families stagnating further, amidst an historic increase in the national debt replacing projected budget surpluses. 3. Neglect of public programs intended to provide safeguards for families in need. A disgraceful example is the doubling of the Social Security Disability backlog in eight years, hundreds of thousands waiting two or three years or more for a decision. And an unemployment insurance system that too often failed to help many jobless workers. 4. The largest U.S. trade deficits in recorded history – twice as large as the previous record in the 1980s and a major drag on economic growth and a contributor to the global financial crisis. “When such a combination creates a ‘Perfect Storm’, there are rarely going to be perfect answers. Most if not all actions will likely be imperfect, but inaction is more often than not the most imperfect. “Major change is the only course. This will inevitably in a democracy bring a clash of ideas. The clash now has been intensified by the loss of moderates within Republican ranks. I tried several decades ago to be elected Governor of Michigan against a moderate Republican. If I might say so, he and I today are much closer in our ideas than he is to those dominant in today’s Republican Party. “Healthcare became the arena for an intense battle of ideas and rhetoric. “The Obama Administration inherited a healthcare system the best in terms of innovation and almost the worst among industrial nations in terms of cost and coverage. The unsuccessful Clinton reform effort was followed by eight years of inaction under the Bush Administration as costs and coverage problems grew still worse. “So we acted. Basic change creates resistance and the nation heard claims of impending disaster similar to those heard surrounding the passage of Social Security and Medicare. The Jobs Agenda: “It turned out that prognostications were wrong. The clash has not immobilized -- but energized -- those of us in the Majority. This happens when people do what they believe in and believe their actions will be in the best American tradition, spreading the wings of opportunity and community. “On return last week, we turned to the number one priority -- jobs. The deeper the recession the longer is the traditional lag in job creation on the way out of the recession. Actions have led to significant stabilization; we must undertake additional efforts to spur job growth. “The President signed the HIRE Act into law last month, providing a direct incentive for small businesses in particular to hire and invest. “The House approved, unfortunately with only a handful of Republican votes, the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act to assist small businesses and extend the very successful Build America Bonds (BABs) program, and provide a variety of other tools to help our state and local governments finance infrastructure improvements that create jobs. Finance experts have deemed the BABs program ‘one of the economic recovery efforts biggest successes.’ “Our next step is to look at the Green Jobs Economy. The Ways and Means Committee held a very useful full-day hearing on this subject last week and we are looking at further legislation. At the hearing representatives of General Electric and Dow spoke eloquently about the need for an active public partnership with the private sector to develop technologies shaping our economic future. They said this could not happen relying only on markets themselves. That also characterized progress made in the Recovery Act, through programs like the battery grants and the 48C tax credits for clean manufacturing. It is also the underlying premise of the R&D tax credit, at the heart of the so-called Extender bills that have passed both Houses. “These bills are being worked on right now, and with the Small Business Infrastructure Jobs bills, need to be passed and sent to the President before Memorial Day. Safeguards for Workers “Workers are at the heart of our efforts and I am still outraged at how Senate Republicans handled the temporary extension of unemployment benefits these last two months. “There is today twice the number of long-term unemployed compared to any other time on record before this recession. Unemployment benefits have traditionally been a strong bipartisan effort, yet some Republicans claimed their opposition was rooted in concern about the deficits after years creating them. They seem to have discovered fiscal responsibility when it comes to unemployed workers but not when it came to paying for tax cuts for the very wealthy. “We must extend unemployment and COBRA health insurance assistance through the end of the year so families will have a sense of security as they continue to look for work. “For those dislocated by trade, the Recovery Act dramatically expanded the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for workers program. “For the unemployed, The Recovery Act provided the beginning of long-needed reform with incentives for States to reform UI coverage so that it includes workers too often excluded in the past, especially low-wage and part-time workers. Twenty-eight States have already changed their laws to draw down part or all of the money for which they are eligible. “The Recovery Act also included an important improvement in the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program by providing funding to help States with rising welfare caseloads and to assist them in creating or expanding subsidized employment programs. Thirty-five States are now operating or planning to operate a jobs program using this funding. “For the disabled, Congress has provided increased funding in the past several years since Democrats regained the Majority to reduce the huge backlog in Social Security disability claims. Two-thirds of these claims are ultimately approved while people wait years – years where they are falling deeper and deeper into despair and even dying. “With these steps, we have put in place a much improved framework, overcoming years of neglect in order to equalize opportunity in this country. “Our tax policy is also an important tool to equalize opportunity. Taxes “The expired estate tax is four months into the year without resolution. This uncertainty is unacceptable and unfair. For instance, many wills are written to leave as much to the children as is below the estate tax threshold, with the rest going to the surviving spouse. Today that means the children may well be left with nothing. “Eight months from now the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts will expire after a decade that saw a major skewing of the income distribution to the most affluent. During the last economic expansion, from 2001 to 2007, the top one percent of Americans received two-thirds of the increase in national income while middle class incomes essentially stagnated. The divergence of income we have seen in the last decade means that we should keep the middle income tax cuts and let those for the very wealthiest expire. This course was set by Statutory PAYGO, which protects the middle class tax cuts but says that anything beyond that will have to be paid for. This represents a vital step for fiscal responsibility. “Once we replace present instability with a modicum of stability we can have the discussion about comprehensive reform of the tax code to make it simpler, fairer and more supportive of economic growth and job creation. Mr. Rangel put forth a comprehensive proposal on tax reform and the Committee will continue to take the lead in this area. “Finally, another area with a direct impact on jobs is trade. Trade “The Bush Administration took a hands-off approach to trade policy - wedded to the view that the more trade the better no matter its terms or contents. “We need to both expand trade and spread its benefits more broadly and ensure that American workers and American businesses are competing on a more level playing field. “President Obama has expressed the need for trade to be ‘reciprocal - that it is not just going to be a one-way street’, and his Administration has taken important steps to use our trade laws to stand up against unfair or unbalanced trade practices. “The Obama Administration inherited trade agreements with Korea, Columbia and Panama clearly containing important positives for expansion of international trade. But also with flaws that we made clear to Bush Administration negotiators needed to be addressed and now need to be fixed. “Last week we held a bi-partisan meeting of key House Members with the new USTR leadership working on the important WTO Doha negotiations. It was indeed a constructive session giving some hope that we can begin to revive a bi-partisan trade policy. We agreed, as has been expressed by a broad range of private sector interests, that there is a need to ‘correct imbalances’ in the present state of negotiations. It is appropriate that USTR do the negotiating but working far more closely with Congress than in previous years. “We will also work with the Administration as they begin negotiations in a Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement. There are opportunities in this important region for American businesses and workers as well as challenges for us to address, particularly with the inclusion for the first time of a non-market economy, Vietnam, in a regional trade negotiation. “We will also offer our support for the Administration’s G-20 initiative to address unsustainable global trade and financial imbalances – including by addressing other countries’ trade-distorting currency policies. China’s currency is clearly undervalued and is an important cause of our major trade deficits. I will be working with the Obama Administration over the next few months as it addresses, as it must, the currency issue in multilateral negotiations. “So many pending issues of 2010 fall under the jurisdiction of the Ways and Means Committee. Moving ahead responsibly and responsively, we have held hearings recently on China currency and energy and technology issues and we had a Committee markup of the most recent jobs bill. We will continue to follow this approach in the months ahead as we evaluate and act on critical issues. “Much is being reported now about the political outlook for November. Congressional Democrats know that repairing the damage of the combination of harmful Bush Administration policies in many key areas and its inaction in others and replacing them with sound policies require both persistence and patience and a vigorous dialogue with the American people.” “We know that responding to the dynamics of a ‘Perfect Storm’ means resistance as part of the price of progress. We have confidence that the path forward we are charting builds on the finest American traditions and will succeed.” (####)
04.19.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The Internal Revenue Service began mailing postcards to 132,082 Michigan small businesses today to alert them to a new tax credit available this year for small businesses that provide their employees with health insurance. The tax credit was part of the health care reform legislation signed into law last month. “Health care costs for small businesses have grown 129% since 2000, putting affordable care out of reach for so many Michigan small business owners and employees,” said Rep. Levin. “The tax credits will provide immediate relief for small businesses and provide a bridge until the exchanges open and begin offering small businesses an array of affordable health care choices.” Health care reform legislation provides $40 billion in tax credits for small businesses nationally to help them offer employee health insurance coverage. More than 60 percent of small employers, or more than four million firms, will be eligible for these credits. For 2010 to 2013, the maximum credit is 35 percent of a small business’s premium costs. On January 1, 2014, this rate increases to 50 percent. Firms can claim the credit for 2010 through 2013 and for any two years after that. To qualify for the tax credit, businesses must have fewer than 25 employees and average annual wages of $50,000 or less—and the full tax credit is available to businesses with 10 or fewer employees and average annual wages of $25,000 or less. In 2014, small businesses will be able to begin shopping on the Health Insurance Exchanges. These competitive marketplaces will allow small businesses and their employees, the self-employed, and the uninsured to purchase affordable coverage. Small businesses will be able to pool their buying power on the exchanges and have access to the same quality plans only available to large firms today. Additionally, shopping on the exchanges will reduce small business administrative costs. Click here to view the IRS postcard. Click here to view the Small Business Health Care Guide. The IRS has also provided more information about the credit, including a step-by-step guide and answers to frequently asked questions. (####)
04.15.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today approved H.R. 4851 the Continuing Extension Act of 2010 by a vote of 289-112. The legislation extends critical unemployment and health care benefits, ensures that Medicare beneficiaries can continue seeing their doctors and extends other programs which expired. H.R. 4851 will now be sent to President Obama for his signature into law. “As we speak, there are twice the number of long-term unemployed compared to any other time on record before this recession,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “Extending unemployment benefits has traditionally been a strong bipartisan effort, yet today some Republicans are claiming that their opposition is rooted in concern about the deficit. They seem to have discovered fiscal responsibility when it comes time to extend unemployment benefits but not when it came to paying for tax cuts for the rich and the Iraq war. These benefits are too important to American families to just say ‘no.’ “Holding hundreds of thousands of unemployed Americans hostage to score political points is reprehensible. I am glad we overcame this political gamesmanship to send this bill to President Obama for his signature.” Summary of the Continuing Extension Act of 2010 Unemployment Insurance: Extends unemployment benefits retroactively, including the increased payouts and longer duration of benefits from the Recovery Act, through June 2, 2010. Help with Health Insurance for Unemployed Workers (COBRA): Extends eligibility for the COBRA health insurance 65% subsidy for people who have lost their jobs through May 31, 2010 and provides transition relief for individuals who lost their jobs between March 31, 2010 and the date of enactment. Medicare Physician Payments: Extends current Medicare payment rates for physicians (preventing a 21% payment reduction) through May 31, 2010. Poverty Guidelines: Extends current provision maintaining 2009 poverty guidelines through May 31, 2010 (to prevent a lowering of the poverty line due to deflation in 2009). Flood Insurance: Extends the National Flood Insurance Program authorization through May 31, 2010. Satellite Television: Extends the compulsory copyright license used by satellite television providers through May 31, 2010. Small Business Loans: Extends two temporary improvements to the Small Business Administration’s loan guarantee program, raising the percentage of loan amounts that the SBA can guarantee and allowing SBA to waive or reduce loan fees through May 31, 2010. Compensation for Furloughed Employees: Provides compensation for federal employees furloughed during March 1st and 2nd as the result of the lapse in expenditure authority from the Highway Trust Fund. (####)
04.14.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following opening statement at today’s full Committee hearing on Energy Tax Incentives and the Green Job Economy: “The Ways and Means Committee is aggressively engaged in advancing legislation that will support business expansion and create new jobs here in the United States. “In the past two months, the Committee has advanced two separate bills that would encourage businesses to hire new employees, provide tax relief to small businesses so that they can grow and expand, and assist local communities, finance infrastructure improvements that support local community jobs. “Today, the Committee will examine ways that the federal government can help boost the Green Jobs Economy. “Consider all that is at stake: Cutting edge technologies of the future; manufacturing capacity to build these advanced technology products; lower energy costs for families and businesses; reducing our dependence on foreign oil; and preserving the environment for future generations. “The upside potential for our country is immense, but it will not happen automatically. “Unfortunately, while some progress has been made in recent years, our country, in this area, is playing catch up. We have lacked an energy policy for changing times and changing technologies. We have been behind the curve and we have been handicapped by those who feel it should be done only by the private sector. “The governments of other countries have not taken this view and they are racing ahead to dominate in this area. While we need a different partnership than those adopted by others – an American partnership - the wrong answer has been that there should be no partnership at all. “Take for example the electric vehicle. GM is going to bring the Volt to market on schedule, but initially the battery packs are being supplied by South Korea. Why? In part, this is because for years the South Korean government had a strategy to financially support this technology and the local industry. We are on the cusp of changing that because of private sector investment and accelerated public support for battery development. “A recent paper from the National Foreign Trade Council says: ‘Chinese planners have indicated their intention that eventually most or all of the renewable energy equipment installed in China will be made in China… This objective is advanced through a sweeping array of laws, regulations and other measures… China has emerged as a world leader in the manufacture of solar photovoltaic technology, and could become the world’s leading exporter of wind turbines.’ “Last year, the Recovery Act took important steps in boosting consumer demand and investing in advanced technologies. Through grants and tax incentives for businesses, individuals and communities we made the Green Jobs Economy a priority and our actions are having an impact. [Please click here to view an outline of renewable energy programs in the Recovery Act.] “The combination of the Recovery Act and the 2008 energy tax package provided long term extensions of our main incentives producing electricity from wind, solar and other renewable sources. We have made these incentives work better by providing a direct payment option. “The Energy Information Administration (EIA) estimated that the Recovery Act will result in twice as much electricity generated from wind than would have been produced without the policies included in the Recovery Act. Over the next six years, the EIA projected that residential tax credits for solar equipment will encourage more than 1.6 million solar units to be installed nationwide. “The EIA further predicts that home and business energy bills will be $13 billion lower in 2020 than they would have been if Congress did not pass the Recovery Act, which contained significant tax incentives for home and business energy conservation. “Tax credits for plug-in electric vehicles are expected to bring 90,000 vehicles to market in the year 2015 alone. The EIA estimates that these tax credits ‘will allow both battery and battery-system manufacturers to achieve earlier economies of scale through greater initial sales, thus allowing battery and system costs to decline more quickly than would have been the case without the tax credit.’“However, we cannot rest. It is important to identify ways that we can build on these efforts “In particular, although we are making strides in generating long-term demand for green technology, we have significant work to do to make certain this demand is satisfied with goods produced in the United States. “Today we will hear testimony that the ‘U.S. wind turbine manufacturing industry is not currently capable of supplying 100% of the wind power capacity’ that would be constructed with the support of these Recovery Act programs. “While jobs are created when we construct a solar facility, still more jobs are created when the components that are used in that facility are manufactured here in the United States. “If we are not aggressive about expanding our green manufacturing capacity, these manufacturing jobs will be created overseas and the United States will become more reliant on products that are produced outside of our borders. “The United States took a good first step towards supporting domestic manufacturing in the Recovery Act when we provided $2.3 billion of allocated investment tax credits for manufacturers that establish, re-equip and expand domestic manufacturing facilities to produce advanced energy equipment. “Demand in this area far exceeded its allocation. U.S. businesses put forward 3 times or over $8.1 billion of investment tax credits plans under this program. The Administration has proposed an additional $5 billion of these tax credits for a new round of competitive awards. “What is at stake is clear: good jobs, advanced technology, low energy costs, national security and a cleaner environment. What we need to make crystal clear is that the government is a full, active and effective partner in achieving that end. “I hope that we can proceed on a bipartisan basis to achieve these goals. There are a number of proposals for renewable energy incentives before the Committee that have bipartisan support, and I hope that we can translate that into bipartisan action because action is what we so clearly need today, and for the future.” (####)
04.09.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the announcement by Representative Bart Stupak that he will not seek re-election this fall. “Bart Stupak is an immensely valuable and well-respected Member of Congress. He combines strength of character, a human decency, a strong work ethic and a real commitment to Michigan and middle class families. He has always ardently reflected his deep roots in Michigan in general and the Upper Peninsula in particular. He is a close friend, I regret his decision and I will miss working with him in Congress. I extend my warmest regards to Bart and Lori on this difficult decision and I am confident after finishing this term in Congress that they will continue to find new ways to pursue their interests and passion for public service.” (####)
04.02.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement on employment data released today by the Department of Labor showing that 162,000 new jobs were created in March, the largest number of new jobs in three years: “Today’s numbers show that while we have made some progress, much more is needed to help continue creating new jobs for hardworking Americans. Last month President Obama signed legislation to give businesses tax incentives to hire new workers and expand successful financing tools that create jobs improving our cities and towns. The House built on this important law by passing additional legislation to make it easier for small businesses to grow and for local governments to raise capital to fund important projects and hire new workers. The Senate should now take up this small business and infrastructure package so we can get it to the President’s desk for his signature. The House will also soon begin discussions on additional measures to strengthen domestic energy production, particularly renewable energy, and create new green jobs. I look forward to leading this discussion in the Ways and Means Committee and working with my colleagues to continue our economic recovery. “As this discussion continues, we need speedy action to maintain help for American families dealing with the greatest amount of long-term unemployment in decades. This means ending the Republican hold in the Senate and moving forward with an extension for emergency unemployment compensation and COBRA health care assistance immediately when the Senate returns on April 12th.” (####)
03.30.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following remarks after attending the ceremony where President Barack Obama signed key health and education reforms into law: “Today, President Obama set in motion positive reforms that will strengthen health security and educational opportunities for hardworking American families. These twin pillars of economic growth will pave the way for millions of Americans to lead healthier, still more productive lives and strengthen our ability to compete and win internationally. “The landmark health reforms set forth under this law will put more money back in seniors’ pockets as we close the Medicare prescription drug donut hole faster, will limit the scope of the excise tax on high-cost health insurance plans to protect middle-class families, and will expand access to high-quality, affordable care to millions of additional families. This law truly strengthens the foundation of our workforce and our economy, and I am proud to have stood with the President today as we move forward toward a healthier, better educated nation.”Please click here to view a compilation of resources on Health Reform. (####)
03.25.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement tonight after Senate Republicans repeatedly blocked attempts to advance emergency legislation to extend critical unemployment and health care benefits, ensure Medicare beneficiaries reliable access to their doctors, and extend other programs set to expire at the end of the month: “Last time it was Senator Bunning who threw the curveball threatening the wellbeing of millions of American families, this time Senator Coburn is the one throwing curveballs, but the target is the same – hardworking families who rely on these critical benefits. Extending unemployment and other benefits to these families represents an emergency situation and should be expedited accordingly. “This emergency one-month extension passed the House unanimously and should move through the Senate with the same sense of urgency. I hope the Senate will step up to the plate tomorrow and that Senate Republicans will withdraw their objections to these emergency benefits for millions of families who desperately need them.” (####)
03.25.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following remarks after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to send critical legislation reforming and improving America’s health insurance system to President Obama’s desk to become law: “This critical reform effort moves our nation forward. As we look back on history, we are reminded that all such major reforms have been controversial – Social Security, Civil Rights, Medicare – and they have stood the test of time. So too will this health reform effort stand the test of time. There has been a noticeable shift recently, as Americans grow to understand the tremendous benefit this reform provides them. Familiarity is bringing support. Tonight, as we pass this bill, seniors understand they will be helped, children will be protected, and families will no longer fall victim to the whim of insurance companies. We move forward with a sense of pride, but also with a sense of responsibility to the needs of our constituents who, for generations, have asked their leaders in Washington for health insurance reform.” Please click here to view a compilation of resources on Health Reform. (####)
03.24.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following opening statement at today’s full committee hearing on China’s exchange rate policies: “It is with a sense of urgency that the Committee is holding this hearing in the hope that with the help of our witnesses, we can shed light on the problems associated with China’s foreign exchange rate policy and consider possible solutions. “What seems undisputed on this much disputed issue is that China has a persistent economic strategy, a policy, key to which is the pegging of its currency to the dollar at an undervalued rate. “Since the mid 1990s, China has clearly pursued an export-led growth strategy focused on addressing its needs – namely, creating jobs and accumulating vast foreign reserves. “Central to this export-led growth strategy is China’s policy of keeping its currency substantially undervalued. That policy keeps China’s exports cheap in the U.S. market, and makes imports into China substantially more expensive. “China has combined its cheap currency policy with other policies including, most notably, government directed investments in its manufacturing sector, which in turn creates pressure to keep its currency artificially low in order to get rid of excess production by exporting. “Chinese leaders have argued that these policies are necessary for China’s development for its massive needs to create jobs – although in recent years, more and more economists are questioning that proposition. “While China has had a clear economic policy, a clear strategy, the U.S. on the other hand has not. “Why not? “One reason is that like so many other trade issues, it gets caught up in the polarization that grips trade issues – “free trade” vs. “protectionism” — a grip that I have believed harmful and reject. An illustration of the futility of the polarization is China’s argument that any action by the U.S. against China’s policies of control would be “protectionism” or would lead to a “trade war.” “The easy polarization has helped handicap agreement on whether there is a problem. “Increasingly, economist of various bents and other observers reject this. “As Martin Wolf, the chief economics commentator for the Financial Times, has stated, “[T]he policy of keeping the exchange rate down is equivalent to an export subsidy and tariff, at a uniform rate.” “Last week, the New York Times Editorial Board, another somewhat conservative and cautious commentator on these economic issues, wrote that “China’s decision to base its economic growth on exporting deliberately undervalued goods is threatening economies around the world. It is fueling huge trade deficits in the United States and Europe. Even worse, it is crowding out exports from other developing countries, threatening their hopes of recovery.” “And these comments are echoed in our trade deficit with China, which for the past three years has been over $220 billion annually, and is a central driver in our overall trade deficit. “Some deny that it has serious consequences for America’s working families. But the alarm grows that it does- Paul Krugman estimates that China’s exchange rate reduces U.S. employment by 1.4 or 1.5 million jobs – at a time the U.S. faces a crisis of unemployment. “China’s currency policy and export-led growth policy are bad for the rest of the world as well, as a November 2009 Financial Times editorial concluded. “While some disagree with the impact of China’s policies, and others view the issue through a lens that says “hands off” is the answer to market disequilibrium, that it is best to let things resolve themselves, I think the status quo is not sustainable. “The U.S. - China relationship is a vital one for both countries. We are increasingly interdependent and there are vital foreign policy considerations in addition to economic ones, but the China currency issue itself will not go away. “There is no easy answer to the problem, as is true with other important problems, but the answer is not to deny there is a problem. “It has been difficult to make progress bi-laterally. At times talk has seemed to produce some progress, but that progress then disappears. “Some then suggested unilateral action addressing China’s currency manipulation under U.S. countervailing duty and antidumping trade remedy laws. Others have proposed the imposition of an additional duty on all imports from China. “In two weeks, the Obama Administration faces again, as past Administrations have an April 15th deadline, to decide whether to label China a currency manipulator in the Department of the Treasury’s semi-annual report. “The Report requirements may well increase discussions about the use of multilateral fora to address the currency issue. The IMF is the most logical place for these discussions; however, to date, the institution has been unable to act effectively. Thus, some have suggested using multilateral negotiations through the G-20 to address the currency problem. “Some have urged the United States bring a case in the WTO, but the WTO articles relating to currency have never been tested. “We are very fortunate to have with us today four experts on China’s exchange rate policy and they will discuss the extent of the problem and alternative responses to address the problem. “I now yield to ranking member Congressman Dave Camp for his opening statement.” (####)
03.24.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved $600 million to put 300,000 youths to work in their communities this summer. The Workforce Investment Act (WIA) Summer Youth Training Program received $2.1 billion in Recovery Act funding last year. “WIA youth programs are a great opportunity for young people to spend their summer developing new skills and pursuing interests that may otherwise be inaccessible,” said Rep. Levin. “Last summer I witnessed the impact of the training and exposure on students in Michigan. The funding creates an opportunity for these students and will surely pay dividends down the road.” Last summer Rep. Levin visited WIA Summer Youth Training Programs in Oakland and Macomb County. In Oakland, Rep. Levin chatted with students engaged in a variety of work activities at Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak. These activities ranged from physical therapy and nursing to central processing and inventory. The students previously participated in a long-standing student mentorship program between Beaumont and Oak Park High School and were paid to receive hands-on training in the health care field. In Macomb County, Rep. Levin visited students who took a week-long training session before being assigned to work on various environmental projects throughout the local school district. Both programs were administered by local Michigan Works! offices. The additional funding was part of H.R. 4899, the Disaster Relief and Summer Jobs Act, which also included an extension of Small Business Administration lending programs and resources to help areas recovering from natural disasters. The legislation passed by a vote of 239 to 175. The additional funding to extend WIA for another summer is completely offset and does not add to the national deficit. (####)
03.24.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today the House of Representatives approved H.R. 4849, the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act, by a vote of 246-178. The legislation would provide much-needed tax relief to small businesses, extend effective financing measures to create jobs and improve cities and towns, and extend the TANF Emergency Fund which is already on track to put over 160,000 Americans back to work. “This legislation is another important step this Democratic Congress is taking to strengthen the American economy, assist small businesses and create jobs,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The provisions in this bill not only extend the successful Build America Bonds program which provide a vital resource for State and local governments to invest in infrastructure projects and create more jobs, but they also assist small businesses by spurring investment and helping them grow. Job creation remains this Congress’ number one priority, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on additional measures that will help American workers and businesses get back on their feet.” The Ways and Means Committee marked up H.R. 4849 on March 17, 2010, where the bill was ordered favorably reported to the House by a vote of 25-15. During that markup a number of Committee Members remarked on the effectiveness of the Build America Bonds (BABs) program, deemed to be one of the economic recovery efforts biggest successes to create jobs and fund important projects in nearly every state in the nation. A detailed description of BABs including a State-by-State listing of BABs issuances through February 1, 2010 can be found here. The legislation also extends for one year the TANF Emergency Fund that 35 States are using or planning to use for a jobs program that subsidizes employers, including small businesses, who hire unemployed workers. This Fund is currently on track to put over 160,000 Americans back to work, and is needed so States and counties can continue their subsidized jobs programs and can continue to provide assistance to needy families. Without this much-needed extension the TANF Emergency Fund would have expired on September 30 and a number of States would have discontinued their job programs between April and June. Highlights of the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act include: • Extension of successful Build America Bonds • 100 percent exclusion of small business capital gains• Small business penalty relief• Increase in deduction for start-up expenditures• Extends the TANF Emergency Fund Please click here for a comprehensive listing of resources related to H.R. 4849, including bill text, technical descriptions and revenue estimates from the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT), as well as amendments offered during markup. (####)
03.23.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following remarks after attending the ceremony where H.R. 3590, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law by President Barack Obama: “Today, in the greatest of American traditions – opportunity and community – we enacted law that will improve the overall health of our citizens and the overall well-being of our nation. This legislation was the product of generations of hard work, driven by the personal stories of so many who have suffered from a lack of health insurance and the devastation of rising health care costs. “The enactment of this legislation is certainly a victory, but more work remains as the Senate considers critical legislation passed by the House to further strengthen our health care system. “Few, if any, issues before this Congress are as personal, or as critical to our nation’s future as health care reform. President Obama was right – leadership is not always tidy or easy, especially on complex issues - but this reform effort does help advance the dreams of all Americans and put our nation on a path toward greater prosperity and growth. I applaud President Obama for his leadership and will continue fighting to ensure the legislation currently before the U.S. Senate moves forward and becomes law.” Immediate benefits enacted under H.R. 3590:• Four million small businessmen and women will receive tax credits helping them cover the cost of health insurance for their employees • Tens of thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions will be able to purchase the coverage they need. • Insurance companies will no longer be able to drop people from coverage when they get sick. • Insurance companies can no longer place lifetime or annual limits on the amount of care people receiv on new plans. • All new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care. • Young adults will be able to stay on their parents’ policies until they are 26 years old. • Millions of seniors who fall into the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ will receive $250 to help pay for the medicine they need, reducing their out-of-pocket costs. Please click here to view a compilation of resources on Health Reform. (####)
03.23.2010	(Washington D.C.)- For many years, the process of Congressional funding requests - sometimes known as "earmarks" - lacked transparency and accountability. Since assuming the majority in 2007, Congressional Democrats have overhauled the process for requesting project-specific funding requests. For the last two years, every earmark approved by Congress included public disclosure of which Member(s) requested the money, which entity received the funds, what the funds were for, and how much money Congress approved. Members requesting earmarks must also certify that they have no financial interest in the project. Further, to increase transparency and accountability, members are also required to publicly disclose all their project-specific requests on their websites and there will be a one-stop shop online where the public can view all earmarks. After a Member requests an earmark, the appropriate Executive Branch agency has 20 days to review the project to ensure that the earmark is eligible to receive funds and meets goals established in law. This year, Congressional Democrats are excluding ell earmarks directed to for-profit entities, and requiring the Inspectors General to audit at least 5% of all earmarks directed to non-profit entities. I will continue to request federal funding for Oakland and Macomb County projects because there are real needs in these communities that the funding can address. These include a broad range of projects including law enforcement, sewer upgrades, roads, a new health clinic, worker training in emerging sectors and a business incubator project. I have actively supported all meaningful reforms and we did not offer requests that benefit only a private sector business even before this year’s reform effort that made that a House-wide policy. Below are all of the project-specific requests my office has submitted to the Appropriations Committee for Fiscal Year 2011. We will update this page to indicate which project receives funding later in 2010. AgricultureEmergency Food Access Integration Initiative, United Way for Southeastern Michigan, 660 Woodward Ave., Suite 300, Detroit, MI, 48226. Amount Requested: $1,000,000 Funding will allow the United Way to expand the number of client choice emergency food pantries in Southeast Michigan. The United Way will link pantry operators to the Michigan Agricultural Surplus System (MASS) and local providers of donated commodities including Forgotten Harvest and Gleaners Community Food Bank. United Way will complete the link from producer to distributor and then to individuals and families by directing people to food pantries and food banks through outreach and its 211 call-in program. The goal is an integrated emergency food distribution system that will get more food into the hands of Southeast Michigan residents in need. Commerce, Justice, Science40th District Court Security Personnel, 40th District Court of the City of St. Clair Shores, 27701 Jefferson Avenue, St. Clair Shores, Michigan, 48081 Amount Requested: $70,000 Funding will assist the City of St. Clair Shores in obtaining security personnel for the 40th District Court. The courthouse is a 9,000 square foot building, including two holding cells, that sees approximately 30,000 cases per year. This funding will increase security presence, improving the safety and security of all persons using the facility. Law Enforcement and Court Paperless Technology Program, Macomb County Prosecutor’s Office, One South Main Street, Mt. Clemens, Michigan, 48043 Amount Requested: $500,000 Funds will support the effort of the Macomb County Prosecutor’s Office to transition to an entirely paperless system, bringing efficiencies to police, prosecutors, and the courts throughout Macomb County. Prosecutors will be able to process warrant requests and 911 calls, transfer visual evidence, and disseminate photo, video, and interview evidence. This program will also allow police agencies to send more reports, streamline the electronic redacting process for discovery, and accelerate the movement of cases through the court process. The long-term savings provided to tax payers will be significant: there will be nearly a complete reduction in paper costs; reduced police overtime costs for warrant request delivery and appearances at adjourned court hearings; elimination of repeat mileage and appearance vouchers for victims and jurors at adjournments; and the elimination of the vast warehousing necessary to maintain paper files. Law Enforcement Technology Upgrades, City of Warren Police Department, 29900 Civic Center Boulevard, Warren, Michigan, 48093 Amount Requested: $200,000 Funding will upgrade the external and internal security system at the City of Warren’s police headquarters building. Upgrades to digital security cameras and to supporting hardware and software and replacements of locks and associated security devices will significantly improve the building’s security, as well as the safety of all personnel working inside. Oakland County’s Courts and Law Enforcement Management System, Oakland County, 1200 N. Telegraph Road, Building 49 West, Pontiac, Michigan, 48341 Amount Requested: $700,000 Funding will improve the integration and interoperability of biometric, dispatch, records management and other public safety services for CLEMIS, a consortium of more than 100 law enforcement agencies in Southeast Michigan. Upgrades will be made to the records management system database and the mugshot system, and a new booking module will be created. This enhancement project will provide a broader range of services for police officers, including mobile access to an expanded suite of investigative tools while on patrol, and improve the reliability and performance of existing technology. Technology Upgrades for Law Enforcement, City of Oak Park, 13600 Oak Park Boulevard, Oak Park, Michigan, 48237 Amount Requested: $360,000 Funding will implement a computer-aided police and fire dispatch system within the Oak Park Department of Public Safety and support monitored video security and smoke alarm networks in the civic center complex. Residents in the City of Oak Park will benefit from enhanced police and fire emergency response capability and improved security at civic center buildings. Department of Homeland Security Oakland County Emergency Operations Center, Oakland County Homeland Security Division, 1200 N. Telegraph Road, Building 47 West, Pontiac, Michigan 48341 Amount Requested: $1,000,000 Funding will be used to design, construct, and renovate a new functional emergency operations center (EOC) for Oakland County. This project will double the size of the existing EOC to house sixty emergency responders, as well as responders from local, state, and federal government agencies, and will provide interoperable communications and state of the art technology. This will improve Oakland County’s homeland security, emergency management, and preparedness capabilities and the emergency services provided to the County’s sixty-one communities and 1.2 million residents. DefenseDiminishing Manufacturing Sources and Material Shortages (DMSMS) Case Resolution Program, Automation Alley, 2675 Bellingham, Troy, MI 48083 Amount requested: $5 millionDMSMS is a creative response to a longstanding problem of obtaining hard-to-find parts for our military vehicles, especially electronic components for the older vehicles. With the significant reductions in the number of manufacturers nationwide, there is a shortage of suppliers for Army replacement parts and systems. These shortages directly impact the ability of the Army to sustain more than 3500 weapons systems through all phases of the life cycle. Many of these systems are 30 or more years old, yet require parts and materials for repairs. As the systems age, needed parts and assemblies are often no longer being manufactured. The DMSMS Case Resolution Program provides an efficient connection with companies willing and able to re-engineer, test, evaluate, and manufacture components and reduce costs to TACOM. Enhanced Visual Fidelity Simulation, Tank Automotive Research, Development and Design Center (TARDEC), 6501 E. Eleven Mile Road, Warren, MI 48397-5000 Amount requested: $2.5 million TARDEC provides modeling, analysis and testing services to a variety of DoD organizations and contractors involved in vehicle system development, production and support. This request would improve TARDEC’s existing motion-based simulators that seek to accurately reproduce motions experienced in vehicle proving ground tests or field operations. Specifically, it would add data sensors and new/upgraded software and a combat vehicle cab with a re-configurable menu-driven crew station to TARDEC’s existing simulators that would be able to better model battlefield scenarios and improve how the simulators interface with soldiers so it better measures soldiers’ performance. The upgrade would include cognitive measuring equipment to include bio-sensing and eye tracking at multiple soldier locations. The benefits of the project include improved data that results from more realistic simulations; cognitive engineered crew stations that match soldier capabilities in non-linear battlefield conditions; and crew stations that meet full spectrum operations. Flammability, Smoke, Toxicity (FST) Standards for Military Ground Vehicles to Improve Health for the Troops, Lawrence Technological University; 21000 W. Ten Mile Road, Southfield, MI 48075 Amount requested: $4.8 million Lawrence Technological University’s Center for Innovative Materials (CIMR) will work with the U.S. Army Tank Automotive Research Development and Engineering Center (TARDEC) and the Army Research Laboratory to provide assessment, testing and evaluation of materials, vehicle components, vehicle sections, and entire vehicles to determine acceptable flammability, smoke and toxicity (FST) standards aimed at improving health and safety in Army vehicles and increasing survivability for troops. The Army does not currently have a FST standard for military ground vehicles. The development of such a standard will be essential to lower the risk in the integration and application of any new material to enhance combat survivability and performance. CIMR has the testing facilities and capabilities to conduct the necessary FST tests and help the Army develop the standards. Testing will be performed under different environmental conditions as certain conditions may exacerbate problems in the FST arena. Mobile Laser Deposition Work Cell, Focus: HOPE, 1400 Oakman Boulevard, Detroit, MI 48238 Amount requested: $3 million This project will develop a portable system that could be shipped to remote locations capable of performing metal deposition or welding on parts in the field. The system would consist of two modules: the Mobile Laser Deposition Module and the Mobile Remote Machining Module. The project will give the Navy a greater ability to quickly and effectively repair expensive assets that they would otherwise have to replace or repair in a less optimum way. Readiness, Reintegration and Support Program (RRSP) for Reserve and National Guard Personnel, Judson Center, 4410 W. Thirteen Mile Road, Royal Oak, MI 48073 Amount requested: $800,000. This request seeks funding to meet the growing needs of military personnel and their families, particularly in the National Guard and Military Reserves, to provide support pre- and post-deployment. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have resulted in higher deployment rates for Guard and Reserve service members than any other conflict in history. Despite the increased reliance and additional strain on Guard and Reserve service members, resources to provide support pre- and post-deployment continue to be inadequate. The Judson Center is a non-profit human service agency based in Royal Oak. The funding would be used by the Judson Center to help address the social and psychological challenges facing military personnel and their families, especially to address mental health concerns of depression, substance abuse and post traumatic stress. Energy and WaterClinton River Spillway Restoration; Macomb County Public Works Office, 21777 Dunham Road, Clinton Township, MI 48036 Amount requested: $300,000 The Clinton River Spillway was constructed 58 years ago by the Corps of Engineers to relieve chronic flooding in Clinton Township. Sedimentation in the Clinton River just beyond the Spillway is a serious concern. The funding will be used for an assessment of the potential for improving the operation and function of the Spillway to reduce sedimentation and support removal of beneficial use impairments in the Clinton River Area of Concern. George W. Kuhn Retention and Treatment Basin; Oakland County Water Resources Commissioner, One Public Works Blvd., Bldg. 95 West, Waterford, MI 48238 Amount requested: $1 million The funding would be used by Oakland County to detect and eliminate improper sanitary sewer connections to the storm water collection system that cause pollution in the Clinton River and its watershed. This initiative will reduce E-coli pollution in the Clinton River, its tributaries, and Lake St. Clair. Greening of Warren Police Department Headquarters, City of Warren, One City Square, Suite 215, Warren, MI 48093 Amount requested: $1 million The funding will be used by the City of Warren to implement green technologies and energy efficiency upgrades at the Warren Police Department, including the installation of a green roof, installation of interior and exterior lighting, and upgrades to the heating and cooling system. Implementing the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair Comprehensive Management Plan, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 477 Michigan Avenue, Detroit, MI 48226 Amount requested: $600,000. The funding will be used to implement priority restoration projects that are consistent with the St. Clair River/Lake St. Clair Management Plan, which the Corps of Engineers completed in 2005. Oakland University Clean Energy Research Center, Oakland University, 2200 North Squirrel Road, Rochester, MI 48309 Amount requested: $1,000,000 This will expand Oakland University’s clean energy research efforts. The Clean Energy Research Center is a demonstration, feasibility and education outreach project that focuses on clean forms of power and heat generation including biomass, biofuels, wind, solar-thermal and photovoltaic, geothermal heating/cooling, combined heat and power, and energy conservation systems in residential and industrial applications, and the outreach and education of such systems to K-12 and higher education, and to the general public to increase energy efficiency. Funding will be used to purchase and install industrial-sized wind turbines, a biomass boiler, photovoltaic and solar-thermal applications, in addition to laboratory materials essential to undergraduate and graduate college education in alternative energy and continuing education for K-12 teachers. United Way Energy Efficient Building Project, United Way for Southeastern Michigan, 660 Woodward Avenue, Suite 300, Detroit, MI 48226 Amount requested: $260,000 The funding will be used by United Way of Southeastern Michigan to assist community non-profits to make energy efficiency and insulation upgrades at their facilities. The organizations are Turning Point of Mount Clemens, MI, a domestic violence shelter, as well as two Presbyterian Villages sites. Financial ServicesMacomb-OU INCubator, Macomb County Department of Planning and Economic Development, 1 South Main, 7th Floor, Mt. Clemens, MI 48043.Amount Requested: $413,000The Macomb-Oakland University INCubator facility in Sterling Heights was established to assist current business grow and diversify. The INCubator also works with entrepreneurs who are starting new businesses particularly defense and homeland security which have been identified by Macomb County and the State of Michigan as viable and emerging growth sectors. This year’s funding request would be used to support information technology upgrades and implement a planning and feasibility study related to creating a Defense Robotics Cluster within Macomb County. Macomb County Business Assistance Center, Wayne State University, 5057 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, MI 48202.Amount Requested: $437,500 The Wayne State University School of Business Administration is working to support the economic transformation of Macomb County. The Macomb County Business Assistance Center utilizes MBA students, working with Wayne State faculty and a network of alumni and other volunteers, to assist small family-owned business, mid-sized manufacturers, start-ups, and non-profit organizations in areas such as marketing research, business strategy, review and development of business plans, marketing plans, financial projections, information technology assessment, and human resource development programs. The Center provides a stipend to the MBA students, allowing the SBAC to provide services free of charge. The requested funding would be used to would be used to support the center’s operations and allow it to expand the number of businesses served. Interior/EPA Clinton River Watershed Woody Debris and Obstruction Removal Project; Macomb County Public Works Office, 21777 Dunham Road, Clinton Township, MI 48036 Amount requested: $275,000 The funding for this project would be used to manage larger debris in the Clinton River that has a negative impact on habitat. Excess large woody debris in the Clinton River can redirect flow and cause the undercutting of streambanks and impede recreational use of the waterways. Illicit Discharge Elimination Program Facility Dye Testing; Macomb County Public Health Department, 43525 Elizabeth, Mt. Clemens, MI 48043 Amount requested: $137,500 This project will target areas of the Clinton River Watershed in Macomb County with the goal of using dye testing in buildings to locate illicit sewer connections to the storm drain. The funding will help detect and eliminate improper connections and reduce pollution in Lake St. Clair and its watershed. Oakland/Macomb Interceptor, Oakland County Water Resources Commissioner, One Public Works Blvd., Bldg. 95 West, Waterford, MI 48238 Amount requested: $1 million The funding will be used to assist Oakland and Macomb Counties to repair and rehabilitate the Oakland/Macomb Interceptor. The Interceptor is a large, 21.4 mile sewer that is the sole conduit that transports sanitary sewage from over 300,000 residents of Oakland and Macomb Counties to the City of Detroit for treatment. The Interceptor is 40 years old and is in need of extensive and costly repairs. Labor/HHS/EducationAutomation Alley Information Technology Career Pathways Project, Automation Alley, 2675 Bellingham, Troy, Michigan, 48083 Amount Requested: $428,000 Funding will train workers for employment in healthcare technology. The program will provide 200 dislocated workers and at-risk students with training in information technology and connect participants to current job needs. Community Connect: Electronic Healthcare Record and Centralized Information System, Oakland County Community Mental Health Authority, 2011 Executive Hills Blvd. Auburn Hills, MI 48326 Amount Requested: $500,000. Funding will be used to expand the Oakland County Community Mental Health Authority’s existing electronic medical record system to 186 group home sites. The Authority has already implemented health IT at various clinics and offices and via hand-held devices used by home-visit case workers. This funding would enable it to expand the system to the group homes, which serve about 1,500 severely mentally-ill and developmentally disabled people. Computerized Provider Order Entry, Mt. Clemens Hospital, 1000 Harrington Blvd Mount Clemens MI 48043 Amount Requested: $750,000 Funding will be used to implement Computerized Provider Order Entry (CPOE) as part of the hospital’s electronic medical record. Computerized Provider Order Entry enables physicians and other providers to electronically enter instructions for the treatment of patients. These orders are communicated over a computer network to other medical staff (nurses, therapists, pharmacists, or other physicians) or to the departments (pharmacy, laboratory or radiology) responsible for fulfilling the order. In comparison to paper orders, CPOE can speed the transmission of the orders, provide for tracking of instructions in a centralized location, and minimize errors associated with misinterpreted handwriting. CPOE is an important component to a high-performing electronic medical record system. Computerized Provider Order Entry, St. John’s Providence Hospital, 28000 Dequindre Warren, MI 48092 Amount Requested: $400,000 Funding will be used to implement Computerized Provider Order Entry (CPOE) as part of the hospital’s electronic medical record. CPOE enables physicians and other providers to electronically enter instructions for the treatment of patients. These orders are communicated over a computer network to other medical staff (nurses, therapists, pharmacists, or other physicians) or to the departments (pharmacy, laboratory or radiology) responsible for fulfilling the order. In comparison to paper orders, CPOE can speed the transmission of the orders, provide for tracking of instructions in a centralized location, and minimize errors associated with misinterpreted handwriting. CPOE is an important component to a high-performing electronic medical record system. Cancer Survivorship Network, Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute, 4100 John R, Mail Code PRO5GR Detroit, MI 48201 Amount Requested: $3.1 million Funding will be used to establish and coordinate services for cancer survivors. The services will be available to all Karmanos patients, and will include support groups, counseling, referrals to supportive resources, , and some financial and transportation assistance for those who qualify. Part of the funding will also be used for research to determine the most effective and valued services for cancer survivors. Diabetes Care and Support Program, Henry Ford Health System, 1 Ford Place, Detroit, Michigan, 48202 Amount Requested: $200,000 Funding will be used to provide coordinated diabetes care management services, with a focus on assisting high-risk, uninsured patients. Patients will be offered a diabetes care management plan with case management services, to include telephone and email contact. The goal of the project is to support the patients and encourage self-care and nutrition that will stabilize glucose levels and bring them within normal ranges. The project will leverage the Henry Ford Health System’s electronic medical record and patient website capabilities to identify patients with diabetes who are most appropriate for the planned interventions. Employment Services for Older Workers, Jewish Vocational Services, 29699 Southfield Road, Southfield, Michigan, 48076 Amount Requested: $200,000 Funding would provide employment services to dislocated workers over the age of 50. This expands a workforce program for older workers that JVS currently administers and will allow the agency to provide regular, consistent services. JVS will partner with Michigan Works to administer the program. Green Jobs Education, Training, and Placement for Displaced Workers, Lawrence Technological University, 2100 West Ten Mile Road, Southfield, Michigan, 48075 Amount Requested: $2,500,000 Funding will prepare students and dislocated workers for careers in green jobs. The program will utilize partnerships with workforce development agencies and businesses to identify job needs and design certificate programs specific to current demand. Iraqi Refugee Resettlement and Employment Initiative, Chaldean Community Federation, 29850 Northwestern Highway, Suite 250, Southfield, Michigan, 48034 Amount Requested: $400,000 Funding will support training and employment programs for Iraqis who have been resettled in Michigan by the U.S. Department of State. Using partnerships with Wayne State University and the Chaldean Chamber of Commerce, the Federation will identify job needs; help legal refugees access training programs, social services, and transportation; and administer English-as-a-second-language courses and career-preparatory seminars to assist legal refugees transition to life in the United States. Nonprofit Support for Families in Need, Wayne State School of Social Work, 4756 Cass Avenue Detroit, MI 48201 Amount Requested: $600,000. Funding will provide capacity-building and technical assistance to Macomb and Oakland County social service agencies. The medical and behavioral health literature provides numerous examples of research-tested social work practices that can save lives, improve mental health and help families and communities. This project will build capacity among staff at social service agencies by providing training in the use of cutting-edge best practices in child welfare, violence prevention, substance abuse and mental health interventions and to track outputs and outcomes on clients served. WSU School of Social Work will manage the project through the Macomb Education Center. The project will also fund placement of liaisons at the organizations to provide ongoing support in adopting and implementing the best practices. Oak Park Career Exposure, Oak Park Business and Education Alliance, 25900 Greenfield Road, Oak Park, Michigan, 48237 Amount Requested: $250,000 Funding will provide mentoring, internships, and job skills instruction to students in the Oak Park School district, exposing students to careers and opportunities they would not experience in the classroom environment. A career mentoring program matches mentors from corporate partners with high school students and a student mentoring program matches alumni of the career mentoring program with younger students. The program also provides internships at William Beaumont Hospital and with the City of Oak Park. Support for Newly Arrived Refugees and Immigrants, Kurdish Human Rights Watch, 28091 Dequindre Rd. Suite 105A Madison Heights, MI 48071 Amount Requested: $500,000 Funding will be used to provide social services and language classes to Iraqi, Afghan, Iranian, Somali legal refugees and special immigrants. The program would serve newly arrived legal immigrants in Warren, Sterling Heights, Madison Heights, Royal Oak, Southfield and other cities in the 12th district and help them make an effective integration and adjustment to the U.S.. Transportation/HUDDetroit Zoo Wildlife Conservation Center, Detroit Zoological Society, 8450 W. Ten Mile Road, Royal Oak, Michigan, 48067 Amount Requested: $1,000,000 Funding will support the design and construction of a polar wildlife conservation center at the Detroit Zoo. The project is expected to create more than 100 design, engineering, and construction jobs over the course of three years. Once completed, the polar wildlife center, which will be the largest of its kind in the world, is expected to generate more than $3 million in sustained annual economic impact in the Metropolitan Detroit area. It will also provide the public and students with an engaging learning experience. Forgotten Harvest Facility Capacity-Building Completion, Forgotten Harvest, 21800 Greenfield Road, Oak Park, Michigan, 48237 Amount Requested: $542,000 Funding will complete the capacity expansion of Forgotten Harvest’s facility in Oak Park. This will enable Forgotten Harvest to rescue and distribute 36 million pounds of food annually and optimize the use of the community kitchen for meal assembly and a pilot program in food services job training. Forgotten Harvest rescues surplus food and distributes it free-of-charge to over 155 agencies in Oakland, Macomb, and Wayne Counties. Gratiot Avenue Alternatives Analysis, Southeast Michigan Council of Governments (SEMCOG), 535 Griswold Street, Suite 300, Detroit, Michigan, 48226 Amount Requested: $2,800,000 Funding will conduct alternatives analysis along Gratiot Avenue from Woodward Avenue to M-59. Alternatives analysis includes preliminary analysis, design, and engineering for transit on this corridor. Rapid transit service along Gratiot Avenue will promote commercial and residential development and connect riders with universities, medical facilities, shopping, and sports venues. It will also improve air quality and reduce automotive congestion. Gratiot Avenue Trail in Clinton Township, Macomb County Road Commission, 1 South Main, 7th Floor, New Administration Building, Clinton Township, Michigan, 48036 Amount Requested: $1,300,000 Funding will extend the non-motorized Gratiot trail from downtown Mount Clemens to Clinton Township. It will improve access to the City of Mount Clemens and to the County-wide trail. The trail extension will also link to the SMART’s bus service on Gratiot, replacing the muddy worn paths with a safe, ten-foot wide asphalt surface. This project will benefit transit users and attract visitors to downtown Mount Clemens, contributing to the local economy. HOPE Center in Macomb, Warren Woods Community Connections, 14300 E. 13 Mile Road, Warren, Michigan, 48088 Amount Requested: $1.5 million Funding will be used to acquire and renovate a client-choice food pantry and establish a permanent service center that provides one-stop shopping for food services and other non-profit human service organizations. The H.O.P.E. (Housing, Opportunities, and Provisions for Everyone) Center in Macomb will make it easier for impoverished, unemployed, and underemployed Macomb County residents to access support services. Improvements to Senior Citizen Housing, City of Warren, 26600 Burg, Warren, Michigan, 48089 Amount Requested: $920,500 Funding will support safety and facility upgrades to senior housing in Warren. The facilities contain 364 housing units for low-income senior citizens. Funding uses include: replacing fire alarm panels and sensors, purchasing security cameras for the parking lots, replacing 244 furnaces, installing exterior railings and interior handrails, installing handicap-accessible entry doors, and replacing the roofs of two buildings. Such upgrades will improve the quality of life for residents in these housing units. Lahser Road Adaptive Signal Upgrades, Road Commission for Oakland County, 31001 Lahser Road, Beverly Hills, Michigan, 48025 Amount Requested: $1,100,000 Funding will upgrade eight (8) traffic signals on Lahser Road, from 8 Mile Road to 12 Mile Road, in the City of Southfield. The new signals will be adaptive, allowing the Road Commission to optimize the use of the existing road system, reduce congestion, balance peak traffic flows, adjust for traffic backups and accidents, and improve safety. Oak Park Civic Center Project, City of Oak Park, 13600 Oak Park Boulevard, Oak Park, Michigan, 48237 Amount Requested: $2,500,000 Funding will help finance the construction of two new energy-efficient civic-center buildings in Oak Park, one which will house City Hall and administrative offices and one which will house municipal services. The existing city offices face energy losses, leaking roofs, failing plumbing, and ADA compliance issues. The new facilities will centralize services for Oak Park residents and businesses, making it more convenient to access programs and conduct municipal business. M-59 Alternatives Analysis, Southeast Michigan Council of Governments (SEMCOG), 535 Griswold Street, Suite 300, Detroit, Michigan, 48226 Amount Requested: $2,800,000 Funding will conduct alternatives analysis along M-59 from Woodward Avenue to Gratiot Avenue. Alternatives analysis includes preliminary analysis, design, and engineering for transit on this corridor. Rapid transit service along M-59 will promote commercial and residential development and connect riders with universities, medical facilities, shopping, and sports venues. It will also improve air quality and reduce automotive congestion. Resurfacing of Coolidge Highway, City of Huntington Woods, 26815 Scotia Road, Huntington Woods, Michigan, 48070 Amount Requested: $972,500 Funding will repair Coolidge Highway from I0 Mile to 11 Mile in Huntington Woods. The existing asphalt overlay in the two northbound lanes and center turn lane will be removed and replaced with new asphalt pavement and improvements would be made to curbs, gutters, and draining structures. The road in its current state requires frequent repairs at significant cost to the taxpayer. A resurfaced roadway will benefit local businesses and ease travel for area residents. SMART Hybrid-Electric Paratransit Vehicles, Suburban Mobility Authority for Regional Transportation (SMART), 535 Griswold Street, Suite 600, Detroit, Michigan, 48226 Amount Requested: $3 million Funding will allow SMART to purchase 20 hybrid-electric paratransit vehicles. Such vehicles provide curb-to-curb service for seniors and persons with disabilities. Most of the new buses will replace aging diesel-powered vehicles, which will increase fuel economy by 40 percent and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent. Woodward Corridor Extension Alternatives Analysis, Southeast Michigan Council of Governments (SEMCOG), 535 Griswold Street, Suite 300, Detroit, Michigan, 48226 Amount Requested: $2,800,000 Funding will conduct alternatives analysis along Woodward Avenue from West Grand Boulevard to M-59. Alternatives analysis includes preliminary analysis, design, and engineering for transit on this corridor. Rapid transit service along Woodward will extend the light rail system currently under development from Jefferson Avenue to West Grand Boulevard, promote commercial and residential development, and connect riders with universities, medical facilities, shopping, and sports venues. It will also improve air quality and reduce automotive congestion. (####)
03.21.2010	(Washington D.C.)- For the first time in America’s history, all Americans will have access to quality, affordable health care under a final package of health insurance reforms passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today. The legislation will protect Americans from the worst insurance industry practices, offer the uninsured and small businesses the opportunity to obtain affordable health care plans, cover 32 million uninsured Americans all while reducing the deficit by $143 billion over the next decade and more than a trillion dollars over 20 years. The House approved the measure by a vote of 220 to 211. The health insurance reform package combines the best ideas from all sides of the debate, capping a year-long transparent legislative effort. It delivers on President Obama’s key goals for health reform of slowing the growth of health costs, creating competition in the health insurance marketplace, and keeping insurers honest. It will protect people’s choices of doctors and health plans, and guarantee that every American can access quality, stable, and affordable health insurance coverage. It will rein-in the worst insurance company abuses, such as discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, policy rescissions when patients are in the middle of treatment, or insurance rate hikes without justification. Many of these protections kick in immediately; see a complete list here. “We come to this floor for thousands of votes each year, but no single vote comes with so many personal stories,” said Sander M. Levin (D-MI), the chair of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Within our families and our districts, people have spoken out about the need for real health insurance reform that gives every American access to quality, affordable care. Republicans have turned their backs on the problem, claiming our nation would somehow be better off without reform – this is not the case. Today, in the tradition of America, we will pass health care reform and we will make our beloved country a still better nation.” “History has been made today. We promised health reform and we have delivered it,” said U.S. Rep. George Miller (D-CA), the chair of the House Education and Labor Committee. “Approval of this legislation marks a major moment in America’s march toward greater equality and opportunity – a journey that has been interrupted and delayed far too many times in my lifetime. This bill will create millions of jobs, reduce the federal budget deficit, and finally hold accountable the insurance companies that have caused so much panic and pain in the lives of hard-working Americans.” “Today is a historic day. Over a century in the making, Congress has at last passed comprehensive legislation to provide access to quality, affordable health care for all Americans. It will make a profound difference for our children, our families, and for generations to come,” said U.S. Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), the chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “This will prove to be an enduring change for the better for our society and quality of life. Health security is a fundamental right for every American and we will remain faithful to the commitments we have made today.” “After generations of debate, we have successfully addressed one of the greatest moral and economic problems of the day. What we have done tonight will protect health care, as well as jobs and our entire economy for generations of Americans,” said U.S. Rep. John D. Dingell (D-MI), the chair emeritus of the Energy and Commerce Committee and lead sponsor of H.R. 3962. “Thirty-two million Americans will get coverage that don’t have it. Millions more in danger of losing their coverage can sleep easier tonight knowing their coverage will be there. Almost all Americans can look forward to seeing their premiums go down. The youngest Americans, and the children born in the years to come, will not have to live with the fear that so many Americans have had to live within the past. I am proud of the courage displayed by our colleagues today. This is a great day for all of us, and I believe that someday all Americans will share that view.” “Forty-five years ago, President Johnson signed Medicare into law and guaranteed health care to every American 65 and over. Today we have extended that guarantee to all Americans,” said U.S. Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA), the chair of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee. “Today's historic victory will transform our flawed health care system into something that works for Americans of all walks of life," said U.S. Rep. Rob Andrews (D-NJ), the chair of the Education and Labor Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions. “By providing families and businesses with more choices and increased competition, the insurance industry will finally be held accountable to continue providing top-quality care while keeping premiums down. Most importantly, this bill puts a plan into place that decreases our deficit while ensuring coverage for 94 percent of all Americans so that millions will no longer feel powerless when in need of care.” “The history of failed attempts at health care reform reaches back decades. But more important than the historical achievement is what the reformed system will do for everyday Americans,” said U.S. Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) the chair of Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. “We aren't just making history, we are making a better health care system.” For more information on the health insurance reform legislation passed today, click here. (####)
03.18.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, leaders of the Committees with jurisdiction over health policy, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), and Education and Labor Committee Chairman George Miller (D-CA), issued the following joint statement upon introduction of comprehensive health reform legislation: “In the coming days, the House will take an up or down vote to improve the lives of tens of millions of American families and small businesses owners. The important reforms in this bill will end the worst insurance industry practices of denying care because of preexisting conditions, cutting off treatments due to annual or lifetime limits, or increasing premiums to pad the insurance companies’ bottom lines. Health reform will improve the fiscal health of our nation, reducing our deficit by $130 billion in the first ten years and more than $1 trillion over the second decade. “Our legislation will make critical improvements to the Senate bill - protecting the working class from the tax on high-value (Cadillac) health insurance plans, increasing affordability for lower and middle income individuals and families, ending the Nebraska carve-out to ensure equitable treatment for all states under Medicaid, increasing payments to primary care services for Medicaid to ensure patients’ access to doctors, and holding all insurance companies responsible for following these new rules. This reform effort will also save taxpayer money in premiums and cost-sharing, while also strengthening Medicare and extending its solvency. “Congress now has a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to fix two broken systems – health insurance and student loans – that are bankrupting America’s families. This health reform vote has been more than 70 years in the making, spanning generations of families, political leaders, and advocates who have fought to make the dream of having and keeping quality, affordable health insurance a reality This is a moment of truth for historic reform of the most compelling importance for all the American people. With this legislation, we rise to meet it and ensure quality affordable health insurance, at long last, for all American families.” Please click here to view text of the Health Reform Legislation. (####)
03.17.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI), delivered the following statement today at a Ways and Means markup of H.R. 4849, the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Act of 2010: “In calling this mark-up, I expressed several aims. One is that our Committee exercise its responsibility to be in the forefront of efforts to strengthen the economic security for hardworking families -- their Number one desire -- to have a job. The House approved the HIRE Act earlier this month and the Senate is set to vote today, one step to respond to that vital need. ”Each one of us knows the acute pain this recession brought to communities at home with the loss of jobs, health care and homes brought on by the financial crisis and economic downturn. “Since the beginning of the recession in December, 2007 – 8.4 Million Jobs have been lost -- a historic high since the Great Depression, “In the 1st quarter of 2008 the average monthly loss was: 31,000; the 2nd quarter 191,000 jobs; the 3rd quarter 334,000 jobs; the 4th quarter 653,000 jobs “As the new Administration was taking over in 2009, the average monthly loss in the first quarter was the astronomical number of 753,000 jobs. “This Administration and the Congress responded, and the number of jobs lost began to drop from 477,000 in the 2nd quarter of 2009, to 261,000 in the 3rd quarter, and 90,000 in the 4th. “In January of this year the improved over-all growth rate was reflected in the economy losing 26,000. And, in February, a loss of 36,000 jobs “Clearly, much work remains to be done to jumpstart job creation. “The Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act is a step by this Committee to address that critical, indeed, over-arching need. In doing so, the contents of this Bill should engender support for a second hope I had in calling this Mark-up. This bill deserves bi-partisan support, not partisan attacks. “What it does warrants that support. It will help to achieve what must be a Number one goal of this Committee and the Congress -- to support the private sector to create jobs. “It contains assistance to Small Business -- which must create a major portion of the huge number of new jobs -- many millions of them. It reflects the rigorous test--the standard -- for inclusion of provisions in this bill -- job creation. “The cornerstone of this package is an extension of the Build America Bonds, which have been an effective tool in job creation and a vital resource for State and local governments looking to advance infrastructure programs. “When the recession hit, local governments faced unprecedented challenges in accessing credit. Build America Bonds helped fill this demand with the option of accessing the corporate taxable bond market. Finance experts have deemed BABs ‘one of the economic recovery efforts biggest successes.’ “As of March 1, 2010, State and local governments have used BABs to finance more than $78 billion in infrastructure programs. BABs have created jobs and financed programs in urban and rural areas. In my home state of Michigan, BABs have been used 35 times for a total of $1.394 billion in project funding to help improve our schools, water utilities, sewers, hospitals, transit and other public projects. “I know many of my colleagues have seen the success of BABs in their hometowns and heard from local elected officials who understand how vital these resources are during a time of economic downturn. “Some of my colleagues have also seen the success of Recovery Zone bonds, which are targeted specifically to areas of high unemployment. “Some areas of the country with high unemployment did not receive recovery bond allocations in previous bills and this legislation attempts to remedy this by providing an additional allocation that would ensure that all areas nationwide receive at least a minimum allocation of Recovery Zone bonds based on the number of unemployed in that locality. “This is a means of honing in, targeting our resources where they are needed most. In addition to extending BABs, and targeting Recovery Zone Bonds, today’s legislation takes additional steps to help communities, particularly those in low-income areas, attract investments. “By exempting New Market Tax Credits from the AMT, we can hopefully encourage new investors to help create economic opportunities in these low-income communities. “While we continue expanding our work to give State and local governments the resources they need to create jobs and improve our communities, we must also look at ways to provide relief to small businesses, a critical engine for our economic recovery. “As many of you know, President Obama outlined a proposal in his budget to exclude 100% of capital gains on small business stock. We share his view that this provision would help encourage immediate investments and growth that will in turn help our small businesses hire new workers and continue fueling our economic recovery. “We have also included provisions to remove onerous penalties from small businesses to help owners of those businesses focus their resources on keeping their workers employed and hopefully adding new workers as they grow. “As confidence in the economy continues to grow, we will see new entrepreneurs emerge willing to start new enterprises and this bill takes an important step to reduce the barrier of start up expenses on new businesses. By allowing entrepreneurs to recover a greater portion of their start-up expenses, the proposal would assist small business owners in overcoming these barriers so they too can focus on hiring new workers and growing their business. “Today’s bill is the product of collaboration between members of this Committee, the Administration and our colleagues in Congress. A number of the individual provisions have been introduced as separate legislation with bi-partisan support and we have distributed a list of Build America Bond projects in 46 states and the District of Columbia. “Today’s hearing is another step – and there will be more -- taken by this Committee to address the staggering job loss. I yield to my friend Dave Camp and welcome his opening remarks.” (####)
03.17.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today unanimously approved, H.R. 4851 the Continuing Extension Act of 2010. The legislation extends critical unemployment and health care benefits, ensures that Medicare beneficiaries can continue seeing their doctors and extends other programs set to expire at the end of March.Click here for bill text and summary of H.R. 4851. “The immediate assistance provided by extending these unemployment and health benefits offers much-needed security for millions of Americans as they search for their next job opportunity,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The bill also assures Medicare and TRICARE beneficiaries that they can continue visiting their doctors, by preventing a drastic cut in Medicare payment rates.”Summary of the Continuing Extension Act of 2010 • Extension of Unemployment Insurance Programs - Extends Federal Unemployment Programs, including the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Program, through May 05, 2010. • Extension of COBRA Assistance - Extends eligibility for 65% subsidy for COBRA premiums through April, 30 2010. • Extension of Medicare Physician Update - Extends current Medicare payment rates for physicians (preventing a 21% payment reduction) through April 30, 2010. • Extension of Medicare Therapy Caps Exceptions - Extends exceptions process for beneficiary payment limits on outpatient therapy services through April 30, 2010. • Clarification of Health Information Technology (IT) Incentives – Ensures certain doctors in outpatient facilities are eligible for health IT payments under Medicare and Medicaid. • Extension of Poverty Guidelines - Extends current provision maintaining 2009 poverty guidelines through April, 30 2010 (to prevent a lowering of the poverty line). • Extension of National Flood Insurance Program - Extends provision through April 30, 2010. • Satellite Television Extension - Extends the copyright license used by satellite television providers through April 30, 2010. • Compensation for Furloughed Employees – Provides compensation for federal employees furloughed during March 1st and 2nd as the result of the lapse in expenditure authority from the Highway Trust Fund. (####)
03.17.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House Committee on Ways and Means today approved H.R. 4849, the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act, legislation to provide tax relief to small businesses and extend effective financing measures to create jobs and improve America’s cities and towns. “Each one of us knows the acute pain and job loss this recession has brought to our communities back home,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “This bill is another step to address the critical, overarching need to help our economy recover and resume positive job growth. By assisting small businesses and continuing effective financing mechanisms for State and local governments, we can spur job growth and make vital improvements to our communities. We must continue to take active and effective steps to address the number one priority of American families, creating new job opportunities.” During consideration of the bill, a number of Committee Members highlighted the effective use of Build America Bonds (BABs), a program many have deemed one of the economic recovery efforts’ biggest successes, to create jobs and fund important projects in nearly every state in the nation. A detailed description of BABs including a State-by-State listing of BABs issuances through February 1, 2010 can be found here. The House is expected to consider the legislation as early as next week. Highlights of the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act include: • Extension of successful Build America Bonds • 100 percent exclusion of small business capital gains• Small business penalty relief• Increase in deduction for start-up expenditures Please click here for a comprehensive listing of resources related to H.R. 4849, including bill text, technical descriptions and revenue estimates from the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT), as well as amendments offered during markup. (####)
03.16.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) introduced H.R. 4851 the Continuing Extension Act of 2010. The legislation extends critical unemployment and health care benefits, ensures that Medicare beneficiaries can continue seeing their doctors and extends other programs set to expire at the end of March. “While the economy is showing signs of recovery, families are still finding it difficult to make ends meet,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “This critical bill ensures that millions of Americans who have lost their jobs do not also lose the unemployment and health care benefits as they look for their next job opportunity. The legislation also ensures that millions of Medicare beneficiaries and members of the military and their families can continue visiting their doctors by preventing a drastic cut in the Medicare payment rate for physicians.” Summary of the Continuing Extension Act of 2010 I. Extension of Unemployment Insurance Programs - Extends Federal Unemployment Programs, including the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Program, through May 05, 2010. II. Extension of COBRA Assistance - Extends eligibility for 65% subsidy for COBRA premiums through April 30, 2010. III. Extension of Medicare Physician Update - Extends current Medicare payment rates for physicians (preventing a 21% payment reduction) through April 30, 2010. IV. Extension of Medicare Therapy Caps Exceptions - Extends exceptions process for beneficiary payment limits on outpatient therapy services through April 30, 2010. V. Extension of Poverty Guidelines - Extends current provision maintaining 2009 poverty guidelines through April 30, 2010 (to prevent a lowering of the poverty line). VI. Extension of National Flood Insurance Program - Extends provision through April 30, 2010. VII. Satellite Television Extension - Extends the copyright license used by satellite television providers through April 30, 2010. VIII. Compensation for Furloughed Employees – Provides compensation for federal employees furloughed during March 1st and 2nd as the result of the lapse in expenditure authority from the Highway Trust Fund. Click here to view the legislative text. (####)
03.15.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) today unveiled a discussion draft of the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act, legislation to provide tax relief to small businesses and extend effective financing measures to create jobs and improve America’s cities and towns. “The Ways and Means Committee is acutely focused on legislation that will help spur job growth in our communities,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “Small businesses are an important engine of our economy and this bill combines a number of proposals to help them grow and free up resources to hire new workers. This bill also extends effective financing measures like the Build America and Recovery Zone Bonds so that they can continue creating new jobs while making critical improvements to our communities.” The Committee on Ways and Means is expected to consider the legislation on Wednesday. Highlights of the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act include: • Extension of successful Build America Bonds (BABs)• 100 percent exclusion of small business capital gains• Small business penalty relief• Increase in deduction for start-up expenditures Please click here for a detailed summary of provisions included in the draft. Please click here for text of the discussion draft. (####)
03.11.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin and Senator Carl Levin praised today’s announcement by the Environmental Protection Agency that it will soon return to St. Clair Shores to perform additional PCB cleanup work in the Ten Mile Drain. Work on the $864,000 project will begin in the very near future. Rep. Levin praised today’s announcement: “It is so important that the EPA is coming back in to help the community deal with this problem. We cannot let this situation fester and allow the PCBs to re-contaminate the canals and threaten Lake St. Clair.” Senator Levin called today’s announcement good news for the Lake St. Clair Community. “Protecting and restoring Lake St. Clair and the Great Lakes watershed is one of my most important goals. The effects that these PCBs, dumped in this area decades ago, have on our ecosystem even today illustrates the importance of being vigilant against new contaminants now and in the future.” The cleanup will include de-watering the sewer along Bon Brae and removing contaminated sediment from the drain; installing temporary weir structures within the drain to collect further sediment; removing sediment and contamination from the outfall of the drain; and conducting a more extensive investigation to try and locate where the PCBs are entering the drain system. Rep. Levin and Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow wrote to Administrator of EPA Region 5, Bharat Mathur, last November following sediment testing that revealed that high levels of PCBs have once again seeped into the Ten Mile Drain in St. Clair Shores. The letter urged EPA to take action to mobilize an assessment and response team to investigate the source of the re-contamination and take immediate steps to address the problem. The letter is available here. Rep. Levin later telephoned Administrator Mathur to underscore the necessity of prompt action to protect human health and prevent extensive re-contamination of the nearby canals and Lake St. Clair. Earlier this month, the St. Clair Shores Drain site was proposed for addition to the Superfund National Priorities List. A final decision to list the site on the NPL is expected later this year. Listing would trigger a comprehensive site investigation to track down the source of the PCB contamination and would make the site eligible for federal Superfund cleanup funds. (####)
03.11.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Thank you for contacting me with your concerns about credit card company abuses. Please know that your views are important to me, and I appreciate hearing from you about this issue. I fully share your concerns about dramatic rate hikes, large overdraft fees, and other unfair credit card company practices, and I completely agree that Congress must act to end these abuses. Last year, the House of Representatives approved, with my support, a number of measures to protect consumers. In May, we passed the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act, which allows cardholders to set hard credit limits and prevents companies from charging excessive “over-the-limit” fees. It also ends shameful penalties for cardholders who pay on time, and prohibits card companies from knowingly issuing cards to vulnerable minors. And perhaps most importantly, it prevents credit card companies from raising interest rates on existing balances unless the cardholder is 60 days late on their payment. Originally, this bill was supposed to take effect in February 2010. But, after hearing from people like you about escalating unfair practices, I cosponsored and the House approved the Expedited Card Reform for Consumers Act of 2009. This bill, after Senate approval, will put these restraints on credit card abuses immediately. I continue to believe that Congress must do more to ease the financial burden Americans confront as they struggle with these difficult times. Please be assured of my continued attention to this matter. Thank you again for writing. I hope you will continue to be in touch on issues of concern. I have also enclosed a fact sheet about the benefits of credit card reform for your convenience. (####)
03.10.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 4783, bipartisan legislation to allow individuals who make charitable contributions to victims of the earthquake in Chile (prior to April 15, 2010) to claim an itemized charitable deduction on their 2009 tax return instead of having to wait until next year to claim these deductions on their 2010 tax return. The bill also includes a provision that would extend the ability to claim the charitable deduction for contributions made to assist victims of the earthquake in Haiti to the same date on 2009 tax returns. The bipartisan measure was introduced yesterday by Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI). “After seeing the immense devastation caused by the earthquakes in Chile and Haiti, we all want to ensure that the American people can join together to express our support and our alliance with the people of these two countries,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI). “I thank Ranking Member Camp for working with me on this measure that would allow taxpayers to claim charitable contributions to victims of the Chilean earthquake on their 2009 tax returns, instead of waiting until next year, and provide taxpayers with a little more time relating to the victims of the Haitian earthquake.” “I am pleased that this important legislation passed the House unanimously, showing the desire of the Congress to find ways to help the victims of the earthquakes in Chile and Haiti,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI). “I hope it will be promptly passed by the Senate and get the President’s signature. I thank Chairman Levin for his bipartisan and timely work on this bill.” On January 20, 2010 the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 4462, legislation that allows individuals who make charitable contributions to assist victims of the earthquake in Haiti to claim an itemized charitable deduction on their 2009 tax return. President Obama signed the bill into law on January 22, 2010. In January of 2005, Congress enacted this type of relief for individuals that made charitable contributions to assist victims of the Indian Ocean tsunami that occurred in late December of 2004. That bill (H.R. 241 in the 109th Congress) passed the House of Representatives without objection and subsequently passed the Senate by unanimous consent. (####)
03.09.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI) today introduced legislation that would allow individuals who make charitable contributions to victims of the earthquake in Chile (prior to April 15, 2010) to claim an itemized charitable deduction on their 2009 tax return instead of having to wait until next year to claim these deductions on their 2010 tax return. The bill also includes a provision that would extend the ability to claim the charitable deduction for contributions made to assist victims of the earthquake in Haiti to the same date on 2009 tax returns. Please click here to view text of the legislation. “Americans are deeply committed to helping those in need and this is on full display with respect to the assistance they have provided our neighbors in Chile and Haiti,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI). “Millions of families have given selflessly, even in uncertain economic times, so that those struck by natural disaster may begin rebuilding their lives. This bill will encourage those who are considering a donation to take action now. I want to thank Ranking Member Camp for helping to move this legislation forward, and urge its swift passage.” “This bill will extend needed help to the people of Chile and enhance the assistance already being provided to the Haiti earthquake victims,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI). “By making charitable donations made before April 15, 2010 deductible for the 2009 tax year, we will encourage even greater and immediate giving. These donations will provide critical relief to the victims of these tragic disasters. I thank Chairman Levin for his work on this important legislation and hope all of our colleagues will support this bill.” On January 20, 2010 the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 4462, legislation that allows individuals who make charitable contributions to assist victims of the earthquake in Haiti to claim an itemized charitable deduction on their 2009 tax return. President Obama signed the bill into law on January 22, 2010. In January of 2005, Congress enacted this type of relief for individuals that made charitable contributions to assist victims of the Indian Ocean tsunami that occurred in late December of 2004. That bill (H.R. 241 in the 109th Congress) passed the House of Representatives without objection and subsequently passed the Senate by unanimous consent. (####)
03.05.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement on employment data released today by the Department of Labor: “Today’s numbers show that more is needed to help millions of unemployed Americans return to work. While some progress has been made, recovery is not coming quickly enough to families and communities who are still digging out from a recession in which 8.4 million jobs have disappeared. Yesterday the House passed legislation to give businesses tax incentives to hire new workers and expand successful financing tools that create jobs improving our cities and towns. We must move quickly to solicit ideas and craft legislation to further stabilize and grow employment opportunities across America.” (####)
03.04.2010	(Washington D.C.) - Acting Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement: “The Ways and Means Committee plays a vital role on critical issues facing American families, including, job creation, economic development, and health care. I look forward to moving vigorously on this agenda. That means working collaboratively with Democrats on the Committee and the entire caucus, with Congressional leadership and the Obama Administration, and undertaking discussions with Republicans in order to move our nation forward.” (####)
03.04.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives today approved bipartisan legislation to help spur job creation and make immediate infrastructure investments, taking another step toward economic recovery. H.R. 2847, the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act, includes the House amendments to the Senate-passed bill and was approved by a vote of 217-201. “Spurring job creation is our top priority as families in Michigan and across America continue to struggle,” said Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “The Recovery Act has stemmed the downward economic spiral, but hiring has not yet resumed in earnest. The HIRE Act will add a spark for hiring and reinforces private sector growth.” The House-passed version amends the Senate bill to: ensure the bill is fully paid for, ensure that small businesses can take advantage of the payroll tax exemption, increase the bond subsidy for States, and continue requirements ensuring that a portion of the highway and transit funding goes to minority-owned businesses. “As we take these additional steps, and recognize that we must take more steps to create jobs, we must look to the longer term. Our fiscal situation is simply not sustainable. That’s why it’s so important that this bill is fully paid for, largely by cracking down on offshore tax abuse,” concluded Chairman Levin. New Tax Incentives for Businesses to Hire Unemployed Workers • Tax incentives for businesses to spur immediate job growth. A new payroll tax exemption to provide employers with incentives to hire and retain new employees. The bill provides businesses with an exemption from Social Security payroll taxes for every worker hired in 2010 who has been unemployed for at least 60 days. (The maximum value of this incentive is $6,621, which equals to 6.2 percent of wages paid in 2010 up to the FICA wage cap of $106,800.) The longer that a business has a new qualified worker on its payroll, the greater the tax benefit. The House amendments incorporate an IRS fix to make sure that small businesses can take advantage of the payroll tax holiday. • Bonus for Keeping Employees Long Term. Provides an additional $1,000 income tax credit for every new employee retained for 52 weeks. Spur Small Business Investments to Grow • Small Business Expensing. Extends Recovery Act provisions that double the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments and purchases of new equipment made in 2010 from $125,000 to $250,000. This will help small business make the investments they need to grow and hire more workers. Highways and Infrastructure • School Construction, Energy Conservation and Renewable Energy. Expands Build America Bond’s successful direct payment option to include the issuers of qualified school construction bonds, qualified zone academy bonds, clean renewable energy bonds, and qualified energy conservation bonds. • Transportation Extension. Extends surface transportation programs through December 31, 2010 to provide states and localities with the certainty they need to make decisions on capital-intensive projects and allow for billions more to be invested in infrastructure throughout the United States. It includes language continuing the application and enforcement of the minority-owned business enterprise contracting requirements for surface transportation projects. • Avoiding a Highway Shortfall & Bolstering the Trust Fund. Transfers approximately $20 billion from the General Treasury and to the Highway Trust Fund (HTF), as the HTF is estimated to run short of funds in June. This transfer will reimburse the HTF for interest it should have collected in the past and will allow the federal government to support existing federal highway and transit programs through the end of this year at the levels authorized for Fiscal Year 2009. • Critical to Job Creation. Every $1 billion in federal funds creates 34,700 jobs. Construction-related manufacturing is operating at 68 percent of capacity and has an unemployment rate of nearly 25 percent. Offsets• Cracks down on Overseas Tax Havens. Provides the U.S. Treasury Department with significant new tools to find and prosecute U.S. individuals that hide assets overseas from the Internal Revenue Service. The bill would require new reporting by foreign financial institutions to give the IRS more data to detect fraud and tax evasion. • Delaying tax break for foreign interest payments. Delays for 3 years (through 2020) a questionable tax break enacted in 2004 that would let U.S. multinational companies that have shipped jobs overseas reduce their U.S. taxes by deducting more of their worldwide interest income against their U.S. income. This provision has not gone into effect, and not one company currently utilizes this provision. Click here for additional information, including a summary and JCT table of the amended Senate Jobs bill. (####)
02.26.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Thursday evening the House of Representatives passed a 30 day extension for emergency unemployment compensation and COBRA health care assistance on a bipartisan voice vote. When the extension was to be voted on in the Senate, Senator Bunning objected to having an immediate vote on the issue, thus forcing procedural motions that will delay any vote until next week. “It is outrageous that one Senator can stand in the way of an extension of emergency unemployment benefits,” said Rep. Levin. “Republican Senators held up the last extension of unemployment benefits only to ultimately pass the legislation by a vote of 98 to 0.” “The Senate must act as soon as they get back next week. This delay adds unnecessary stress for unemployed workers who are relying on these benefits as they look for work,” said Rep. Levin. After the standard 26 week state unemployment benefit, there are currently five tiers of extended unemployment benefits. If the extended benefits are allowed to expire, workers would be able to receive unemployment benefits through the end of their current tier but not beyond. The National Employment Law Project estimates that 61,990 people in Michigan and 1.2 million people nationally will lose unemployment benefits in March alone if emergency benefits expire. The number of long-term unemployed has continued to increase nationwide and is currently at 6.3 million people, the highest level since 1948. (####)
02.24.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed the Health Insurance Fair Competition Act today, legislation that promotes greater competition amongst health care insurance companies by making them subject to the same anti-trust laws governing nearly all other industries. The legislation passed by a vote of 406 to 19. “Removing the anti-trust exemption will allow federal enforcement officials to ensure health insurance companies are not using policies, such as price-fixing or collusion, to harm consumers,” said Rep. Levin. “We should be using all the tools at our disposal to bring down health care costs for Michigan families.” Since 1945, when the original anti-trust exemption was enacted, it has been the responsibility of states to monitor and bring cases against health insurance companies suspected of using price-fixing, collusion, or other anti-competitive practices. However, state insurance commissioners have not brought any actions against health insurers for anti-competitive conduct during at least the last five years. In 2007 the National Association of State Attorneys General overwhelming adopted a resolution calling for repealing the exemption. Comprehensive health care reform legislation passed by the House in November included a repeal of the anti-trust exemption as well as several other provisions to make the health care market more competitive. These included the creation of a health insurance exchanges where individuals and small businesses would be able to comparison shop for health care plans, new rules to allow states to partner so that their citizens can shop for health insurance across state lines, and prohibition against pre-existing condition exclusions that will require insurance companies to compete on price and quality rather than on the basis of which one can assemble the healthiest pool of subscribers. “The removal of the anti-trust exemption will promote competition, but to truly expand and strengthen the health insurance marketplace we need comprehensive reform,” said Rep. Levin. (####)
02.23.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Congressmen Sander Levin, John Dingell, and Gary Peters introduced legislation yesterday evening to help manufacturing firms access the financing they need to expand, diversify, and hire new workers. Levin, Dingell, and Peters were joined in introducing the legislation by Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank, whose committee will have jurisdiction over the legislation. Additional original co-sponsors include Reps. Kanjorski, Dennis Moore, Fudge, Kildee, Pascrell, Lipinski, Doyle, Etheridge, Butterfield, Tim Ryan and Schwartz. While the US economy has shown signs of recovery, too many manufacturers are unable to access the credit they need to sustain and expand their business. The manufacturing sector was particularly hard hit by the recession and financial crisis, leaving many firms with diminished cash flow and depleted collateral. As a result, even where banks have the capital to lend, many viable manufacturers are unable to qualify for the loan they need to recover and support our national recovery. “Manufacturers everywhere, and especially in Michigan, are rapidly transforming to remain competitive in the new economy. Unfortunately cash flows and collateral have been hit hard by the recession making it increasingly difficult for firms to access the capital they need to expand, diversify, and hire,” said Rep. Levin. “We are talking to the Administration as they expand their small business proposal about provisions that directly address the collateral and cash flow short falls that are preventing too many firms from accessing credit. This legislation represents a model that is working today to help firms with diminished collateral values access the credit they need.” "The Manufacturing Modernization and Diversification Act will go a great way toward freeing up credit for small and medium-sized manufacturers," said Rep. Dingell. "Not only will the loans facilitated by this legislation allow our manufacturing base to continue present operations, but it will also enable it to make investments in the future. By facilitating diversification into new industries, such as clean energy, the Manufacturing Modernization and Diversification Act will ensure the jobs of the future are created and maintained in the United States." “During the field hearing we held on small business lending in November and in conversations with business owners throughout Southeast Michigan, I hear time and again that a lack of small business lending is a major impediment to creating jobs in Michigan,” said Rep. Peters. “Large banks have admitted they are not lending to Michigan manufacturers. Unlocking capital for small businesses is critical to creating a climate of job creation in Michigan.” The Manufacturing Modernization and Diversification Act [H.R. 4629] utilizes a credit support model that the Michigan Economic Development Corporation has successfully used to help manufacturers diversify their businesses. The bill would give states resources to partner with financial institutions to directly address the cash flow and collateral problems that are preventing too many manufacturers from accessing credit, and complements President Obama’s call to expand access to credit as central priority of economic recovery efforts. Six governors recently wrote to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner calling on the Administration to make funding available for such a program. A fact sheet on the legislation is attached and available here. (####)
02.12.2010	(Roseville, MI) - The US Department of Labor announced today that Macomb Community College will receive $4,971,642 to train unemployed and dislocated workers for jobs in the defense industry. The grant builds on a $550,000 award that Rep. Levin secured in this year’s annual appropriations bill for the college’s Center of Expertise in Defense. The grant is part of $226 million in Recovery Act grants announced today for job training in high growth and emerging industries. “This award recognizes the strength of Macomb Community College’s training programs and collaboration with local partners and provides a key boost to Macomb County’s efforts to increase defense-related jobs,” said Rep. Levin. “This grant is an important step in helping our residents strategically retool for an emerging sector of our local economy, while leveraging our population’s strengths in manufacturing and technical fields,” said James Jacobs, president, Macomb Community College. “The Recovery Act’s investments are making a positive difference in the lives of America’s working families,” said Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis. “The Recovery Act funded grants announced today will ensure thousands of workers across the nation can receive high-quality training and employment services, which will lead to good jobs in healthcare and other industries offering career-track employment and good pay and benefits.” Macomb Community College will use the grant to serve 1,600 participants and place 922 individuals into training-related employment in defense industries, one of the fastest growing fields in Macomb County. The Department of Defense’s expansion of the Tank-Automotive and Armaments Command (TACOM) and the Tank Automotive Research, Development, and Engineering Center (TARDEC), both located in Warren, Michigan, is expected to create almost 5,000 new jobs, as well as attract new defense-equipment businesses and manufacturers to Southeast Michigan. Macomb Community College’s partnership with TACOM and TARDEC will allow Macomb Community College to prepare workers directly for jobs at these facilities. Workers will be prepared for jobs in the defense industry by filling knowledge and skill needs in acquisitions and logistics, engineering and advanced technology. Macomb Community College and its partners will provide support services, including remediation for workers who lack basic skills, wrap around services to support appropriate access to child care and transportation, and intensive job preparation, placement, and referral. (####)
02.12.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The US Department of Health and Human Services announced today that Michigan is the recipient of a $15 million grant aimed at improving health care quality, cost, efficiency, and patent safety through the electronic exchange of health information. Congressman Levin previously wrote a letter in support of the grant application. “Improving health information technology and health information exchange is vitally important to improving our health system as a whole,” said Rep. Levin. “Advancements in health information technology are critical for patient safety, patient care, and bringing down health care costs.” Funding will be used by the Michigan Health Information Network to implement a statewide health information exchange. Such an exchange will allow doctors and hospitals to access electronic patient information inputted by other physicians or facilities. For example, if a patient receives an x-ray at one facility, the patient’s doctor at another office would be able to securely view the image electronically when the patient comes in for a visit. Enabling this type of exchange will ensure that a patient’s complete health information is available when and where the patient needs it. The grant was part of $750 million in Recovery Act funding announced today to build capacity to enable widespread meaningful use of health information technology. (####)
02.05.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced this week that the Center Line Public Safety Department and Southfield Fire Department will be the recipients of firefighter assistance grants. Congressman Levin wrote letters to DHS in support of both grant applications. “At a time of unprecedented strain on local budgets, these grants are important to ensure that these first responders have the facilities and equipment they need,” said Rep. Levin. “The funding will allow for needed improvements so firefighters in these two communities are better equipped and prepared to protect local citizens.” The Center Line Public Safety Department will receive $55,176 to acquire new personal protective equipment for firefighters. The funding will allow Center Line to upgrade coats, pants, protective hoods, and boots for full-time and volunteer firefighters. “With the current economic conditions and budget constraints we would not have been able to replace this old equipment without the assistance of this grant,” said John Riley, Director of Public Safety for Center Line. The Southfield Fire Department will receive $102,000 to construct new fire hall air handling systems in three of their five fire stations. The diesel exhaust systems currently in place have deteriorated extensively and no longer effectively remove harmful gases and particles put into the air by truck engines. Replacing the air handling systems will greatly improve the health of the firefighters, who often spend twenty-four hours at a time in the fire station. (####)
02.04.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statements today following U.S. Department of Commerce Secretary Locke’s announcement regarding the Administration’s export promotion strategy: “The U.S. government must play a principal role in securing the reciprocal market access our trade agreements promise,” said Chairman Rangel. “Promoting U.S. exports is a critical component of the U.S. economic recovery and job creation efforts and I support Secretary Locke and the Administration’s work to open new markets and make sure that U.S. goods and services get fair market access abroad.” “Secretary Locke has laid out some of the necessary changes in direction so that expanded exports can play an important role in creating new jobs, a number one challenge,” said Trade Subcommittee Chairman Levin. “First, government must be an active partner to assist the private sector, especially small and medium-sized businesses not actively participating in trade today, and second, trade policies must make certain that other markets are as open as U.S. markets and that trade agreements are enforced.” (####)
02.03.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) sent the following letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk today urging further action to open up the Japanese Cash for Clunkers program and secure greater access for U.S. auto exports in the Japanese marketplace: Click here to view a signed pdf of the letter February 3, 2010 The Honorable Ronald Kirk United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20508 Dear Ambassador Kirk: We are writing to express our appreciation for your efforts to obtain eligibility for American-made autos to Japan’s Environmental Friendly Vehicles (“eco-cars”) program, and to encourage your continued vigorous engagement with Japan in order to secure greater access for U.S. auto exports to that country’s market. Your work in recent weeks was a significant first step, but cannot be the last in this Administration’s work to open Japan’s market, which has been essentially closed to the U.S. automotive industry. In light of the President’s commitment to dramatically increase exports, it is critical that USTR press our trading partners to dismantle their market access barriers. As you are aware, Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) announced on January 19, 2010, that it was revising it eco-cars program to permit U.S. vehicles imported under the Preferential Handling Procedure (PHP) to be eligible for the eco-cars program when certain requirements are met. Specifically, the Government of Japan committed to accepting U.S. data regarding fuel economy to determine whether imported U.S. vehicles satisfy Japan’s 2010 fuel economy standard. While this is a positive development, particularly in light of the historic barriers to the Japanese auto market, the extent to which this revision achieves real market access gains for U.S. autos turns on Japan’s implementation of the specific details of this program, as well as Japan’s willingness to address its longstanding low import penetration for autos. In particular, Japan stated that it would determine the eligibility of U.S. imported vehicles on the basis of their “city” fuel economy ratings, as opposed to their “combined” ratings. This “city” rating is, however, more restrictive than the “combined” rating, and provides an incomplete picture of the overall fuel economy of U.S. vehicles. It is important to note that the “combined” rating was used in the U.S. cash-for-clunkers program, and was applied equally to vehicles produced by U.S. and Japanese automakers. We understand that Japan’s use of the “city” rating will limit the eligibility of, and the practical commercial impact for, U.S. vehicles under the eco-cars program. U.S. vehicles are competitive and should be allowed to compete in the Japanese market on a level-playing field. This is particularly true where the U.S. “city” rating may be more stringent than the corresponding ratings for other vehicles, whether imported or produced in Japan. Therefore, we request that you continue your engagement with the Government of Japan in order to ensure that imported U.S. vehicles are eligible for the eco-car program not only in theory, but in practice. To this end, we ask that you press the Government of Japan to base its eligibility determinations for the eco-car program on the “combined” ratings for U.S. vehicles imported into Japan under the PHP program. We applaud your attention to the problems presented by the eco-car program and we stand ready to work with you to address remaining barriers that impede access by our automotive industry to the third largest auto market in the world. Sincerely, ____________________________ ___________________________ The Honorable Charles B. Rangel The Honorable Sander M. Levin Chairman Chairman, Subcommittee on Trade (####)
02.01.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin welcomed the announcement today that the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality had awarded Recovery Act funds to more than two dozen Michigan water infrastructure projects around the state, including several projects in Macomb and Oakland Counties. All together, Michigan announced a total of $89.8 million in Recovery Act money to 27 water infrastructure projects. The total cost of these projects totals $213.5 million. The projects will repair sewers, improve wastewater collection and treatment facilities, and reduce pollution. “These investments provide badly needed federal money to help repair local water infrastructure, and create job opportunities,” said Rep. Levin. “This funding is vital at a time when local budgets are under tremendous stain.” The largest award announced was $15.9 million in Recovery Act funds to support a $42 million project by Oakland and Macomb Counties to conduct extensive repairs to the Oakland-Macomb Interceptor. The interceptor is a 21-mile sewer that is the sole conduit that transports sanitary sewage from over 300,000 residents of Oakland and Macomb Counties to the City of Detroit for treatment. Oakland and Macomb Counties assumed ownership of the Interceptor a year ago in a broad settlement agreement reached with the Detroit Water and Sewage Department as well as the City of Detroit and Wayne County. The settlement resolved a large number of longstanding disputes between the parties, ending years of contentious litigation. Other projects receiving Recovery Act awards include: the City of Lathrup Village, $482,000 for Sewer rehabilitation; the City of Warren, $2 million to help upgrade its wastewater treatment plant, and $882,000 to assist the 8 ½ Mile Relief Drain District in Macomb County with retention basin improvements. More information on the announcement is available here: https://www.michigan.gov/deq/0,1607,7-135--230735--,00.html (####)
01.29.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin, a Member of the Ways and Means Committee, issued the following statement on the need to accelerate action on job creation. “Today’s news of 4th Quarter GDP growth should light a fire under Washington to finalize action on targeted job creation proposals that will boost vital segments of economic recovery,” said Rep. Levin. “We must pull out all of the stops to provide effective incentives for businesses to accelerate the hiring of workers and we must unfreeze the credit which is holding our small businesses back.” “I hope Republicans will be receptive to the President’s announcement of a tax credit proposal when he meets with them today and join with us to design tax credit, small business lending, and other targeted initiatives that will contribute to economic growth throughout 2010,” said Levin. Rep. Levin has introduced legislation to eliminate capital gains tax on investments in qualified small business stock in 2010 and is working with Reps. Dingell and Peters to introduce legislation that will create a program to help manufacturers to access the financing they need to expand, diversify, and hire new workers. This Manufacturing Modernization and Diversification Act utilizes a credit support model that the Michigan Economic Development Corporation has successfully used to help manufacturers diversify their businesses. The bill would give states the resources to partner with financial institutions to directly address the cash flow and collateral problems that are preventing too many manufacturers from accessing credit. More information on the Manufacturing Modernization and Diversification Act is available here. More information on Congressman Levin’s proposal to eliminate capital gains tax on qualified investments is available here. (####)
01.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Representatives Sander Levin, John Dingell, and Gary Peters announced today that they will be introducing legislation to help manufacturers to access the financing they need to expand, diversify, and hire new workers. President Obama has made access to credit a central priority of economic recovery efforts and is expected to address the issue during tonight’s State of the Union. The Manufacturing Modernization and Diversification Act utilizes a credit support model that the Michigan Economic Development Corporation has successfully used to help manufacturers diversify their businesses. The bill would give states the resources to partner with financial institutions to directly address the cash flow and collateral problems that are preventing too many manufacturers from accessing credit. Six governors recently wrote to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner calling on the Administration to make funding available for such a program. “I think the President will make clear tonight that helping small businesses access credit is central to job creation,” said Rep. Levin. “It’s vital that we recognize the unique challenges that manufacturers face in obtaining credit right now. Their cash flows and collateral have been hit hard by the recession, and we must ensure that any small business lending plan addresses these challenges.” “Our manufacturers and entrepreneurs, the best in the world, are being forced to sit on their hands right now. Without new lines of credit, they’re unable to expand and hire new workers, and cannot seize opportunities before them to create jobs and prosperity,” said Rep. Dingell. “The President has averted a depression, but without projects like this to expand our economy, we can’t fully recover. This is a good plan and I look forward to working with my Michigan colleagues to get this bill onto the President’s desk.” “During the field hearing we held on small business lending in November and in conversations with business owners throughout Southeast Michigan, I hear time and again that a lack of small business lending is a major impediment to creating jobs in Michigan,” said Rep. Peters. “Large banks have admitted they are not lending to Michigan manufacturers. Unlocking capital for small businesses is critical to creating a climate of job creation in Michigan.” (####)
01.27.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin released the following statement after President Obama delivered the State of the Union address. “The President did what a President should do in critical times – talk straight to the American people. In these difficult days he called on us to rise to the occasion to address the issues facing families across America especially the need to speed up the economic recovery.” (####)
01.20.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed legislation today that would allow charitable contributions to victims of the earthquake in Haiti prior to March 1st to be claimed as an itemized charitable deduction on taxpayers’ 2009 tax return rather than their 2010 tax return. The legislation was passed unanimously by the House and is expected to be taken up by the Senate soon. “The massive earthquake that devastated our neighbor Haiti has mobilized us all into action. Our government, USAID and the military, are moving as quickly as they can to deliver aid and our citizens have answered the call, pledging millions of dollars to relief efforts,” said Rep. Levin. “This generosity comes at a time when many are struggling to make ends meet themselves. This modest change to the tax code will allow more Americans to make donations to this important relief effort.” In January of 2005, Congress enacted this type of relief for individuals that made charitable contributions to victims of the Indian Ocean tsunami that occurred in late December of 2004. That bill (H.R. 241 in the 109th Congress) passed the House of Representatives without objection and subsequently passed the Senate by unanimous consent. (####)
01.20.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Labor announced today that the State of Michigan is the recipient of a State Energy Sector Partnership and Training Grant to train workers in the skills demanded by local renewable energy and energy efficiency firms and place the workers into jobs. The state’s grant application calls for $2,092,290 to be used in Southeast Michigan for training in advanced energy storage and solar energy. The funding, awarded as part of the Recovery Act, will utilize key partnerships between industry, labor, and workforce organizations. “Today’s announcement gives another important boost to Michigan’s training and economic development initiatives by strengthening a vital private-public partnership for training and placement in emerging energy jobs,” said Rep. Levin. “While workers train for new jobs, we must also redouble our efforts to encourage job growth and get credit flowing to small businesses so they can expand.” State-wide, Michigan received $5.8 million for worker training and placement. Funding in Southeast Michigan will be divided between two industry sectors: Advanced Energy Storage and Solar Energy. Advanced Energy StorageMichigan will leverage its partnership with advanced energy storage employers and the $1.36 billion previously awarded by U.S. Department of Energy grants to create an Advanced Battery Skills Alliance in Southeast Michigan. This alliance will provide undergraduate and/or graduate level training and placement assistance to meet the workforce needs of a variety of Advanced Energy Storage employers and a range of occupations including: design, development and test engineers and technicians, assemblers, technologists, and engineers across several concentrations. Training will be provided by Wayne State University, Michigan Technological University, Macomb Community College, and A&E Technology. Employer Partners: A&D Technology, Inc., A123 Systems, ABB, ALTe, Compact Power, Dow Kokam, Exoca, Fanuc, General Motors, Battery Lab, Hirata, Lotus Engineering, Johnson Controls, Magna, Mahle, Rousch Other Key Partners: Macomb-St. Clair County Michigan Works!, Southeast Michigan Community Alliance (SEMCA) Michigan Works!, Wayne State University (WSU), Michigan Technological University (MTU), Detroit Regional Chamber, Engineering Society of Detroit, Macomb Community College (MCC) Total allocation: $1,676,742 Solar EnergyTraining will consist of the Energy Technology – Renewable Energy Basic and Advanced Certificate programs offered through Henry Ford Community College. Participants will be trained and placed as chemical process technicians, solar engineering technicians, and installers. Employers Partners: ECD Unisolar Ovonics, Power Panel, Solar Works LLC, Harland Electric LLC, Xtreme Power, Clairvoyant, Luma, GM Engineers and Associates, Casa de Santiago, Power Panel, Mechanical Energy Systems Other Key Partners: Macomb-St. Clair County Michigan Works!, Livingston County Michigan Works!, Henry Ford Community College, Next Energy Total allocation: $415,548 (####)
01.08.2010	(Washington D.C.)- The White House announced today the award of $238 million in tax credits for 13 clean energy manufacturing projects across Michigan. The tax credits were created by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act which was signed into law last year. Congressman Levin joined the rest of the Michigan delegation in a letter of support, available here, for applications of Michigan facilities. “By unleashing private capital, the tax credits announced today will boost American clean energy manufacturing, create thousands of jobs, and take us further down the road to energy independence,” said Rep. Levin. “The countries who lead in clean energy development and manufacturing will be the same countries who lead the global economy in the next decade so it’s vital that we have a robust public-private partnership.” The tax credits, worth thirty percent of each planned project, will be claimed by the selected companies when their proposed facility is placed into service. Nationally, $2.3 billion in tax credits were awarded for 183 projects and will leverage private capital for a total investment of nearly $7.7 billion in high-tech manufacturing in the United States. Because the program generated far more interest than anticipated the Administration has called for an additional $5 billion in tax credits. The program was oversubscribed by a ratio of more than 3 to 1, reflecting a deep pipeline of high quality clean energy manufacturing opportunities and substantial interest from private investors. “I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to support this and other initiatives to create jobs. Doing more to create jobs and spur recovery has to be our top priority in the New Year,” Rep. Levin concluded. Michigan Recipients of Recovery Act Section 48c Tax CreditsHemlock Semiconductor Corp. – $141.8 million – Hemlock Semiconductor will expand a manufacturing plant that produces polycrystalline-silicon used in the production of solar panels. The plants, when fully operational, will produce 19,200 metric tons per year. Dow Corning - Solar Silane – $27.3 million – Dow Corning - Solar Silane will build a new monosilane facility with 60% of production dedicated to the solar PV market. Monosilane is a key component in the production of amorphous thin-film solar panels. Great Lakes Industry, Inc – $1.3 million – Great Lakes Industry will manufacture component precision gears for multi-megawatt wind turbine gearboxes. Nearly all multi-megawatt wind turbines use highly efficient gearboxes to drive electrical generator(s) inside the turbine nacelle. Guardian Industries Corp – $2.7 million – Guardian Industries will expand production for an existing facility to produce unique low iron pattern glass used in solar applications. Once completed, this facility would be the only US owned manufacturer of solar low iron pattern glass in North America and would enable the production of more than 600MW of crystalline silicon modules ilumisys, Inc. – $1.3 million – ilumisys will automate manufacture of LED replacements for fluorescent lighting. Merrill Technologies Group – $22 million – Merrill Technologies Group will invest $73 million in advanced manufacturing equipment to support the production of nacelles for Northern Power's new 2.2 MW utillity-scale wind turbine. Project will progress through prototype and pilot phases into serial production. Rogers Foam Automotive Corporation – $300,000 – Rogers Foam Automotive Corporation will manufacture a component to be used in the thermal management system of Lithium Ion Battery assemblies for electrical vehicles. This sub-component consists of an outer gasket, which locates the component in the assembly, a multi-layer pressure conformable membrane, which provides the constant pressure and a bonding agent, which attaches the outer gasket and membrane. The resulting product will aid domestic battery manufacturing for electric vehicles. Stirling Energy Systems, Inc – $9.8 million – Stirling Energy Systems, Inc will produce Azimuth drives used to track the sun for the SunCatcher, a 25 kW solar dish. The resulting technologies will aid Solar Concentrating Solar Power industry domestically. The Dow Chemical Company – $17.8 million – Dow will produce photovoltaic cells built into residential and commercial roofing and siding products. Dow's technology imbeds solar cells into shingles, sidings, and other materials, enabling lower production and installation costs. United Solar Ovonic, LLC – $11 million – United Solar Ovonic will upgrade technology at existing facilities to improve the efficiency of solar laminates and increase factory throughput capacity. Ven Tower Industries – $2.5 million – Ven Tower will diversify into wind turbine component manufacturing. (####)
12.17.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Levin, the Chair of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, has joined Speaker Pelosi on a delegation that left yesterday evening to Copenhagen for the UN Climate Conference. He is working to ensure that climate change negotiations will result in a global solution to this global problem and will not unfairly disadvantage U.S. industry and workers. As Chair of the Subcommittee on Trade, Representative Levin authored the trade provisions of the climate change legislation that passed the House of Representatives in June. Under those provisions, border adjustment measures will be available, if needed, to ensure that producers in countries that are not parties to an international agreement and that otherwise fail to address climate change do not gain an unfair competitive advantage. Background The trade provisions in the House bill are intended to address the following problem. If the United States enacts more stringent greenhouse gas (GHG) controls than other countries, the production of carbon-intensive goods (e.g., steel, aluminum, paper, glass, chemicals, cement) could migrate from the United States to countries with no or lax controls. This migration could have two serious adverse consequences: International Competitiveness: U.S. businesses and workers would be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to their counterparts in countries with lax or no carbon controls. This could affect U.S. companies that compete against imports, as well as U.S. exporters competing in foreign markets. This is primarily an economic concern. Carbon Leakage: Carbon emissions would merely migrate from the United States to other countries and thereby undermine the environmental purpose of climate change legislation (namely, lowering global greenhouse gas emissions). This is primarily an environmental concern. (####)
12.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved $1.6 million for Lawrence Technological University to develop and test stronger, lighter vehicle armor. The funding was included in the annual Department of Defense funding bill, which the House approved today on a vote of 395 to 34. The measure must now be approved by the Senate. Working with the U.S. Army Tank Automotive Research Development and Engineering Center (TARDEC), and the Army Research Laboratory, Lawrence Tech’s Center for Innovative Materials Research (CIMR) will design, develop and test composite armor for military vehicles. The goal of this effort is to develop vehicle armor that is superior in design, weight and durability than current armor designs and technology. The funding was requested by Rep. Levin. “This award recognizes Lawrence Tech’s expertise in lightweight composite materials,” said Rep. Levin, “The funding will help develop lighter, stronger vehicle armor that is needed to protect our troops in the field. It’s an important investment in cutting-edge technology here in Michigan.” “New armor materials including composites need to be tested and a standard specification established to facilitate acquisition requirement,” said Lewis Walker, President of Lawrence Tech. “We believe that the facilities and expertise available through CIMR can be developed and provide such a path for the U.S. Army.” Opened in 2006, CIMR’s goal is to develop and test new innovative materials under a variety a variety of full-scale, real-world conditions. It features a full-scale structural lab with repeated load testing up to one million lbs. of force, a fire chamber for material and structural durability testing up to 2300°F with loading capabilities, and an environmental test chamber for material testing under long-term harsh conditions. (####)
12.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed, by a vote of 217 to 212, the Jobs for Main Street Act. By passing the Jobs bill the House took the first step in additional action to help the economy recover and create jobs. The next vital step is action by the Senate. The measure invests $75 billion in highways and transit, small business lending, and support for states to retain their teachers, police officers, and firefighters. The legislation also maintains emergency measures from the Recovery Act - including extended unemployment insurance, COBRA subsidies, and Medicaid support for states - so that those hardest hit by the recession continue to have support while they look for work. The legislation uses funds taken from TARP and does not add to the deficit. The Jobs for Main Street Act would provide Michigan $847.5 million in new funding for roads and bridges, above and beyond Michigan’s normal annual highway allocation. The Jobs bill also contained an additional $42.1 million investment to Michigan’s state clean water revolving fund to support water infrastructure projects. “With 5.9 million long-term unemployed, extending unemployment benefits is absolutely essential to help unemployed workers weather this economic storm. But an extension of jobless benefits alone is insufficient,” said Rep. Levin. “We must do more to help create jobs and get people back to work.” The Obama Administration released a comprehensive framework for supporting our nation’s manufacturing base today. The framework focuses on government playing an appropriate role toward each of the major cost drivers in the manufacturing process in order to enhance the competitiveness of American manufacturing. The framework calls for investments in workforce, infrastructure and innovation, as well as a direct market-driven investment of $5 billion through the Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credit created as part of the Recovery Act. “I welcome the release by the White House of a comprehensive framework to support our manufacturing base. This represents a clear recognition of the vital nature of the manufacturing sector to our economy and is sensitive to the economic devastation so many communities and families have experienced as a result of the manufacturing jobs losses caused by the recession,” said Rep. Levin. “We must start working quickly on targeted manufacturing initiatives to grow capacity and keep our manufacturers competitive. “We also need to follow up the Jobs bill approved by the House today with direct incentives for small businesses to invest and hire more workers. Additionally, we must ensure that small businesses have access to capital by eliminating capital gains for investments in qualified small business stock in 2010 and taking innovative approaches to getting credit flowing, such as the national manufacturing diversification fund proposed by the Michigan Economic Development Corporation.” In addition to providing for an extension of emergency unemployment insurance and COBRA subsidies in the Jobs for Main Street Act, Congress voted on extensions for both programs as part of the annual Defense Appropriations bill. The legislation, which passed by a vote of 395 to 34, will ensure that eligible Michigan residents searching for jobs will continue to receive unemployment benefits through February and an additional six months of subsidies (for 15 months total) to help them maintain health insurance through COBRA. The Senate is expected to consider the Defense Appropriations bill within the next week. “While we work to produce an effective, targeted jobs package, we need to maintain COBRA subsidies and emergency unemployment insurance for the thousands of Michigan families searching for work,” concluded Rep. Levin. For more information on the Jobs for Main Street Act, click here. To read the White House Framework on American Manufacturing, click here. For more information on the Defense Appropriations bill, click here. (####)
12.14.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will get an additional $13 million to fend off the spread of Asian carp into the Great Lakes. Members of the Michigan Congressional delegation hope this is just the first round of emergency funding to thwart a crisis the carp would certainly cause in the Great Lakes. In all, it is estimated it will take $30 million in FY2010 to prevent the carp from invading and devastating the Great Lakes. The Asian carp were imported from Asia to the Deep South to cleanse fish ponds and sewage lagoons, but escaped into the Mississippi River and have been working their way north since the 1970s. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) web site, Asian Carp “are a significant threat to the Great Lakes because they are large, extremely prolific, and consume vast amounts of food. They can weigh up to 100 pounds, and can grow to a length of more than four feet. They are well-suited to the climate of the Great Lakes region, which is similar to their native Asian habitats. Researchers expect that Asian carp would disrupt the food chain that supports the native fish of the Great Lakes. Due to their large size, ravenous appetites, and rapid rate of reproduction, these fish could pose a significant risk to the Great Lakes Ecosystem.” This $13 million will be a combination of Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding and reprogrammed U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) funds. The money will be used by the Corps and other agencies to keep the carp out of the Great Lakes. Recently, the carp have been found south of the preventative barrier, just 25 miles from Great Lakes access points and eDNA sampling has found genetic material a mere 8 miles from Lake Michigan. This action comes after Members of the Michigan Congressional delegation wrote a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Committees on Appropriations and Transportation and Infrastructure asking for emergency funding. The Members also met with officials from Corps, EPA and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Coast Guard on Capitol Hill Thursday morning asking for their support on the emergency request. (####)
12.11.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed the Consolidated Appropriations bill yesterday by a vote of 221 to 202. The measure, which combines 6 of the 12 annual funding bills, includes $150,000 to renovate a building and purchase equipment for the FernCare Free Clinic, a health clinic to be located on Nine Mile Road in Ferndale. “The health care reform legislation under consideration in Congress aims to ensure that every American has access to affordable, comprehensive health insurance. But until the legislation is passed into law and goes into effect, there will be people without insurance, or without adequate insurance, to cover the medical care they need,” said Rep. Levin. “The FernCare Free Clinic will provide a place for people to receive crucial health care services. I look forward to the opening of the facility and all the good work that FernCare and its volunteers will do.” “This is such welcome news! We are in an area with very few medical care resources for people without insurance or who are under insured. We can’t open soon enough,” said Ann Heler, President of the FernCare Board. “We have great support from Ferndale and surrounding communities and this very tangible show of support from Washington just emphasizes the ‘community can do’ spirit we have felt as we moved this project along.” The FernCare Free Clinic is scheduled to open in March of next year and will provide non-emergency medical and mental health care, generic medication distribution, community resources referral, and limited dental health services. The clinic will focus on providing care to those who are uninsured and not served by other facilities or programs, targeting those made most vulnerable by the current economic downturn. The clinic will be staffed by licensed medical professionals and has received donated services, equipment, and medical supplies from the business and philanthropic community. The funding requested by Rep. Levin will be used to renovate a facility on Nine Mile Road for the clinic and purchase equipment. The lack of affordable medical care for people without insurance is what led a group of Ferndale residents to organize and begin creating a free medical clinic. The group is now its own nonprofit organization with monthly free health forums, a medication/medical equipment re-cycle program and a website that continually updates health resources. (####)
12.11.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed today a comprehensive set of measures to modernize America’s financial regulations, hold large financial firms accountable and improve consumer protections. The package of reforms addresses the myriad causes – from predatory lending to unregulated financial trading – that led to last year’s financial crisis. The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act passed by a vote of 223 to 202. “This legislation will help correct the regulatory failures that led to the near collapse of the financial markets last year,” said Rep. Levin. “Had this bill been in place last year, the federal government would not have been placed in the untenable position of either bailing out irresponsible firms like AIG or doing nothing, with the risk of a widespread panic that could send the entire economy over the cliff. “The legislation also puts consumer protection on an equal footing with banking regulators to end predatory lending, prevent deliberately misleading ‘disclosures’ and end other industry abuses. We need to ensure that consumers have the information they need to understand the costs, benefits and risks of financial products so they can make informed decisions, and this legislation accomplishes just that.” Details on the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Consumer Protections: Creates the Consumer Financial Protection Agency (CFPA), a new, independent federal agency solely devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial products and services. Ends Taxpayer-funded Bailouts and Prevents the Rise of Institutions that are “Too Big to Fail”: Establishes an orderly process for dismantling large, failing financial institutions like AIG or Lehman Brothers in a way that ends bailouts, protects taxpayers, and prevents contagion to the rest of the financial system. Creates a Systemic Dissolution Fund that can be used to help wind down failing financial institutions, but not to preserve them. The Fund will be pre-funded by assessments on financial companies with more than $50 billion in assets and by hedge funds with more than $10 billion in assets, thus ending the need for taxpayer-funded bailouts. Again, with enactment of this legislation, there are no more taxpayer-funded bailouts for failing institutions. If financial assistance is necessary for orderly dissolution, industry will pay for it. Financial Stability Council: Creates an inter-agency oversight council that will identify and regulate financial firms that are so large, interconnected, or risky that their collapse would put the entire financial system at risk. These systemically risky firms will be subject to heightened oversight, standards, and regulation. Executive Compensation: Gives shareholders a “say on pay” – an advisory vote on pay practices including executive compensation and golden parachutes. It also enables regulators to ban inappropriate or imprudently risky compensation practices, and it requires financial firms to disclose any compensation structures that include incentive-based elements. Investor Protections: Strengthens the SEC’s powers so that it can better protect investors and regulate the nation’s securities markets. It responds to the failures to detect the Madoff and Stanford Financial frauds by ordering a study of the entire securities industry that will identify needed reforms and force the SEC and other entities to further improve investor protection. Regulation of Derivatives: Regulates, for the first time ever, the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives marketplace. Under the bill, all standardized swap transactions between dealers and “major swap participants” would have to be cleared and traded on an exchange or electronic platform. The bill defines a major swap participant as anyone that maintains a substantial net position in swaps, exclusive of hedging for commercial risk, or whose positions create such significant exposure to others that it requires monitoring. Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending: Would incorporate the tough mortgage reform and anti-predatory lending bill the House passed earlier this year. The legislation outlaws many of the egregious industry practices that marked the subprime lending boom, and it would ensure that mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer. It would establish a simple standard for all home loans: institutions must ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. Reform of Credit Rating Agencies: Addresses the role that credit rating agencies played in the economic crisis, and takes strong steps to reduce conflicts of interest, reduce market reliance on credit rating agencies, and impose a liability standard on the agencies. Hedge Fund, Private Equity and Private Pools of Capital Registration: Fills a regulatory hole that allows hedge funds and their advisors to escape any and all regulation. This bill requires almost all advisers to private pools of capital to register with the SEC, and they will be subject to systemic risk regulation by the Financial Stability regulator. Office of Insurance: Creates a Federal Insurance Office that will monitor all aspects of the insurance industry, including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis and undermine the entire financial system. (####)
12.11.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved $1.025 million for Oakland County's Courts and Law Enforcement Management Information System (CLEMIS) yesterday. The funding is part of the Consolidated Appropriations bill, a measure which combines 6 of the 12 annual funding bills, that the House passed by a vote of 221 to 202. The project funding, which will purchase new biometric identification technology, was requested by Reps Levin, Peters, and Rogers, as well as Senators Levin and Stabenow. “Putting these tools in the hands of our officers improves our ability to identify and arrest offenders,” said Joe Sullivan, Director of CLEMIS. “Evidence collected can be shared across agencies to ensure that officers are aware of every lead when trying to solve a crime.” “The Justice Department reports that 40% of crime scenes contain palm print evidence,” said Rep. Levin. “The new technology that this funding will purchase for CLEMIS will allow law enforcement officials to collect and share this evidence, effectively solving more crimes.” “This investment will help make Oakland County safer by facilitating communication and information sharing between hundreds of law enforcement agencies across Southeast Michigan,” said Rep. Peters. “In particular, these funds will streamline officer communication, enhance criminal identification and bring more criminals to justice. Public safety budgets have been particularly strained in recent years and we must continue to work together to secure targeted criminal justice investments such as these.” The funding will be used to upgrade the CLEMIS palm print system, streamline the LiveID application to over 3,500 patrol vehicles in the field, and purchase 62 portable biometric identification devices. CLEMIS promotes communication and sharing of criminal justice information by serving as a technical link among the multiple law enforcement agencies of Oakland County. (####)
12.10.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed the Consolidated Appropriations bill today by a vote of 221 to 202. The measure, which combines 6 of the 12 annual funding bills, includes several projects requested by Congressman Sander Levin, along with other members of the Michigan delegation, that directly benefit Macomb County. “These projects will translate directly into Macomb County community improvements in business, recreation, and safety.” said Rep. Levin. “These are tough times for Michigan families and local communities and these targeted funds will help boost important local projects.” Macomb-Oakland University INCubator ($100,000). Since officially opening its doors in July 2009, the INCubator has provided business development assistance to local companies across the defense, alternative energy and advanced manufacturing targeted sectors. These clients include both early stage companies and mature companies interested in pursuing diversification projects. Rep. Levin has assisted in the development of the INCubator for the past several years, having helped secure $667,000 in previous federal appropriations funding to get the project started. Additionally, the INCubator is supported by a $250,000 grant from the Michigan Economic Development Corporation, a $30,000 annual commitment from the City of Sterling Heights, $50,000 in in-kind support from Oakland University, and more than $55,000 in private support from local businesses. The additional funding was requested by Reps Levin and Miller and will be used to fund operations. Macomb County Bike Trail (Rep. Levin $575,000; Rep. Candice Miller $250,000; Senators Levin and Stabenow $1.94 million). Funding will replace a deteriorated sidewalk with pedestrian and bike trails on the east side of North-bound Gratiot Avenue, from Shady Side Drive to Cass Avenue. The trail will allow more neighborhoods in Mount Clemens pedestrian access to the downtown area for shopping, as well as to both Shady Side Park and the region-wide Metropolitan Parkway Bike Trail for exercising and day vacation trips. While funding for these particular improvements was requested by Rep. Levin, the Consolidated Appropriations bill also included $1.94 million in funding requested by Senators Levin and Stabenow, as well as $250,000 requested by Rep. Candice Miller, for the Macomb County region-wide loop. Centralized Dispatch for Macomb County Emergency Management & Communications ($500,000). Funding will be used to purchase, upgrade, and install communications equipment to help consolidate duplicate dispatch services for 3 EMS agencies, 24 fire agencies, and 18 police departments throughout Macomb County. The funding was requested by Rep. Levin, Senator Levin, and Senator Stabenow. Renovation and Repair at Selfridge Air National Guard Base ($6.2 million). The funding will be used to renovate and repair Building 34 at Selfridge Air National Guard Base. Building 34 was originally constructed in 1988, and currently houses the 127th Wing's A-10 Squadron Operations and a portion of the Survival Equipment function. Existing interior areas are not properly configured. Existing electrical, mechanical, roofing, and support systems are quickly approaching their useful life expectancy and are insufficient to accommodate the needed facility expansion. Current facility accommodations, and the significant resulting space deficiencies and geographic sprawl, negatively impact the daily mission accomplishment of these critical A-10 Operations and Maintenance functions. The funding was requested by Reps. Levin and Miller, as well as Senators Levin and Stabenow. *Note: There were additional Macomb County projects authored by Representative Miller, Senator Levin, and Senator Stabenow included in the legislation. Representative Levin posts all project requests, commonly known as “earmarks,” on his website for public scrutiny as soon as they are submitted. After submission, the Appropriations Committee goes through a thorough review process and publishes lists of all accepted projects. The appropriations bills are then brought to the Floor of the House where they can be amended and voted on. The legislation passed today included the funding bills for the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Health and Human Services, the State Department, the Department of Justice, and the Treasury Department. The House of Representatives approved all of these bills over the summer as stand-alone measures, but the Senate has been tied up debating health care reform and was unable to complete action on all of the appropriations bills for fiscal year 2010, which began on October 1st. Three months into the fiscal year, the leaders of the House and Senate elected to combine six funding bills into one package in order to speed final action on these measures. The programs covered by these funding bills include the Social Security Administration, NASA, education program, low-income energy assistance, local law enforcement, the National Institutes of Health and Centers for Disease Control, elementary and secondary education, military construction, and veterans housing, among many others. (####)
12.09.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed the Tax Extenders Act of 2009 today to provide individuals and businesses with approximately $31 billion in tax relief. The legislation extends for one year more than forty provisions that are scheduled to expire at the end of 2009. This includes $5 billion in individual tax relief, $17 billion in business tax relief, and $7 billion of tax provisions that encourage charitable contributions, provide community development incentives, provide tax relief in the event of disasters, and support the deployment of alternative vehicles and alternative fuels. The Tax Extenders Act of 2009 passed by a vote of 241 to 181. “Today’s legislation keeps in place vital tax provisions that promote research and development, provide an incentive to purchase heavy duty hybrid vehicles, and encourage business food donations to pantries, among a variety of other things,” said Rep. Levin. “The legislation is also essential to give families and businesses more certainty for the year ahead.” The legislation does not add to the deficit and offsets the tax relief by putting a stop to billions of dollars worth of tax abuse through overseas tax havens and ending the special preferential tax treatment for carried interest given to fund managers as compensation. The latter proposal, which was authored by Rep. Levin, ends the practice by which the managers of private investment partnerships are able to receive compensation for their services at the much lower capital gains tax rate rather that the ordinary income tax rate by virtue of their fund’s partnership structure. “This is a basic issue of fairness,” said Rep. Levin. “Fund managers are receiving compensation for managing their investors’ money. They should not pay the 15% capital gains rate on their compensation when millions of other hard-working Americans, many of whose income is performance-based, pay ordinary rates of up to 35%.” The carried interest provision clarifies that any income received from a partnership, capital or otherwise, in compensation for services provided by the employee is subject to ordinary tax rates. As a result, the managers of investment partnerships who receive a carried interest as compensation will pay regular income tax rates rather than capital gains rates on that compensation. The capital gains rate will continue to apply to the extent that the managers’ income represents a reasonable return on capital they have actually invested themselves in the partnership. For a fact sheet on the tax extender provisions click here. For a fact sheet on Rep. Levin’s carried interest provision click here. (####)
12.08.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin introduced legislation today to eliminate capital gains tax on investments in qualified small business stock during 2010. The proposal was included in President Obama’s 2010 budget and reiterated as part of a jobs package in his speech today at the Brookings Institute. The legislation would build on the Recovery Act, which included a 75% exclusion from capital gains tax for qualified investments in 2009 and 2010. “Too many small businesses are struggling to obtain access to capital in the current environment,” said Rep. Levin. “We have to continue to find ways to encourage banks to make more loans, but equity financing is also part of the solution. Many small businesses are ready to make investments and create jobs, but cannot access needed capital.” This legislation would expand the capital gains exclusion for qualified small business stock to 100% and eliminate the applicability of the AMT for such stock acquired in 2010. This will provide a strong incentive for timely equity investments in qualified small businesses. (####)
12.04.2009	(Washington D.C.)- A report released yesterday reaffirmed Representative Joe Courtney’s (D-CT) and Rep. Sandy Levin’s (D-MI) opposition to the Senate’s proposed excise tax on high-cost health plans in any health care reform legislation. The report was conducted by Mercer, a global human resources consultancy that has conducted a comprehensive annual survey of employers to collect information on employer health plans for over 20 years. The independent study demonstrates that the excise tax on high-cost health care plans will have a negative impact on middle class and working families and found that nearly two-thirds of employers would cut covered benefits to avoid paying the tax. Representative Courtney stated, “This study concludes what we have been saying all along, that there is a fundamental flaw in the Senate’s proposed excise tax, and it unfairly raises the cost of health care plans for working families. This most recent report indicates that many employers would choose to cut benefits rather than pay any excise tax, which undermines the principals behind health care reform and providing all Americans with quality and affordable health care coverage.” Representative Levin stated, “Health care reform should be about improving benefits, not cutting them. The results of this survey show that a majority of employers would respond to the tax by cutting benefits and increasing costs for workers. Some analysts have argued that employers will increase wages to the same degree that they decrease health benefits, but this report found that 84% of employers do not expect to raise wages to compensate for reduced benefits.” Currently under consideration in the Senate’s health care reform proposal is an excise tax on high-cost health plans. Under the Senate’s proposal, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590), a 40% excise tax would apply to individual plans that exceed $8,500 and to family plans that exceed $23,000. For employees that work in high risk fields and retirees over the age of 55, the 40% excise tax will apply to individual plans that exceed $9,850 and $26,000 for family plans. Click here for a copy of the Mercer report The independent Mercer report states what conventional wisdom would suggest about the proposed excise tax: health care costs will be shifted to employees by cutting benefits. The survey, which polled 465 employers in small, mid-sized, and large firms, stated that 63 percent of respondent would cut health benefits to avoid the Senate’s proposed excise tax on high-cost insurance plans. The survey went on to state that 23 percent of respondents reported that they would maintain their current plan, but pass along the cost of the tax to their employees. 7% reported that they would terminate the plan completely. 75 percent of those that reported that they would cut benefits as a result of the excise tax said they would accomplish this by raising insurance deductibles and copays. Even more concerning than cost-shifting to employees as a result of the tax, the survey confirmed that these cuts will not likely be made up with higher pay. According to the survey, only 16 percent of respondents said they would pass along cost savings from less expensive employee health insurance plans into higher pay. While the response from large employers indicates that a minority will implement cost-efficiency measures to bring down the price of their plans, the study shows that in the vast majority of cases the burden of this tax will fall on employees in the form of higher costs and reduced benefits. Mercer conducts a comprehensive annual survey of employers to collect information on employer health plans, including costs and cost management, plan provisions, strategic planning, and scope and limitations of coverage. Mercer also conducts ad hoc surveys on timely topics, including this most recent survey on health care reform. On October 7, 2009 Representative Courtney spearheaded a letter to Speaker Pelosi in opposition to an excise tax on high-cost health care benefit plans. Congressman Courtney was joined by 186 colleagues that signed onto the letter. Congressman Levin has been a leading vocal opponent of the Senate’s proposed excise tax in the House. Additionally, at the request of Representative Courtney the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) released a report on October 20, 2009 that also confirmed the damaging effects of the Senate proposed excise tax on middle class and working families. (####)
12.03.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Energy announced today the release of $39 million to six states for state-run energy efficient appliance rebate programs. Michigan and Ohio received the largest allocations from today’s disbursement with Michigan’s program totaling $9,598,000. The state estimates that this will provide over 114,000 rebates for clothes washers, refrigerators, dishwashers, and other appliances. The Department of Energy’s release of the funding means these six states’ appliance rebate plans have been approved. For most states, the appliance rebate programs will not begin until next year. “The rebates granted through this funding will assist Michigan consumers in making their homes more energy efficient,” said Rep. Levin. “At the same time, the rebates, by increasing sales, will boost manufacturing jobs and help the environment.” The funding is part of $300 million that the Department of Energy is allocating through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for State-run rebate programs for consumer purchases of new energy efficient home appliances. (####)
12.02.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Led by Subcommittee Chairman Jim McDermott, Representative Levin and other members of the Ways and Means Committee joined together to introduce legislation to extend eligibility for federal unemployment insurance programs so that those who exhaust regular benefits or lose their jobs next year will be eligible for the emergency unemployment measures which were created last year and through the Recovery Act. Provisions, which provide up to 99 weeks of unemployment insurance, as well as a $25 addition to unemployment checks, are set to expire at the end of the year. Once emergency programs expire, approximately 30,000 people per day will exhaust their benefits, reaching three million by the end of March. “In the face of 6 job seekers for every available job and the highest level of long-term unemployment since 1948, it is vital that we extend the emergency unemployment program," said Rep. Levin. “While we focus our efforts on spurring job growth, the unemployment program is there for families to make ends meet and weather these difficult times.” Unemployed workers in Michigan are currently eligible for up to 99 weeks of unemployment insurance through a combination of extensions and federal support provisions, the first of which was passed in June of 2008. However, all extensions and federal support are currently scheduled to end at the end of the year. This would mean that workers currently collecting benefits would not receive all the benefits to which they are entitled and that those who lose their job next year would only receive the standard state unemployment benefit. The legislation introduced today would push back the expiration date of the emergency unemployment compensation program and federal support for extended benefits to March 31st, 2011. In addition the legislation extends the $25 increase added to unemployment checks by the Recovery Act until this date. Every dollar spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.63 in economic activity, according to Moody’s chief economist Mark Zandi. The Recovery Act also provided a nine month COBRA subsidy to assist unemployed workers remain on their former employer’s health insurance. Using the subsidy, eligible unemployed workers need to pay only 35 percent of their total premiums to continue the health coverage that they had through their jobs, and the federal government reimburses employers or health plans for the remaining 65 percent of premiums. “We must also extend eligibility for the COBRA subsidy that we established in the Recovery Act which makes health insurance affordable for unemployed workers. Losing your job should not result in losing your health insurance and until we enact comprehensive health care reform, we must take steps to support those struggling to maintain affordable coverage,” Rep. Levin concluded. (####)
12.02.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin issued the following statement after President Obama’s address on the war in Afghanistan. “After 8 years of a failed policy, the President basically had two difficult alternatives: to withdraw from the effort to stabilize conditions in this key area, or to put together a new plan. “The President has chosen the path of a new plan. Its foundation is that the U.S. has a national security interest in preventing the Taliban from retaking control of Afghanistan which would allow terrorists lead by Al Qaeda to use it again as a base to launch attacks on our nation or to create further instability next door in nuclear-armed Pakistan. “The plan is built on two pillars: military efforts alone will not create stability, and without a more effective military effort, the necessary non-military progress vital to security is unlikely to succeed. “I agree that key to the success of the new plan is that increased U.S. and allied troop levels must focus on training adequate Afghan forces to take control of the security of their own nation and that to increase the pressure on Afghanistan to do that, the U.S. troop commitment must not be open-ended so that after 18 months, U.S. troops will begin to come home.” (####)
11.30.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin submitted the following testimony today to the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations which held a field hearing at Lawrence Technological University in Southfield. The Congressional panel received witness testimony on small businesses’ struggle to secure loans and smaller financial institutions lack of access to capital during the current economic downturn. Statement Submitted by Representative Sander LevinHouse Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and InvestigationsField Hearing Entitled: “Improving Responsible Lending to Small Businesses”November 30, 2009, Southfield, Michigan Chairman Moore, Ranking Member Biggert and Members of the Subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity to submit a statement for this important hearing. The examination of issues regarding access to capital is essential to our economic recovery. Everywhere I go in Southeast Michigan I hear from businesses large and small, from real estate to automotive, who say they are working day and night to maintain and even grow their business, but they cannot get a loan. The story has become all too familiar: a firm has been in business for years, often for two generations or more, has been with the same bank for years and developed a strong credit record. But as both the business and the bank have suffered through the recession, the bank cuts the line of credit, or calls an outstanding loan or substantially tightens terms. And just as the business needs extra credit to survive the downturn, or buy materials to resume production or hire back workers, or take advantage of reduced asset prices to start a new development, the needed credit is just not there. Most of our local financial institutions are doing their best to support their customers and neighbors, but we continue to hear horror stories about regional and national banks that seem to be running from Michigan just as fast as they can. Indeed, I have heard time and time again from investors and other business persons long active with impeccable business credentials that they believe that when it comes to extending credit, Michigan is being “redlined.” I understand that there must be some contraction of credit reflecting lower collateral values and other factors, but something is very wrong when financial institutions, many of which have received massive funds from the Federal Government, are denying credit to reliable entities anxious to extend their business operations in Michigan. This rush to exit a community and an auto industry that have been very good to these banks over the years is deeply troubling, and risks a self-fulfilling prophecy in which these large banks refusal to extend credit unnecessarily undermines the viability of their customer. Manufacturing is capital intensive, and the surest way to push a manufacturing business under is to deny them the capital necessary to buy materials and maintain equipment. Indeed, in testimony before the Subcommittee today, Dave Andrea of the Original Equipment Suppliers Association points out that an automotive suppliers banking relationship may be a better predictor of its survival than the fundamentals of its business. Most of our local financial institutions are doing their best to support their customers, but they’ve been hurt by the recession and financial crisis as well. We need to do more in Washington to support their efforts. I hope that this hearing can help cement the consensus that seems to be emerging around some proposals, such as increasing SBA loan limits. I also hope that it will provide some new and creative ideas about how Michigan businesses can gain access to badly needed capital. The Michigan Economic Development Corporation has done excellent work in developing a model to support auto supplier diversification that I believe can be adapted to a national program. As a member of the Ways and Means committee, I look forward to working with the Financial Services Committee to follow-up on the testimony heard today and tackle a problem that we know is hindering our State and Nation’s economic recovery. (####)
11.18.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Labor announced today that Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio are the recipients of a $4 million State Labor Market Information Improvement Grant. The grant will allow the relevant state agencies, including Michigan’s Department of Labor and Economic Growth, to collect data on where job growth is occurring and what skills are needed to obtain those jobs. The study will have an emphasis on locating career path opportunities for displaced auto workers in energy efficiency and renewable energy industries. The funding for the grant was provided through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “We need to take additional steps to grow jobs and as we do so we must ensure that training programs are effective for workers transitioning to completely new lines of work,” said Rep. Levin. “This grant will also help to flush out the workforce needs of the ‘green’ jobs market so we can attract these jobs to Michigan.” The tri-state grant will be used to examine four key areas: Auto Industry Transformation – including the identification of new skills and requirements in a restructured auto industry; Supply Chain Transformation – examining and understanding the new demands and skills within this industry; Alternative Career Pathways – including using jobs in the green economy to help identify alternative career pathways for dislocated auto and auto parts workers; and Skills Gap Analysis – identifying the current and projected skill gaps of the auto workforce, as well as the necessary training needed to transition into green occupations and other high demand sectors. The State Labor Market Information (LMI) Improvement grant program supports the analysis of labor market data to assess economic activity in energy efficiency and renewable energy industries, and identify occupations and skill requirements within those industries. These grants invest in state and consortium models designed to collect, analyze, and disseminate labor market information, and enhance the labor exchange infrastructure for careers within energy efficiency and renewable energy fields. State Workforce Agencies use this information as the foundation on which to build and implement effective workforce development strategies. Multiple State Workforce Agencies partnering as a consortium use the program to gather information that may have a regional, multi]State, or national impact. (####)
11.07.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin just spoke on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the Health Care Reform legislation. Below are his remarks: “Most Americans want: To keep the insurance they have and not lose it because of skyrocketing costs To be sure they are not denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions To be sure if they have a major illness, they are not bankrupted by unaffordable costs Most Americans also want other citizens to have their health care needs covered by insurance. Democratic health care reform responds to these concerns and -- like Social Security and Medicare -- is as American as apple pie. Consider this letter from a constituent of mine from Fraser, Michigan: ‘I am ashamed to let my family and friends know that I have no health insurance. I have refused hospital treatment I know I needed because I could not afford to pay for any type of medical procedure.’ She closes her letter with this simple message: ‘Please don’t let anything or anyone stop you from reforming health care. I hope you will think of me. I need you to do the right thing. Health care for all Americans now.’ That is what we are doing…Health care for all Americans now.” (####)
11.06.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, released a letter today to U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk urging that more be done to open South Korean and Japanese automobile markets. During recent Korean and Japanese auto incentive programs, similar to the “Cash for Clunkers” program, market share for all foreign brands declined even further. The letter was signed by Senators Levin and Stabenow; Ways and Means Chairman Charles Rangel; Reps. Dingell, Upton, Ehlers, Kildee, McCotter, Peters, Sutton and Miller. “For years, the markets in South Korea and Japan have tilted toward their domestic automakers due to numerous trade barriers,” said Rep. Levin. “A level playing field was not evident in the respective ‘Clunkers’ programs and rigorous action is necessary to open these markets to U.S. autos.” Text of the letter is below: The Honorable Ronald KirkUnited States Trade RepresentativeOffice of the U.S. Trade Representative600 17th Street, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20508 Dear Ambassador Kirk: It is time for South Korea and Japan to treat U.S. and other automakers fairly. As highlighted by South Korea’s and Japan’s version of “Cash for Clunkers,” market share for all foreign brand autos in these two countries has been extremely low. In fact, foreign market share has declined even further, contemporaneously with the implementation of their auto incentive programs. We therefore urge you to work to open both markets so that American auto companies can compete against South Korean and Japanese automakers on a level playing field. For years, South Korea has used a menu of rotating non-tariff barriers to keep foreign autos out of its domestic market. As a result, South Korea has competed with Japan for the lowest rate of foreign auto market penetration among the 30 industrialized countries who are members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). In recent months, foreign market share has decreased markedly in South Korea from 5.3 percent in 2008 to only 4.5 percent in the first seven months of 2009. This drop appears to coincide with South Korea’s implementation of its version of a “Cash for Clunkers” program. Under their program, an owner of a car at least 10 years old receives significant tax breaks if they trade their car in and buy a new one. At the very least, the South Korean program perpetuates the discriminatory treatment that foreign automakers face in the South Korean market. In other words, because there are so few foreign autos available for sale in South Korea, domestic automakers are by and large the only car makers benefitting from the government’s “Cash for Clunkers” program. South Korea, in turn, exports more than 70 percent of its total auto production to the United States and the rest of the world. In 2008, South Korea exported 616,000 cars and light trucks to the United States, but imported just 10,377 cars and light trucks from the United States. The result: 78 percent of the United States’ $13.4 billion 2008 trade deficit with South Korea was in autos, trucks and parts. The recent decline in foreign market share also reinforces points made in comments submitted to the Federal Register regarding the United States – South Korea Free Trade Agreement: the trade pact must be modified to address the non-tariff barriers used by the South Korean government to shut U.S. automakers out of the market. We urge you to consider the March 2, 2007, Auto Caucus proposal, which proposes modifications to the trade pact that will help ensure that U.S. autos get fair market access to the South Korean market. As noted above, historically, Japan has had one of the two lowest rates of foreign auto market penetration among OECD members. For years, the foreign market share of Japan’s auto market has been at or below 5 percent. Most disturbingly, that already-low share has been shrinking for the past two years, falling from 5.0 percent in 2007 to 4.3 percent in 2008, to only 3.9 percent in the first seven months of 2009. Like South Korea, the decline in foreign market share in the Japanese market seems to coincide with the implementation of Japan’s auto purchase incentive program. Under the initiative, varying incentives are available to consumers purchasing vehicles that meet certain fuel economy criteria. However, incentives are not available for the purchase of vehicles entering the market through the “Preferential Handling Procedure (PHP),” which includes most foreign autos, including U.S. autos. Thus, while 87 percent of Japanese autos are eligible for the program, only 38 percent of foreign autos – and no U.S. autos – are eligible. For instance, while a consumer can use the incentives to purchase a Toyota Land Cruiser, a consumer cannot use them to buy a Ford Explorer. Unsurprisingly, the program’s major benefactors are thus Japanese automakers. By comparison, consistent with our trade obligations, all foreign autos were potentially eligible for the U.S. Cash for Clunkers program. As such, South Korean and Japanese automakers benefitted accordingly from the initiative. These facts clearly demonstrate the level playing field and fair market access that the United States affords foreign autos and we urge you to take the appropriate action to ensure that U.S. automakers enjoy the same level playing field and fair market access. Market access issues relating to South Korea and Japan are not new. In fact, some of us have been raising these issues for decades. The problem is that both South Korea and Japan persist in shutting U.S. autos out of their domestic markets. Under any circumstances, this would be extremely troublesome. But especially now, given the current economic crisis, the Obama Administration must do everything it can to ensure U.S. auto exports can compete on a level playing field. Provided that opportunity, we are confident that American automakers can succeed in these markets. We therefore urge you to take all steps necessary to open the South Korean and Japanese markets to U.S. autos. (####)
11.05.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation which extends unemployment insurance up to 20 weeks for jobless workers who have exhausted their previous extensions. Additionally, the legislation extends and expands the availability of the homebuyer tax credit and provides tax relief for businesses hard hit by the recession. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act passed by a vote of 403 to 12. The President is expected to sign the measure into law. “The action today responds to the needs of 100,000 in Michigan and one million people nationwide who have exhausted their benefits or will have exhausted them by the end of the year,” said Rep. Levin. “With six people competing for every available job, unemployed workers need insurance to feed their families and pay their bills.” The legislation extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program by providing families in all states with 14 weeks of additional benefits and six more weeks to states with high unemployment rates, such as Michigan. Without action, more than 1 million people nationwide, and 99,000 in Michigan, will have exhausted the previous unemployment benefits extensions before the end of the year. In Michigan, an estimated 50,000 unemployed workers have already exhausted the previous extensions. The bill includes an extension of the $8,000 first-time homebuyer tax credit through April 30, 2010 and also provides a $6,500 credit to homebuyers who have lived in their current residence for five years or more. Further, the measure allows U.S. companies to carry back losses incurred in either 2008 or 2009 against income earned in any of the five prior years, providing cash to make investments and retain employees at a time when many face difficulty accessing credit. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation program is currently set to expire at the end of the year. Congress is expected to take up legislation to push back the expiration date in the near future. “Now that we have acted on the extension, we must quickly take up legislation to continue the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program itself, otherwise millions will be left without this important insurance come January,” concluded Rep. Levin. Extending unemployment benefits provides immediate economic benefit to the local economy as every dollar spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.63 in economic activity, according to Moody’s chief economist Mark Zandi. (####)
11.04.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to prevent credit card companies from instituting unfair practices by moving forward the effective date for previously passed reforms. Congressman Levin is an original co-sponsor of the legislation, which passed by a vote of 331 to 92. “Earlier this year Congress passed landmark credit card reform legislation to put an end to the unfair and abusive credit card practices that outrage so many families across Michigan,” said Rep. Levin. “Some of the reforms were set to take effect early next year, but the credit card companies have used the time since the bill was signed to impose new rate increases and make other detrimental changes. The legislation passed today will move up the effective date to prevent further abuse.” In the first half of the year, interest rates climbed an average of 20 percent on credit cards representing more than 90 percent of outstanding balances, according to Pew Charitable Trusts. Congressman Levin’s office received numerous complaints from constituents who have experienced rate increases and other unexpected changes to card member agreements, in some cases on credit card accounts that do not even have an existing balance. Andrea Nelson, a resident of Ferndale, received notice of a rate hike on her credit card not long after the credit card reform legislation was signed into law. “I couldn’t believe that my rate would shoot up like that,” said Ms. Nelson. “I cancelled that card, but just paying off the balance while also paying tuition and the rest of my living expenses has been a tremendous strain. Credit card companies just shouldn’t be able to treat people like that.” Under the previously passed legislation, reforms were implemented at three different dates to allow credit card companies time to prepare for the changes. The Expedited Card Reform for Consumers Act, H.R. 3639, will move the nine-month (February 22, 2010) and 15-month (August 22, 2010) implementation dates up to the date H.R. 3639 is signed by the President. These reforms include an end to arbitrary rate increases, excessive “over-the-limit” fees, and the deceptive practice of applying payments to balances at the lowest rates first. Additionally, the prohibition on issuing cards to vulnerable minors without a cosigner is moved forward. More information on new credit card reforms: The following requirements became effective on August 20, 2009:• Provide increased written notice to consumers of any increases in the interest rate or other significant changes to the terms of a credit card account• Inform consumers of their right to cancel the card before the rate hike goes into effect• Send statements to consumers 21 days before the due date of any payments The following provisions were originally set to become effective on February 22,2010, but would be moved forward under this legislation:• Prohibits arbitrary interest rate increases and universal default on existing balances• Prohibits issuers from charging over-limit fees unless the cardholder elects to allow the issuer to complete over-limit transactions, and also limits over-limit fees on electing cardholders• Requires payments in excess of the minimum to be applied first to the credit card balance with the highest rate of interest• Prohibits issuers from setting early morning deadlines for credit card payments• Prohibits interest charges on debt paid on time (doublecycle billing ban)• Requires issuers extending credit to young consumers under the age of 21 to obtain an application that contains: the signature of a parent, guardian, or other individual 21 yearsor older who will take responsibility for the debt; or proof that the applicant has an independent means of repaying any credit extended• Protects recipients of gift cards by requiring all gift cards to have at least a five-year life span, and eliminates the practice of declining values and hidden fees for those cards notused within a reasonable period of time The following provisions were originally set to become effective on August 22,2010, but would be moved forward under this legislation:• Requires penalty fees to be reasonable and proportional to the omission or violation• Requires that creditors periodically review all interest rate increases since January 2009 and reduce rates when a review indicates that a reduction is warranted.• Amends the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to limit dormancy, inactivity, and service fees associated with gift cards. (####)
11.04.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin released the following statement regarding Senate passage of an extension to emergency unemployment compensation. “Now that the Senate has acted, the House is preparing to take up this legislation tomorrow. An estimated 50,000 people in Michigan have already exhausted their previous extensions of benefits. By the end of the year, an estimated 1.3 million people nationwide will have exhausted the current extension. We must act so these families will have this important insurance restored. “In addition to extending unemployment compensation, this legislation recognizes that our housing markets are still fragile and extends the first time homebuyer credit into next year and makes it available to more homebuyers. It also provides relief to businesses that have been hit hard by the current economic downturn, providing cash to make investments and retain employees at a time when many face difficulty accessing credit.” (####)
10.29.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House approved legislation today to provide $475 million for a new Great Lakes restoration effort. The funding, approved as part of the annual funding bill for the Department of the Interior and Environmental Protection Agency, passed the House by a vote of 247 to 178. The Senate is expected to approve the measure in the near future, clearing the legislation for President Obama's signature. “The Michigan Delegation has been fighting for years to win this kind of restoration money,” said Rep. Levin. “The difference this time is that we now have a President who cares about the Great Lakes." Rep. Levin added, "This is a good day for the Great Lakes, but long term restoration of the Lakes will require a sustained effort at the federal, state and local level." At the urging of Rep. Levin and others in the Michigan Congressional Delegation, the EPA bill includes the full $475 million requested by President Obama for a new Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. This initiative will begin to address longstanding problems in the Great Lakes, including invasive species, non-point pollution, habitat and fisheries loss, and contaminated sediment. The legislation also includes $2.1 billion in federal assistance to help states and localities finance and build clean water infrastructure projects through the Clean Water State Revolving Fund. This is a significant increase in federal clean water assistance to states. Michigan's share is expected to be in the neighborhood of $100 million. The legislation stipulates that at least 30 percent of each state's federal allocation be used for eligible projects in the form of a grant, negative interest loan, or principal forgiveness, saving localities money at a time when budgets are already stretched thin. Also included in the legislation is a $500,000 federal contribution to help with repairs to the Oakland-Macomb Interceptor submitted by Reps. Levin and Miller, as well as by Senators Levin and Stabenow. The assistance was requested by the drain commissioners of both Oakland and Macomb Counties. The Interceptor is a 21 mile sewer that is the sole conduit that transports sanitary sewage from over 300,000 residents of Oakland and Macomb Counties to the City of Detroit for treatment. Ownership of the Interceptor was recently transferred from the City of Detroit to Oakland and Macomb Counties as part of a far reaching water infrastructure settlement. The Interceptor is approximately 40 years old and is in need of extensive and costly repairs. (####)
10.29.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House Democratic Caucus released the Affordable Health Care for America Act, legislation to lower health costs, expand access to care, and bring new competition and fairness to the insurance market. Congressman Levin made the following statement regarding the legislation. “This Act provides a major breakthrough after decades of inaction on comprehensive health care reform. Where our present system works, this reform builds on it, maintaining the commitment we made from the beginning: if you like the coverage you have, you’ll be able to keep it. “At the same time, reform makes pioneering improvements where the present system is broken: reining in escalating costs that are making health insurance increasingly unaffordable; providing choices for the 45 million Americans who lack insurance and shift the cost of their care to others; eliminating defects in the quality of care; and ending private insurance abuses, including denial of coverage because of a pre-existing condition and discrimination due to age or gender. “The legislation creates a new health insurance exchange where people who don’t get insurance from their employers will have access to a wide range of affordable health care choices. These choices will include a range of private plans and a public option, which will increase competition and help drive down costs. The bill also takes important steps to update our payment system to improve coordination of care. “For seniors, the legislation specifically strengthens Medicare by lowering prescription drug costs and eliminating copayments for preventive care.” To view a copy of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, H.R. 3926, click here. To view a bill summary, detailed fact sheets and more information on what the health insurance reform will mean for America, click here. Quick Facts on Health Care in Michigan • 11 percent of people in Michigan are uninsured, and 76 percent of them are in families with at least one full-time worker. • Since 2000 alone, average family premiums have increased by 77 percent in Michigan. • High costs block access to care: 12 percent of people in Michigan report not visiting a doctor due to high costs. (####)
10.27.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the passing of Leonard Haggerty. “I am deeply saddened by the news of Leonard Haggerty’s passing. Leonard always greeted everyone with a warm smile. He had an indomitable spirit that lifted up his community and all of us privileged to know and work with him.” (####)
10.27.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Levin made the following statement regarding the announcement that Tenneco, Inc. had been awarded a $24 million conditional loan commitment as part of the section 136 loan program. “This first loan to an automotive supplier under the section 136 loan program underscores the important role the supply base plays in the auto industry. On average, two-thirds of the value of a vehicle is produced by suppliers, making the work done by Tenneco and others crucial to propelling our state forward in advanced vehicle development. This award also highlights the vital role of the talented engineers in Michigan whose work to design, engineer and produce emission control components will be funded by this loan. Going forward, the automotive companies, suppliers, and federal government must continue to work together to ensure the next generation of vehicles are designed and built here in the United States.” More information from the Department of Energy on the award is available here: https://www.energy.gov/news2009/8218.htm (####)
10.27.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Chairmen of the House Ways and Means Committee and Senate Finance Committee, along with senior committee members, unveiled a comprehensive proposal today to clamp down on offshore tax evasion by giving the IRS new tools to detect, deter and discourage offshore tax abuses. Representative Levin is a member of the Ways and Means Committee and original co-sponsor of the legislation. “It is too easy today for someone to avoid paying their taxes by hiding behind foreign bank accounts,” said Rep. Levin. “These evaders pocket tens of billions of dollars while honest taxpayers are left holding the bill. This legislation reflects years of work by, among others, my brother Carl to highlight the problem of offshore tax havens. While we need to continue to look for additional ways to stop offshore tax abuse, this bill says very simply to foreign banks that if they want access to US markets they must report the same information on US customers that US banks do.” The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act would force foreign financial institutions, foreign trusts, and foreign corporations to provide information about their U.S. accountholders, grantors, and owners, respectively. The nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated the provisions of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act would prevent U.S. individuals from evading $8.5 billion in U.S. tax over the next ten years. Important measures in the proposal include: The bill requires 30% withholding on payments to foreign financial institutions and other entities unless they acknowledge the accounts’ existence to the IRS and disclose relevant information including account ownership, balances and amounts moving in and out of the accounts. Individuals and entities would be required to report offshore accounts with values of $50,000 or more on their tax returns. The statute of limitations will be extended to six years when offshore accounts are unreported or misreported. Advisors who help to set up offshore accounts would be required to disclose their activities or pay a penalty. The proposal would also require electronic filing of information reports about withholding on transfers to foreign accounts to enable the IRS to better match reports to tax returns. The bill strengthens rules and penalties with regard to foreign trusts, including rules to determine whether distributions from foreign trusts are going to U.S. beneficiaries and reporting requirements on U.S. transfers to foreign trusts. The legislation clarifies that U.S. dividend payments received by foreign persons are treated as dividends even when couched as another type of distribution in an effort to avoid U.S. taxes. A Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) technical explanation of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act of 2009 from is available on their website here: https://jct.gov/. (####)
10.26.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Energy announced today funding for 37 advanced energy research projects including a $2.6 million project at General Motors to develop technology to convert waste heat from car engines into electricity at the GM Technical Center in Warren. This could result in vehicles that are significantly more efficient. “There is so much potential in Michigan’s engineering base, car companies, and universities to develop new and innovate ways to make our vehicles more energy efficient,” said Rep. Levin. “Today’s announcement reaffirms that the federal government will be an active partner in providing the seed money needed to launch these technologies forward.” Also as part of the today’s announcement, Michigan State University won a $2.5 million grant to develop the wave disc engine, a gas-fueled electric generator that is five times more efficient than traditional engines for electricity production, as well as lighter and cheaper to manufacture. This technology could replace current generators for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. A full list of grants awarded in today’s $151 million announcement is available here: https://energy.gov/sites/prod/files/edg/news/documents/ARPA-E_Project_Selections.pdf In 2005, a National Academies of Sciences (NAS) report was released that was entitled, “Rising Above the Gathering Storm.” The final NAS report expressed deep concern “that the scientific and technological building blocks critical to our economic leadership are eroding at a time when many other nations are gathering strength.” One of the key research recommendations was to create within the Department of Energy an organization like the Defense Research Projects Agency (DARPA) called the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). DARPA was established in 1958 in response to the launch of Sputnik to quickly turn innovative technology into military capabilities. DARPA is credited for its work involving the Internet, stealth technology, smart bombs, and robotics. After the release of the NAS study, Congressman Levin cosponsored legislation introduced by the Chairman of the House Science and Technology Committee, Rep. Gordon of Tennessee, to create the ARPA-E program. Congress later established the ARPA-E program as part of the America Competes Act of 2007. Modeled on the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the goal of ARPA-E is to sponsor creative, transformational energy research in those areas where industry by itself cannot or will not undertake such sponsorship, where risks and pay-offs are high. This is the first round of projects funded under ARPA-E, which is receiving total of $400 million under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. (####)
10.22.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Health and Human Services announced the release of $2.7 billion in grant funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) today. The funding, which is for the remaining months of the year, will be used to help eligible families pay the costs of heating and insulating their homes this winter. “With winter coming on, many families already coping with strained budgets will now be faced with mounting heating costs,” said Rep. Levin, a long-time supporter of LIHEAP. “We need to make sure people get the assistance they need to heat their homes.” Michigan will receive $151 million for funding through the end of the year. In Michigan, the LIHEAP grant is used for: Home Heating Credit – a tax credit issued to all low-income households. The Michigan Department of Treasury determines eligibility and makes the payments. An eligible person does not need to file a state income tax return to receive the Home Heating Credit and can apply for the Home Heating Credit only. Eligibility is based on income, number of exemptions and household heating costs. State Emergency Relief - a crisis intervention program to provide a wide range of non-energy and energy-related emergency services. The SER program is administered by the Department of Human Services (DHS). An application is needed to request assistance and an appointment is generally required. To apply, a person can contact the local DHS office in their county. SER provides services such as payment for heating fuel, electricity and home repairs. Eligibility is based on need, income and assets. Weatherization Assistance Program - provides free home energy conservation services to low-income Michigan homeowners and renters. These services reduce energy use and lower utility bills, thus creating more self-sufficient households. Services are typically administered by local Community Action Agencies such as the Macomb County Community Services Agency and the Oakland Livingston Human Services Agency. The Recovery Act allocated an additional $5 billion for weatherization nationwide of which Michigan received over $243 million. For more information, interested households should call the Michigan Department of Human Services Energy Hotline at 1-800-292-5650 or visit https://www.michigan.gov/heatingassistance/ . (####)
10.21.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed legislation to strengthen the Ryan White program which provides care, treatment and support services to nearly half a million Americans living with HIV and AIDS – most of whom are low-income. The Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act passed by a large, bipartisan vote of 408 to 9. “The Ryan White Program has been serving Americans living with HIV and AIDS for nearly 20 years,” said Rep. Levin. “Strengthening this program will bring help to more people and maintain our commitment to HIV/AIDS patients while we continue to search for a cure.” First established in 1990, the Ryan White Program has made it easier for HIV/AIDS patients to afford the costly medical treatments they need. Today’s extension will increase the authorization level for each part of the program by 5% a year for the next 4 years to ensure that there is continued access to vital health benefits for low-income, uninsured, and underinsured Americans. It also makes investments to improve care in regions of the country with the highest rates of HIV/AIDS, and helps to eliminate disparities in access to care among racial and ethnic groups. Each year, over 50,000 new cases of HIV/AIDS are reported. 1.1 million Americans are currently living with HIV or AIDS. More information on the legislation available below. The legislation increases the authorization amounts of each of the Ryan White Program’s five areas by 5% a year over the next four years. Emergency Relief - grants to metropolitan areas with very high numbers of AIDS cases. These grants fund comprehensive primary care and support services, including home health care, hospice care, housing, transportation and nutrition services. Comprehensive Care - grants to states for health care and support services for persons with HIV/AIDS. These grants fund home and community-based health care and support services, and an AIDS drug assistance program. Early Intervention - grants to public and non-public entities to pay for community-based programs that provide comprehensive primary care services intended to prevent or reduce HIV-related deaths. The measure requires that grantees provide counseling and information about hepatitis A, B, and C. It also requires them to develop an electronic information system to improve the ability to report data. Pediatric AIDS Program - grants to improve and expand primary care and support services for women, infants, or children with HIV/AIDS and their families. Minority AIDS Initiative - funds efforts to address the disproportionate impact of HIV/AIDS on racial and ethnic minorities and to improve access, treatment, care, and outcomes for racial and ethnic minorities living with HIV/AIDS. The bill also requires the HHS Secretary to establish a national HIV/AIDS testing goal of 5 million tests per year by January 1, 2010 through federally-supported HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and care programs, both at the CDC and through other federal programs. The Secretary is required to report to Congress each year on the progress made toward achieving the goal. (####)
10.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Congressional-Executive Commission on China published its 2009 Annual Report on October 14. The Commission was created by Congress in 2000 to monitor human rights and the development of the rule of law in China. The full text of this year’s report is available at www.cecc.gov, along with a PDF containing case records of 1,279 political prisoners currently detained or imprisoned in China. “We are deeply concerned about continued human rights abuses and stalled rule of law reform documented in the Commission's 2009 Annual Report. Many Chinese government policies designed to address social unrest and bolster the Communist Party's authority are resulting in a period of declining human rights for Chinese citizens,” said Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Chairman of the Commission in a joint statement with Representative Sander Levin, Co-Chairman of the Commission. “The Chinese Government has made economic development a priority, and has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. But, Chinese government policies and practices continue to violate the rights of Chinese citizens and fall far short of meeting international standards,” said Dorgan and Levin in a joint statement. "The Report documents the challenges and opportunities that exist for China to create a more open society with greater respect for human rights, including workers rights, and the rule of law. Holding the Chinese government accountable to its international commitments, including trade, fundamental rights, and the rule of law is an essential element for securing progress. "A stable China firmly committed to the rule of law and fundamental rights is in the national interest of the United States. Those rights include the right to speak freely, the right to organize into independent unions, and to practice the religion of one's choosing. To ensure a positive U.S.-China relationship, it is vital that China’s leaders demonstrate genuine commitment, not just in words but in deeds, to prioritizing fundamental rights in no lesser measure than they have prioritized economic development," added Dorgan and Levin. The Commission consists of nine members of the House of Representatives, nine Senators and five senior Administration officials appointed by the President. The Commission’s Annual Report is among the most comprehensive, public examinations of the state of human rights and the rule of law in China produced by the US government. (####)
10.15.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement following the Treasury Department’s issuance of its semi-annual Report to Congress on International Economic and Exchange Rate Policies: “At the G-20 meeting in Pittsburgh last month, world leaders in their statement took an encouraging and long overdue step. They recognized the need to address global trade imbalances, to avoid another world economic crisis,” said Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin. “Currency manipulation contributed significantly to the global trade imbalances. I hope that, with strong leadership from the United States, the G-20 nations and our international institutions will undertake what has been missing -- a focused, sustained, and meaningful multi-lateral engagement to address currency manipulation and current imbalances.” (####)
10.07.2009	(Washington, D.C.) – The House of Representatives approved the annual agriculture appropriations bill today by a vote of 263 to 162. Included in the legislation is an increase in funding, fought for by Rep. Levin, for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP), a monthly food delivery service which provides nutritious meals to nearly half a million people across the country. In the Detroit area, the program is administered by Focus: HOPE, a local non-profit and long-time advocate for the program, which serves 41,000 people in the area, 35,000 of whom are seniors. “Across the county, literally millions of people are at risk of hunger. We need to strengthen efforts at every level to help ensure that people in need do not go hungry,” said Rep. Levin. “The Commodity Supplemental Food Program brings nutritious food packages into the homes of the people who need them.” The legislation provides $171 million for the CSFP which will allow the program to add a significant number of new participants for the first time since 2003, as well as seven new states. CSFP will now be able to reach more than half a million low-income women, children, and elderly citizens across 39 states, the District of Columbia, and two Indian Tribal Organizations. “We are grateful to Representative Levin’s leadership in the U.S. House. His support and advocacy among his colleagues were instrumental to the continuation of this valuable program, as well as its expansion to a total of 39 states,” said William F. Jones, Jr., CEO of Focus: HOPE. “This cost-effective food program is an example of government at its best. It supports American farmers while getting nutritious food to at-risk mothers, children and senior citizens. I think it is particularly noteworthy that Congress is supporting the expansion of this very successful program during these difficult economic times.” The Commodity Supplemental Food Program was our nation’s first food assistance effort with monthly food packages designed to provide protein, calcium, iron, and vitamins A and C. It began in 1969 for low-income mothers and children, preceding the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children, known as WIC. Starting in the mid-1970s, Focus: HOPE actively lobbied to expand the program to include low-income seniors. In 1983, their efforts succeeded and Congress expanded the program. Today, 95% of all participants are seniors. “Since advocating for this program in the 1970s, I have seen how effective – and essential – the program is for thousands of mothers, children and senior citizens in metropolitan Detroit,” said Eleanor Josaitis, co-founder of Focus: HOPE. “We started out determined to make sure infants and young children received nutritious food, then advocated for expanding this program to include senior citizens who were struggling to make ends meet. When I think of the millions of people who have received food through this program nationwide, I am grateful for the public servants like Sander Levin who have made it possible.” More information on the Commodity Supplemental Food Program: • CSFP is a unique federal/state and public/private effort. The USDA purchases specific nutrient-rich foods at wholesale prices for distribution. State agencies such as the departments of health, agriculture or education provide administration and oversight. These agencies contract with community and faith based organizations to warehouse and distribute food, certify eligibility and educate participants. • The foods provided through CSFP include canned fruits and vegetables, juices, meats, fish, peanut butter, cereals and grain products, cheese, and other dairy products that increase healthy food consumption among these low-income populations. • CSFP providers partner with many others in their communities to distribute the monthly food packages to seniors who are unable to come to the fixed sites. Businesses, schools, city and county offices work to make sure that the food is delivered each month to those who are isolated and homebound. In addition, many of the CSFP operators provide additional services to their participants such as having available additional fresh fruits and vegetables and other donated foods, health screenings, and referrals to other agencies • In a recent study of CSFP, the Urban Institute found that the “administrative simplicity and familiar and comfortable atmosphere of the program are clearly attractions to a population that needs assistance but may be reluctant to seek help in settings it perceives as bureaucratic, stigmatized, or unsympathetic. The fact that the foods distributed are highly valued is clearly another [benefit].” For more information about the Commodity Supplemental Food Program in metro Detroit contact Focus: HOPE at 313-494-4600 or food@focushope.edu. ###
10.07.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin joined Reps. Joe Courtney, Pete Stark, Betty Sutton, and Mazie Hirono at a press conference today to unveil a letter signed by 157 members of the House Democratic Caucus to Speaker Nancy Pelosi opposing a Senate Finance Committee proposal to tax so-called “high-cost” health care benefit plans. “The proposed tax on benefits undermines a basic principle of the reform proposals – to build on the employer-based health care system,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “The Joint Committee on Taxation says the proposed Senate Finance Committee tax would hit approximately 15% of all employer-provided plans in the first year. By the seventh year, it would hit nearly 40% of plans. “I agree that one of the central outcomes of health care reform must be to reduce the rampant inflation in health care costs that is eating up middle class wages in this country. We should focus on making improvements to the health care system that will attack the root cause of high health care costs, rather than implementing a proposal that would undermine the very employer-based system that we seek to build on.” As proposed in the amended Senate Finance Committee bill, a 40% excise tax would be imposed on employer-provided health plans with values over $8,000 for a single person and $21,000 for a family. For people in high-risk jobs and retirees over the age of 55, the thresholds were increased to $9,850 for single individuals and $26,000 for families. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that the tax, as originally proposed, would hit approximately 15% of all employer-provided plans in its initial year. By the seventh year, it would hit nearly 40% of plans. The tax would be levied on the amount of the plan that exceeds the threshold levels (i.e. if a family’s plan is worth $28,000, $7000 would be subject to the tax). The threshold values would increase at a rate of the Consumer Price Index for Urban Consumers (CPI-U) plus one percent. The text of the letter, as released at today’s press conference, is available below. Dear Speaker Pelosi: As Congress continues to consider revenue sources for America’s Affordable Health Choices Act and other health insurance reform proposals, we strongly encourage you to reject imposing an excise tax on so called high cost insurance plans. Such a tax would impact regions with high health care costs in the short-term, and, in the long-term, inevitably extend to more and more middle-income Americans across the country. As you know, the Senate Finance Committee reform proposal, America’s Healthy Future Act, currently includes a 40 percent excise tax on insurers for plans that exceed certain cost thresholds. Real life experience with both health insurers and inelastic markets for services such as health insurance has clearly warned us that this tax will be passed along to insurance payers. Beginning in 2013, the threshold for individual plans will be $8,000 and $21,000 for family coverage. In subsequent years, increases in the cost thresholds will be tied to the Consumer Price Index for urban consumers (CPI-U). The proposal also includes a transition relief rule, which will set cost thresholds 20 percent higher for the 17 highest cost states. The transition relief rule will be phased out by 2015. It is important to note that the proposed thresholds for such a tax already have been surpassed for many middle-income Americans in 2009. For middle-income Americans that have forgone wage and salary increases for strong insurance benefits, these thresholds are simply too low. And, for middle-income Americans who live in the nation’s highest cost regions for health care, the transition relief rule is also too low and phased out far too soon. A Commonwealth Fund report issued on August 20, 2009, “Paying the Price: How Health Insurance Premiums Are Eating Up Middle-Class Incomes,” outlined projected increases in insurance premiums if nothing is done to change the current cost trajectory. According to the report, average insurance premiums will increase 94 percent over the next ten years, with average annual increases of 5.7 percent. The report went on to conclude that average premium costs for family coverage in 2015 will range from $15,508 in the lowest cost state to $19,731 in the highest cost state. Considering high and low cost states will be treated the same with regard to the proposed excise tax in 2015, the average premium projections in high cost regions teeter on the projected cost thresholds of the excise tax. Further, the lessons learned from the alternative minimum tax (AMT) should also serve as a warning for the creation of an excise tax on high cost insurance plans. Over the past four decades, the AMT has morphed from a tax on the wealthiest Americans to a tax on the middle class. In 1969, when the AMT was first enacted, the tax impacted only the wealthiest of Americans. In 2010, nearly one in five Americans will be subjected to the tax. A similar situation with the proposed excise tax is possible considering our experiences with medical inflation. While America’s Affordable Health Choices Act will work to rein in insurance premium costs, these savings will be generated from long-term fixes and may not substantially mitigate premium costs in the short-term before the costs of such an excise tax are passed from the insurer to the customer, including middle-income families. Beyond these other arguments, there is a fundamental flaw in assuming a tax on so called high cost plans will sway choice of insurance coverage, and in turn, discourage wasteful health care spending. This assumption is based on access to a substantial choice in coverage, which is certainly not the case under our current system. Today, small employers pay more for a given insurance plan than a large employer – not because of benefit quality or an employees’ excessive use of plan benefits, but due to smaller risk pools. While America’s Affordable Health Choices Act will help close most of these price discrepancies, this won’t be achieved until 2018 when all reforms are enacted. Further, America’s Affordable Health Choices Act will allow for continued use of age rating with determining premium costs. While age rating will be restricted, the practice underscores limited choice for cheaper coverage options. America’s Affordable Health Choices Act includes sensible revenue sources to pay for the legislation. However, inclusion of an excise tax on high cost insurance plans, as proposed by the Senate Finance Committee, could have significant and detrimental implications for millions of middle-class Americans. The short-term impact would be greatest on individuals and families living in high cost regions and for those that have sacrificed pay increases for strong benefits. Over the long term, the number of individuals and families subjected to the tax would likely continue to grow. To this end, we urge you to continue to reject proposals to enact an excise tax on high cost insurance plans that could be potentially passed on to middle class families. We look forward continuing to work with you to advance health care reform legislation that expands coverage and lowers care costs. (####)
10.02.2009	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin is currently accepting applications from students seeking a nomination to one of the four U.S. Service Academies: Air Force Academy, Naval Academy, Military Academy, and the Merchant Marine Academy. Applicants must live in the 12th Congressional District, and must be U.S. citizens between the ages of 17 and 21. All students seeking admittance to the Service Academies must first receive a nomination from one of the three authorized nominating sources: U.S. Representative, U.S. Senator, and the Vice President. “I enjoy the opportunity to outreach to students interest in this opportunity to match their academic goals with service to our country,” said Rep. Levin. “I am always impressed by the dedication, hard work and enthusiasm of the students who apply, and the families and teachers that support their goals.” Last year, Rep. Levin nominated James Raab of St. Clair Shores, who was then offered an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Mr. Raab, a 2009 graduate of South Lake High School, reported for duty at West Point in June. His proud parents Karen and Michael Raab recently informed Rep. Levin that their son successfully completed six weeks of Cadet Basic Training (CBT), also referred to as the "Beast Barracks." CBT is one of the most challenging events a cadet will encounter over the course of their four years at the Academy. Students interested in applying for a nomination should contact Congressman Levin’s district office at (586) 498-7122 or (248) 968-2025. Upon doing so, they will receive an introductory packet containing the application and detailed instructions for the nomination process. The deadline for submitting applications is November 20, 2009. For more information please contact Congressman Levin’s district office or visit: https://levin.house.gov/serving-you (####)
09.29.2009	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Department of Labor announced today three grants totaling $38,033,600 to provide dislocated workers retraining in areas of economic growth, including healthcare, advanced manufacturing, renewable energy, and management, scientific and technical consulting services. The amount released today will be funded by resources made available for National Emergency Grants under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. “Michigan faces an unusual challenge of transforming its economy during a recession, so we continue steps to accelerate job creation and provide more workers the opportunity to retrain for new jobs,” said Rep. Levin. “The DOL grant recognizes that Michigan has both a need and a vigorous plan to help workers transition during this downturn.” Funding will flow through the No Worker Left Behind program run by the Michigan Department of Energy, Labor, and Economic Growth. In exchange for agreeing to being trained in an emerging industry, the No Worker Left Behind program provides up to two years of free tuition at any Michigan community college, university or training program, and assistance from Michigan Works! Agencies with skill assessment and placement. Based on state of Michigan estimates, about 13,291 additional workers will be served under these grants. National Emergency Grants are awarded at the Secretary of Labor’s discretion to help a state or local area cope with an ongoing economic crisis. The grants are targeted to three Michigan regions: Southeast Michigan, Mid-Michigan, and West Michigan. Of the $38,033,600 announced today, $19,016,800 will be released initially. Additional funding up to the amount approved will be made available as the state demonstrates a continued need for assistance. Breakdown of assistance by region with estimated worker totals: Southeast Michigan Regional Economic Impact (REI) grant1. Awarded up to $18,638,400 with $9,319,200 released initially,2. Provide services to about 7,274 workers. Flint / Mid-Michigan Regional Economic Impact (REI) grant1. Awarded up to $8,993,600 with $4,496,800 released initially, 2. Provide services to about 3,085 workers. West Michigan Regional Economic Impact (REI) grant 1. Awarded up to $10,401,600 with $5,200,800 released initially,2. Provide services to about 2,932 workers. Estimated total of additional workers served: 13,291 workers (####)
09.25.2009	(Washington D.C.)-The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development announced that the Eastpointe Housing Commission will receive a $492,000 Recovery Act grant to improve energy efficiency at Berry Manor, an apartment complex for low-income seniors administered by the Commission. “This Recovery Act funding will not only give Eastpointe the resources they need to jump start renovation at Berry Manor, it will also reduce long-term energy costs and stimulate the local economy," said Rep. Levin.“The Eastpointe Housing Commission is so pleased to be a recipient of this grant,” said Jody Ling, Director of the Eastpointe Housing Commission. “These funds will allow us to create a more energy efficient facility for our residents. Since these funds are earmarked for energy efficient green projects, we plan to replace the building’s (original) boiler, all the (original) windows and all our common area flooring with renewable, sustainable cork flooring. These improvements will not only enhance the quality of our resident’s lives, but they will save on maintenance, energy costs, and allow us to put more resources into our residents’ needs.” The Eastpointe Housing Commission was one of 134 housing authorities awarded in the $500 million announcement. The grants were awarded competitively and were provided through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act which was signed into law last February. (####)
09.24.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed the Medicare Premium Fairness Act, legislation which will protect seniors and people with disabilities from unfair increases in their 2010 Medicare Part B premiums. The legislation passed by a bipartisan vote of 406 to 18. “In these unusually difficult economic times, this legislation protects millions of retirees who would otherwise have to pay increased Medicare Part B premiums,” said Rep. Levin. “It also avoids placing added costs on state budgets, already under serious financial pressure, which would otherwise have to cover the increased premiums for seniors eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare.” Current law protects most Medicare beneficiaries from premium increases in years when their Social Security benefits aren’t set to rise, a likely outcome for next year. However, 27% of beneficiaries are not covered under this “hold harmless” policy. These include low-income individuals who are eligible for Medicare and Medicaid (18%, or 7.3 million beneficiaries), higher-income Medicare beneficiaries (5%, or 2.1 million beneficiaries), new Medicare enrollees (3% or 1.3 million beneficiaries) and enrollees whose Medicare premiums are not deducted from their Social Security checks (2%, or 850,000 beneficiaries). Because of the way the law is written, premiums for the enrollees who are not currently held harmless would be disproportionately increased unless Congress acts. Currently, 42 million seniors and people with disabilities are enrolled in Medicare Part B. The standard Part B premium for 2009 is $96.40 per month (higher for individuals with incomes over $85,000 or $170,000 for couples). By law, the premium is calculated each year to cover approximately 25 percent of the cost of the Medicare program. The House-passed bill would extend the “hold harmless” policy to protect all Medicare enrollees from an increase larger than the Social Security COLA, so that the 2010 Part B premiums will remain at $96.40 and no seniors will see a cut in their social security checks. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates the cost of the bill at $2.8 billion for 2010 and the bill is fully paid for by reducing the Medicare Improvement Fund, a set-aside fund in Medicare. (####)
09.24.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) posted on his website a special section devoted to the Obama Administration’s decision to provide temporary relief as recommended by the independent International Trade Commission (ITC) on tire imports from China. The website can be accessed by clicking on the following graphic: Chairman Levin issued the following statement on the issue: “There are two essential parts to an effective trade policy in this era of globalization: it is necessary to expand trade; it is also necessary to create and implement rules that govern that expansion. Enforcement of those rules is the opposite of protectionism – and indeed is a weapon against it. “Embracing one of these parts and rejecting the other is self-defeating, accentuating the polarization that has handicapped the discussion and development of effective trade policies. “Another key to avoiding a polarizing debate is to get the facts straight. “The ITC found a market-disrupting surge in tire imports from China based on the facts and spelled out in detail in the majority decision. In the responses to the President’s decision there have been numerous misstatements of the facts. Correcting the record is essential to a useful discussion as the Administration and Congress develop a new and effective U.S. trade policy.” The website includes background on the decision, questions and answers and a Setting the Record Straight Section which provides analysis of misstatements in the media. (####)
09.23.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development announced that all Recovery Act funding for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) have been released and are now in the hands of the state and local communities. The Recovery Act included $1 billion for CDBG of which $2.9 million was allocated for Macomb and Oakland Counties and communities. “More CDBG funding, through the Recovery Act, comes at an important time for our communities who are grappling with difficult budgets and the ongoing economic downturn,” said Rep. Levin. “Communities can decide what programs best meet the needs of their communities and residents, and get the money out to stimulate the local economy.” Since 1974, CDBG has provided more than $127 billion to state and local governments to target their own community development priorities. These funds are used to rehabilitate housing, reconstruct residential streets, help fund domestic violence shelters, and fund important economic development initiatives. NAME Recovery Act CLINTON TWP $140,955 ROSEVILLE $153,391 ROYAL OAK $364,970 SOUTHFIELD $137,099 ST CLAIR SHORES $250,265 STERLING HEIGHTS $182,394 WARREN $229,180 OAKLAND COUNTY $1,015,800 MACOMB COUNTY $449,751 MICHIGAN STATE PROGRAM $9,583,308 *communities without a direct allocation receive their money from the county (####)
09.22.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved an additional 13 weeks of benefits for people in states with unemployment rates above 8.5 percent. The legislation passed by a vote of 331 to 83. “Almost 15 million are unemployed, the greatest number since 1939,” said Rep. Levin. “We can tell these people to ‘get looking,’ ‘get lost,’ or ‘get some help.’ They are already looking, so it’s a question of whether we are going to get them the help they need.” In Michigan 25,500 will lose benefits by the end of September, 62,700 by the end of the year, without an extension. Rep. Levin shared the story of Larry Szpanelewski, a resident of Madison Heights, on the Floor of the House during debate on the legislation. “You know, I never thought this would happen to me,” Mr. Szpanelewski had said in a phone call. “I have never been unemployed before. This economy is unlike anything I could ever imagine. I am very grateful for each extension of benefits. But I really want to get back to work. There is this misconception that people like me are sitting back and waiting for the next unemployment check. I really really want to get back to work. I want to get back to doing my part and earning a paycheck. This [unemployment] is agony, it really is. I’m just waiting for the right phone call: ‘Come to Work.’” Michigan, which has an unemployment rate of 15.2%, has lost 406,000 jobs since the start of the recession in 2007. Besides Michigan, people in 26 states as well as in Washington, DC and Puerto Rico would also qualify for the extension. Over 300,000 jobless workers who reside in these high unemployment states are projected to run out of unemployment compensation by the end of September and a total of over one million workers in these states are projected to exhaust existing benefits before the end of the year. Nationally, American job losses declined in August, to 216,000 – two-thirds less than the job loss in January and the lowest monthly job loss total in a year. However, job losses still total 6.9 million since the recession began in December 2007 and the national unemployment rate has increased to 9.7 percent – the highest level in 26 years. The underemployment rate reached 16.8 percent and more than one-third jobless workers have been out of work for more than six months. The legislation would not add to the deficit because its cost is completely offset by extending for one year a federal unemployment surtax that has been in place for over 30 years, and requiring better reporting on newly hired employees to reduce unemployment insurance overpayments. The House is expected to take up legislation to address the renewal of existing benefits for 2010 later this year. The federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program and federal help for state extended benefits are due to expire at the end of the year. “Expanding emergency unemployment compensation for thirteen more weeks is the first step, but we will need to extend the entire program by the end of the year,” concluded Rep. Levin. Extending unemployment benefits is one of the most cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy because the money is spent quickly. Every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.63 in new economic demand according to Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody’s Economy.com. (####)
09.17.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives voted today to make the nation’s largest investment ever in student financial aid. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) will raise the maximum Pell Grant award, simplify the student financial aid application process, and begin the community college initiative President Obama proposed while at Macomb Community College. The legislation, which is fully paid for, passed by a vote of 253 to 171. “This bill makes college more affordable for Michigan families and prepares our students and workers for the 21st Century,” said Rep. Levin, who co-sponsored the legislation. “Additionally, these reforms end wasteful subsidies, making student aid more efficient and lowering the overall cost of the program to taxpayers.” The legislation saves taxpayers $87 billion by ending wasteful subsidies to private lenders and invests those savings in community colleges and college students. Beginning July 1, 2010, all new federal student loans will be originated through the Direct Loan program, instead of through lenders subsidized by taxpayers in the federally-guaranteed student loan program. In total, $77 billion of the savings from this change will go directly to education, including the American Graduation Initiative to improve rates of college completion and competitive grant programs to improve the quality of college education. Funding will also be made available to modernize and repair community college and K-12 facilities. The legislation expands access to college for thousands of displaced workers and low-income students by providing $40 billion to the Pell grant program, increasing the maximum award to $6,900 by 2019, and providing an additional $6 billion for Perkins loans. Simplification of the FAFSA, the form used to apply for student loans and grants, will allow applicants to use information directly from their tax returns, making it easier for families to apply for financial aid. The interest rates on subsidized federal student loans will be made variable, preventing the rates from jumping to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent in 2012 as currently scheduled. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found that even while accounting for the increased aid to students and colleges, the legislation returns approximately $10 billion to the U.S. Treasury over ten years. (####)
09.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives voted today to build on the success of the Department of Energy’s vehicle technology programs, such as FutureCar and the 21st Century Truck Partnership, which boost American manufacturing innovation and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. The Advanced Vehicle Technology Act, which creates a comprehensive national vehicle research and development program, passed on a bipartisan vote of 312 to 114. “A full partnership between the federal government and the domestic auto industry is vital to develop the cars and trucks of the future and build them here in the United States,” said Rep. Levin. “As consumers traded in their vehicles under the CARS program they demonstrated the demand for cleaner, more fuel-efficient vehicles. We must ensure that the United States leads the way in developing the cars of the future.” The legislation calls for $2.9 billion over five years to develop hybrid or fully-electrified vehicle propulsion systems, hydrogen fuel cells, engine energy efficiency technologies, waste heat recovery systems, friction and wear reduction technologies, and other technologies. The measure specifies that the program be conducted in cooperation with vehicle and component manufacturers, service providers, fuel companies, energy suppliers and utilities, universities, laboratories, and state and local government agencies. The bill also specifies that up to $200 million per year be devoted to research and development projects devoted to advanced technology for medium and heavy duty trucks. This complements legislation Representative Levin has introduced which extends the existing tax credits for the purchase of medium and heavy duty trucks for five years and doubles the amount of the credits. “Medium and heavy duty vehicles move 80% of the goods transported in the US, serve as utility maintenance vehicles, and perform refuse collection services in our communities. It is estimated that the fuel consumption of the 90,000 refuse collection trucks in the US is equivalent to 2.5 million passenger vehicles. Putting as few as 10,000 hybrid electric trucks on the road would reduce diesel fuel use by 7.2 million gallons per year and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 83,000 tons” said Rep. Levin. Rep. Levin’s legislation, the Heavy Duty Hybrid Truck Incentives Improvement Act, would also expand the credit to cover purely electric trucks, and make the credits more accessible for the very largest vehicles. (####)
09.14.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), and Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statements in response to President Barack Obama’s decision to address the harmful surge of low-priced Chinese tires in the U.S. marketplace: “I applaud President Obama for taking this common-sense action to stand up for American workers and industry,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY). “The American tire industry lost more than 5,000 jobs since China flooded our market with cheap tires and stood to lose thousands more without this corrective action. This remedy is consistent with WTO rules governing China’s membership and President Obama is making good on his commitment to pursue a new trade policy that puts Americans workers, farmers and businesses first.” “The Obama Administration’s action today is an important step toward a new trade policy that actively expands trade and shapes that expansion in ways that widen its benefits and address distortions, including through strong enforcement,” said Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI). “When Congress negotiated Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with China, we made a commitment to our workers and industry that there would be a provision for assistance in response to market-disruptions such as these. Regrettably, the previous Administration failed to take the necessary action and use the enforcement tools available. Today’s action by the President is a welcome change from the inaction of the past.” Chairmen Rangel and Levin also joined Democratic Members of the Committee on a letter urging President Obama to provide meaningful relief to the American tire industry and workers harmed by a surge in low-priced Chinese tires. (####)
09.14.2009	(Washington D.C.)- House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following in response to news reports that China intends to retaliate following the Obama Administration’s decision to provide temporary relief to address a market-disrupting surge in tire imports from China: “The China PNTR legislation was built on two principles- to support expanded trade as an essential part of increasing economic globalization, and the need for rules of competition governing this expansion. China agreed to this safeguard provision when it joined the WTO and the United States passed legislation granting China permanent normal trade relations status. “As a result, there is no basis for China’s challenge of the U.S. action here. However, requesting WTO consultations is the only acceptable action – unilateral retaliatory action is not acceptable. Indeed, WTO rules explicitly prohibit such retaliatory actions and I am confident that the President’s action will withstand WTO scrutiny. “A rules-based trading system is essential in this era of globalization. It is the opposite of protectionism – and indeed is a weapon against it. Abiding by the rules of trade and competition should not spark a “trade war” because the United States would not reciprocate with its own retaliatory action. Instead, the United States will operate within – and defend – the rules-based trading system. “There are two parts to an effective trade policy: it is necessary to expand trade; it is also necessary to create and implement rules that govern that expansion. Embracing one and rejecting the other would be self-defeating, accentuating the polarization that has handicapped effective discussion and development of effective trade policies.” Background WTO-Consistency of U.S. Action on Tires. When China joined the WTO, it agreed that other WTO Members would have the right, for a period of 12 years, to provide temporary relief from any “market disruption” to a domestic industry caused by a surge in imports from China. (Article 16 of the WTO Protocol on the Accession of the People’s Republic of China.)Under the rules governing China’s WTO membership, “market disruption” exists whenever imports “are increasingly rapidly ... so as to be a significant cause of material injury, or threat of material injury to the domestic industry.” In determining if market disruption exists, the United States is required to consider factors “including the volume of imports, the effect of imports on prices ..., and the effect of such imports on the domestic industry[.]” In the tires case, the independent, bipartisan International Trade Commission (ITC), after an extensive investigation, concluded that a surge of low-priced Chinese tires had injured the U.S. tire industry. Of particular note, the ITC found that there had been a tremendous, rapid surge in Chinese tire imports (a tripling of imports from 14.6 million in 2004 to 46 million in 2008) and evidence of persistent underselling by the Chinese (Chinese prices were 23-25 percent lower than U.S. prices). Over the same period, the ITC documented that the U.S. tire industry’s sales fell by 30 percent, and more than 5,000 workers lost their jobs. WTO Rules Prohibit Unilateral Retaliatory Actions. Article 23 of the WTO Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes provides that Members “shall not make a determination to the effect that a violation [of WTO rules] has occurred ... except through recourse to dispute settlement in accordance with [WTO] rules and procedures[.]” It also provides that a WTO Member must obtain authorization from the WTO before taking retaliatory action. (####)
09.10.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin issued the following statement after President Obama’s joint address to Congress. “The President tonight rose to the occasion, talking straight to the American people and standing tall on the facts and the moral grounds for health care reform. He made the case with reason and with vigor that the status quo is unsustainable. “It is now up to Congress to respond and act on behalf of the American people. We must address rising costs for individuals with health insurance and employers who provide it, coverage for all Americans, and strict regulation of insurance company practices.” (####)
08.27.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The White House announced today that the Chippewa Valley Coalition for Youth & Families will receive a $125,000 Drug Free Communities (DFC) grant for its efforts to facilitate active citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. The DFC program was created by the Drug Free Communities Act of 1997, legislation co-authored by Congressman Levin. “Evidence has shown that communities receiving DFC grants lowered their instances of youth drug and alcohol abuse,” said Rep. Levin. “The Chippewa Valley Coalition has demonstrated effective and innovate ways to engage the community on drug prevention efforts and this grant will allow them to continue to do so.” The Chippewa Valley Coalition holds annual drug prevention workshops, runs a drug prevention program for Chippewa Valley students, carries out drug prevention awareness campaigns, and educates parents on substance abuse. In addition to the $125,000 grant for this year, the Chippewa Valley Coalition will be eligible for continuing grants for the next five years. “The Chippewa Valley Coalition for Youth and Families is so pleased to be a recipient of this grant,” said Dr. Charlene McGunn, Student Assistance Coordinator for Chippewa Valley Schools. “The funds will allow us to further engage parents, community, and school in collaborative efforts to keep our youth safe and drug-free.” The Drug Free Communities program is directed by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy in partnership with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. The DFC program provides matching grants of up to $625,000 over five years to community organizations that facilitate citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. Today, $21 million was awarded to 161 new grantees selected from 417 applicants after a competitive, peer-reviewed process. To qualify for the grants, awardees must have at least a six-month history of working together on substance abuse reduction initiatives, have representation from 12 specific sectors of the community, develop a long–term plan to reduce substance abuse, and participate in a national evaluation of the DFC program. These awards are in addition to $60 million that was awarded last week in continuation grants to 565 anti-drug coalitions, including 21 Michigan coalitions, that are on-going recipients of DFC funding. The DFC program was created by the Drug Free Communities Act of 1997 which was co-authored by Congressman Levin and Former-Congressman Rob Portman. Congressman Levin is a principal advocate for the program in Congress, leading the fight to improve funding levels since the program’s creation. Since its inception, the DFC program has awarded funding to support the drug prevention work of approximately 1,500 coalitions. (####)
08.26.2009	(Roseville, MI)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement on the passing of Senator Ted Kennedy. "Ted Kennedy came from a family of unwavering public service. But he quickly added a unique dimension that marked all of his years in the Senate and will provide an unending legacy. His intense desire to help improve opportunities for all Americans was evident from the first time I had the privilege of meeting him, when he came to campaign for his brother at the Oakland County Democratic Dinner on November 15, 1963. The tragic death of his brother, President Kennedy, one week later shook his family and the family of our entire nation. But his indomitable spirit carried him to working effectively for the common good for his entire unsurpassed career in the Senate." (####)
08.20.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin released the following statement regarding the Car Allowance Rebate System (CARS) program: “The CARS program has been a significant success, getting consumers back in showrooms and boosting sales, and also has been helpful in creating jobs. This is reflected in the recent announcements boosting production by GM and Ford. It is now important that CARS be implemented to ensure that all transactions are honored and dealers are reimbursed expeditiously. When Congress returns in early September it should promptly look at and learn from the success of this program, which was authorized at $4 billion and has been funded to date at $3 billion.” (####)
08.19.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The US Army Corps of Engineers has updated its list of projects funded under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, including several previously unfunded projects. Included in the new projects is a total of $3.75 million to reduce sedimentation and improve water quality in the Red Run Drain. The Red Run Drain is a tributary of the Clinton River. The Corps funding, provided under the Oakland County, Michigan, Environmental Infrastructure Program, will include $210,000 for design work related to shoal removal and stream bank stabilization, with an additional $3.54 for construction. There is a 25 percent, $1.25 million local match requirement for the project to move forward. The Corps funding will be used for Infrastructure assistance to the George W. Kuhn Drain project, located in the SE corner of Oakland County. The George W. Kuhn Drain system includes the Red Run Drain, the majority of which is actually located in Macomb County, so the restoration work will largely benefit areas downstream in Macomb County. With the completion of the massive Kuhn Drain improvements a couple years ago, there has been a significant reduction in combined sewer overflows into the Red Run Drain and Clinton River. However, there is still a significant problem with sedimentation, both in the Red Run Drain and the Clinton River itself, during heavy rain events, which has severely eroded the banks along the waterway. Sediment in urban watersheds is a significant impediment to water quality. The sedimentation problem in the Red Run Drain has also created shoals that impede the flow of water in the channel. The Corps funding will be used to remove shoals in the Red Run Drain and also to perform bank stabilization projects. “We’ve made a lot of progress on reducing pollution in the Clinton River, but there is a critical need to address the build up of sediment in the watershed,” said Rep. Levin. “Today’s announcement that the Corps will commit $3.75 million to the Red Run Drain restoration effort will substantially reduce sedimentation, open up water flow, and improve water quality downstream.” “Because my office has worked so closely with Congressman Levin over the years, we were able to quickly respond to the President’s request for “Shovel Ready Projects”. This project will eliminate historic pollution; restore the natural habitat; all while creating the jobs we need in Michigan.” said Oakland County Water Resources Commissioner, John P. McCulloch. “Red Run Drain is a crucial piece of the Clinton River Watershed,” said Dan Keifer, Community Outreach Director of the Clinton River Watershed Council. “In a populated, urbanized area such as this, the project is much-needed work to restore and protect surface water quality.” The Army Corps of Engineers will remove the shoal, or deposited sediment, and stabilize water banks to reduce the backup in the Red Run Drain during storms. “We look forward to working with the Oakland County Drain Commission and the local communities on moving this project forward,” said Gary O’Keefe, Deputy District Engineer for Project Management for the Corps’ Detroit District. “We should have all of the Federal funds in hand within a week, so we will be ready to move forward quickly with the design contract, with the goal of moving to construction next year.” (####)
08.19.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congressmen John D. Dingell (D-MI15) and Sander Levin (D-MI12) have questions for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan President and CEO Daniel J. Loepp about a series of rate hikes the company announced late last week. Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan plans to hike monthly premiums for 163,000 Michigan citizens who buy the insurer's nongroup or group conversion plans on average by 22 percent. Blue Cross will also increase supplemental Medicare policies, known as Medigap, held by about 210,000 Michigan seniors by an average of 4.7 percent. Blue Cross had requested an average 56 percent hike for its nongroup plans and 41 percent for its group conversion policies. “We've had hundreds of medical bankruptcies across our state and these increases threaten to put more families in danger. We are facing a disaster,” said Congressman Dingell. “Unless we reform the system, people are going to have to choose between health insurance and a home. And it doesn't sound like this is the end of the increases - I've seen that some people enrolled in nongroup policies could see their monthly premiums rise from 4.5 percent to 28 percent. At the same time, monthly rates on group conversion plans could rise between 4.3 percent and 40 percent. This makes the case for the need of comprehensive health insurance reform like we have in H.R. 3200-health reform legislation being considered in the U.S. House of Representatives. H.R. 3200 will drive down the costs of health insurance by creating competition, reducing waste, fraud and abuse that contributes to increased costs, and instituting new rules that will force insurance companies to compete on the basis of price and quality, not by denying coverage to people with pre-existing conditions or taking away policies when someone gets sick. Without it, increases like this one could lead to across the broad increases for all plans including many not involved in the current rate increase.” “These rate increases show exactly why the status quo for health care is unsustainable. Families cannot continue to endure these kinds of spiraling costs,” said Rep. Levin. “Today we are requesting the facts to better understand the particular reasons why Blue Cross is raising its rates, but we all know the general reasons – health care costs rising out of control and too little competition in the Michigan insurance market. These increases demonstrate the urgency of the health care reform proposal we are working on in Congress, which would bring down costs in part by simplifying billing paperwork, increasing competition, and prohibiting insurers from charging more based on pre-existing conditions.” According to published reports, the Blue Cross plans and the increases include: * Young Adult Blue PPO (nongroup) was $47.14; increases 4.5 percent to $49.30 * Individual Care Blue PPO, ages 40-44 (nongroup) was $230.30; increases 28.2 percent to $296.67 * Traditional Option C (group conversion) was $233.60; increases 24 percent to $289.75* Medigap Plan C was $107.09 a month; increases 4.7 percent to $112. In their report for the New America Foundation on health care in America, “The Cost of Doing Nothing”, Sarah Axeen and Elizabeth Carpenter wrote: “By 2016, Michigan residents will have to spend more than $26,000 or 52 percent of median household income to buy health insurance for themselves and their families. This represents a 94 percent increase over 2008 premium levels.” (Page 54) Below is the letter sent by the two Members to Mr. Loepp: Daniel J. LoeppPresident and Chief Executive OfficerBlue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan600 East Lafayette BoulevardDetroit, Michigan 48226-2998 Dear Mr. Loepp: We are writing to inquire about recent health insurance premium increases requested by Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan and its affect on Michigan consumers. According to recent news reports, Michigan insurance regulators approved Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan’s request last week to increase the rates for about 163,000 people who buy nongroup or group conversion plans by an average of 22 percent. The approved rate increase is lower than the original request for an average 56 percent increase for nongroup plans and 41 percent for group conversion plans. Additionally, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan recently won approval for an average 4.7 percent interim increase on its Medigap policies, which cover approximately 210,000 seniors. Unfortunately, this is not the end of the bad news for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan beneficiaries. News accounts report that Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan will continue to seek its original request of an average 31 percent rate increase on three Medigap plan options. We are currently working in Congress to make changes to the health insurance system that would bring down the cost of insurance for all Americans. These changes include simplifying billing paperwork and prohibiting insurers from charging more based on pre-existing conditions. In the current economic environment, health insurance rate increases are the last thing Michiganders should be forced to deal with today. Faced with one of the worst economic situations in American history, Michiganders are being forced to pay more while their wages remain stagnant and in many cases are disappearing. From 2000 to 2007, employer sponsored annual health insurance premiums rose from $6,817 to $12,151, an increase of $5,334 or 78.2 percent. Over the same period, the median earnings of Michigan’s workers increased from $25,910 to $27,096, an increase of $1,186 or 4.6 percent. Health insurance rate increases continue to strain American consumers and will put access to health care further out of reach. An average of 504 people are losing health insurance in Michigan every day. These rate increases have the potential to force more and more families to make tough decisions that no one should be forced to make—whether they pay the mortgage or utility bill or pay health insurance premiums. In order to gain a better understanding of the need for the approved and any future rate increases, we respectfully ask for your response to the following questions: What percentage of the recently approved rate increase (individual and Medigap) will directly go towards actual medical costs for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan beneficiaries? What is the basis of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan’s decision to forgo using its $2.4 billion surplus to offset rate hikes? Will any health benefits currently available to the holders of the policies affected by the rate increases be cut or adjusted in any way? What is Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan’s current medical loss ratio? Does Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan plan to seek additional rate hikes in the near future, either in these or other markets? If so, what segment of your beneficiary population will be impacted and how high would the rate hike request be? For each employee or officer who was compensated more than $500,000 in the past five years what is the total value of compensation the individual received in each year, and the annual value of each of the following components of the individual’s compensation: a) salary and b) bonus? A response to this letter by September 2, 2009 would be greatly appreciated. If you have any questions, please contact Virgil Miller or Katie Campbell with Rep. Dingell’s office at (202) 225-4071, or Jocelyn Lippert with Rep. Levin’s office at (202) 225-4961. Sincerely, John D. Dingell Sander LevinMember of Congress Member of Congress (####)
08.05.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Energy (DOE) awarded $2.4 billion in Recovery Act funding to support advanced batteries and electric vehicles manufacturing and development today. These funds include $1.5 billion for advanced battery manufacturing. The battery awards come about as a result of $2 billion that was included for advanced batteries in the economic recovery bill approved by Congress earlier this year and were a top priority of the Michigan congressional delegation. The lion’s share of the battery funding awarded by DOE today will go to develop cell and battery pack manufacturing facilities. The goal of these grants is to kick-start U.S. advanced battery production and close the gap with battery manufacturing in other nations, like Japan, China, and South Korea. Michigan companies were awarded the most advanced battery funding of any state, receiving $966 million of the $1.5 billion available. General Motors and Ford were also awarded $167 million to produce electric drive components. “Today we are taking a major step in the transformation of U.S. manufacturing,” said Rep. Levin, who helped lead the fight in the House of Representatives to include battery funding in the economic recovery bill. “Advanced battery manufacturing has been a critical gap in America’s industrial base, and one that we are determined to close. With today’s announcement, it is clear that the road to advanced batteries runs through Michigan.” “Without this kind of public-private partnership, we would abandon the field to battery manufacturers in other nations. As the domestic auto industry moves forward with producing electric vehicles to reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil, it is unacceptable to trade our dependence on foreign oil for a dependence on foreign batteries. We need these advanced batteries to be developed and built here.” (####)
07.31.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today approved legislation to re-direct $2 billion from Recovery funds for the Consumer Allowance Rebate System (CARS), also known as “Cash for Clunkers.” The funding was considered on an expedited basis after the Department of Transportation informed Members of Congress that dealerships across the country may have already sold enough care to exhaust the $1 billion in funding previously provided. “Consumers have spoken. This program is hugely successful and we have to keep up the momentum,” said Rep. Levin. “Getting consumers back into showroom is vital to our national economic recovery as it stimulates the economy and helps the domestic auto industry get back on its feet.” “The Administration has assured dealers and consumers that rebates for vehicles already sold under the program will be honored now and through the weekend. I’m hopeful the Senate will act quickly so we will have this additional funding boost to the President in time to avoid any gap in this important recovery program.” The legislation approved in the House today, H.R. 3435, redirects $2 billion to the CARS program from a Department of Energy loan guarantee program funded as part of the Recovery Act. It passed on a bi-partisan 316-109 vote, and must now be considered by the Senate. (####)
07.30.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved a $636 billion defense funding bill today. The House passed the measure on a vote of 400 to 30. Among its many provisions, the House-passed bill contained $613 million for the Army’s Stryker armored vehicle, an increase of $225 million above the Administration’s request. The House increased the funding level to allow the Army to purchase additional Stryker vehicles, although the legislation did not specify how many additional vehicles the Army should buy. “Our troops in the field deserve the best equipment we can possibly provide for them. The Stryker combines high mobility and proven battlefield toughness,” said Rep. Levin, “The additional funding for Strykers in the House bill will help keep our soldiers safe.” The 20-ton Stryker is a versatile, eight-wheeled armored vehicle that was first introduced to combat operations in Iraq in 2003. The Stryker has been a standout success in Iraq, and a Stryker brigade was recently dispatched to Afghanistan where it will confront a much different combat environment on that country’s rugged and mountainous terrain. The ten different variants of the Stryker are designed and built by General Dynamics Lands Systems, which is based in Sterling Heights, Michigan. The Stryker program supports thousands of jobs in Michigan at General Dynamics and the 189 suppliers of the Stryker program. (####)
07.30.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin welcomed the news that the Macomb-St. Clair Michigan Works was being awarded a $979,400 grant from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) to lead in starting a new program to help unemployed workers 55 years and older throughout southeast Michigan. “Macomb is a national leader in training initiatives, and this grant announcement spotlights another innovation to address the realities of Michigan’s economic downturn and transition,” said Rep. Levin. “Many hard-working individuals are getting laid off later in their work life, many before they are ready and financially able to retire, so it is critical that we have programs in place to bolster their transitions as we fight to create more jobs locally.” The grant stems from the DOL’s Older Worker Demonstration Grants, which is part of DOL’s High Growth Job Training Initiative. The grant to the Macomb / St. Clair Workforce Development Board is one of only ten provided today. Background The project establishes a system to help unemployed older workers navigate and take advantage of the workforce and training services available in their local areas. Older Worker Navigators will be trained and implemented in One Stop Career Centers throughout the region. Navigators will facilitate the process of career exploration, development of appropriate career ladders, selection of vocational training and/or basic skills remediation, as well as provide job search, assessment, and case management assistance to older workers. Macomb Community College is enhancing its Credit for Prior Learning program so that older workers will have easier access to opportunities to obtain credit for their prior experience, helping them to earn a degree/credential in a shorter period of time. The project will leverage significant Workforce Investment Act funds and the Michigan No Worker Left Behind program to provide training in demand occupations to project participants. “We saw a need in our regional area to help these workers and we are pleased that DOL has recognized our ability to implement a new training program for workers who still have much to offer to Michigan’s economy,” said John Bierbusse, Executive Director of the Macomb / St. Clair Workforce Development Board. “We are looking forward to helping workers with a significant amount of career experience leverage their relevant skills and knowledge by creating a pathway that recognizes this experience and builds upon it,” said Dr. Jim Jacobs, President of Macomb Community College. (####)
07.30.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Led by Subcommittee Chairman Jim McDermott, Representative Levin and other members of the Ways and Means Committee joined together to introduce legislation to extend the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program for another 13 weeks in states with unemployment over 9%. Michigan, which has lost 777,000 jobs since 2000, had an unemployment rate in June of 15.2%. “The downturn continues and long-term unemployment is at record levels so we must prepare for action in September to extend the federal unemployment insurance program for hardest hit states,” said Rep. Levin. “We know that jobs are often one of the last components of the economy to recover in a downturn. As we continue to fight for more jobs, we must ensure that unemployed workers and their families have a lifeline to carry them over to better times. We must not leave thousands of people without help in the midst of this crisis.” The new legislation would extend the emergency extended benefit program for another 13 weeks for unemployed workers in states with an unemployment rate of 9% or higher. It also extends the provision which provides 100% federal funding for the regular law Extended Benefit program, the federally funded Emergency Unemployment Compensation benefits, and the $25 a week supplement until the end of 2010. While this legislation will address expiring benefits, there is action needed by the Michigan State Senate to claim unemployment funds already provided by the Federal Recovery Act. Michigan would receive $138.5 million by improving its State Unemployment Insurance program to include workers in training and people who can only work part-time. Legislation has been approved by the Michigan State House and is supported by the Governor, but it is being blocked in the Michigan State Senate. “The State Senate is leaving money in Washington that could help Michigan’s unemployed workers right now. Even though the Federal Government will pay the full freight - $138.5 million – for two full years, they say ‘no’. Even though Michigan could change the law back after two years, they say ‘no’. Even though 27 other states have acted to cover people seeking part-time work, the State Senate says ‘no’. We must convince them to say ‘yes,’” concluded Rep. Levin. Across the country, 29% of unemployed workers have been out of work for six months or longer and there are currently more than 5 unemployed people in this country for every available job. 6.5 million jobs have been lost nationally since the start of the recession. 100,000 Michiganders and 1.5 million across the country will exhaust their unemployment benefits by the end of the year if no other extensions are provided. In Michigan, individuals qualify for 26 weeks through the State Unemployment Insurance program. The Federal Recovery Act extended a 33 week additional Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program through the end of the year and paid 100% of another 20 weeks under the Extended Benefit program which the state usually doesn’t fully utilize because they have to pay 50% of the cost. Additionally, the Recovery Act added $25 per week to each person’s unemployment benefits checks. (####)
07.30.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved broad legislation to reduce the occurrence of food-borne illness in the United States today. The Food Safety Enhancement Act gives new authority to the Food and Drug Administration while requiring food producers to keep more detailed records and take preventative measures. The legislation passed by a vote of 283 to 142. “Each year millions of Americans get sick from consuming contaminated food while high-risk food processing facilities go uninspected,” said Rep Levin. “This legislation tackles this problem head-on by giving inspectors more access to food processing facilities and their records, creating a tracing system so that the sources of an outbreak can be quickly identified, and establishing the power to issue a mandatory recall when necessary. Importantly, food manufacturers will also have to take preventative action to discover and address food safety risks before they become a problem.” As Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommitee on Trade, Congressman Levin worked with bill sponsors Chairman Henry Waxman and Congressman John Dingell on provisions related to the safety of imported food. “Regardless of whether food is grown here at home, or imported from abroad, it is critical we ensure that Americans’ food is safe to eat,” said Rep. Levin. (####)
07.28.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin introduced legislation today to extend and improve the existing tax credits for the purchase of medium and heavy duty hybrid vehicles. Tax credits ranging from $1,500 to $12,000 are currently available for the purchase of medium or heavy duty hybrid vehicles, such as delivery vehicles, utility trucks and garbage trucks. The maximum credit varies depending on the size and fuel efficiency of the vehicle. This important incentive to speed the deployment of heavy duty hybrid vehicles is currently set to expire at the end of this year. Rep. Levin’s legislation, the Heavy Duty Hybrid Truck Incentives Improvement Act, would extend the tax credits for five years and double the credit amounts. It would also expand the credit to cover purely electric trucks, and make the credits more accessible for the very largest vehicles. “Hybrid and electric trucks are a new and quickly developing market that we need to spark,” said Rep. Levin. “By expanding the tax credit we encourage commercial and private users to invest in these vehicles which lessen our dependence on foreign oil, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and continue the progress of advanced vehicle technology.” Leaders from the hybrid truck industry welcomed the legislation. "As we establish a robust domestic market for electric drive vehicles, it is essential to recognize that the biggest vehicles offer the biggest benefits in fuel savings and emissions reduction. We are pleased that Congressman Levin recognizes this need; his legislation will help to make the commercial fleet cleaner and more efficient with electric drive technology," said Brian Wynne, President of the Electric Drive Transportation Association (EDTA), the largest industry trade group promoting the electrification of vehicles. "Speaking on behalf of the hybrid truck industry we really appreciate Congressman Levin's leadership on this topic. He understands that hybrid trucks can be of strategic significance for the United States. By building and using these trucks in the United States we can put people back to work, cut our dependence on oil, and help the environment," said John Boesel, President and CEO of CALSTART, a non-profit organization that serves as a catalyst and strategic broker for the clean transportation technology industry. CALSTART manages the national Hybrid Truck Users Forum (www.htuf.org), a national effort to facilitate the commercialization of more efficient trucks. Medium and heavy duty vehicles move 80% of the goods transported in the US, serve as utility maintenance vehicles, and perform refuse collection services in our communities. According to Duke University, they consume more than 52 billion gallons of fuel each year and account for 21 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. For instance, it is estimated that the fuel consumption of the 90,000 refuse collection trucks in the US is equivalent to 2.5 million passenger vehicles. Putting as few as 10,000 hybrid electric trucks on the road would reduce diesel fuel use by 7.2 million gallons per year and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 83,000 tons. Rep. Levin was joined in introducing this legislation by Reps. Blumenauer, Dingell, Artur Davis, Kildee, Peters, and Linda Sanchez (####)
07.27.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Economic Development Administration (EDA) of the Department of Commerce announced today that Lawrence Technological University will receive a $70,000 grant to study entrepreneurship, innovation, and product development in southeast Michigan. The study, which will include a focus on displaced automotive workers, will make recommendations to the Economic Development Administration on steps to improve the entrepreneurial infrastructure. “An important component to ongoing efforts to jumpstart Michigan’s economy is connecting Michigan’s skilled workers with new opportunities and supporting efforts to diversify our economy and build on our strengths,” said Rep. Levin. “I am very proud to see Lawrence Tech stepping up to the plate again and meeting a need in the community. In this case, examining how the engineering, scientific and technological talent of our region can create the jobs of the future.” According to Mark Brucki, Executive Director of Economic Development and Government Relations of Lawrence Tech, "The EDA grant allows us to identify unique opportunities to provide an environment and resources for product creation, innovation and job creation that are not being offered elsewhere in the State, the Great Lakes Region or the nation. "We are fortunate to have an alliance with and a $10,000 cash match from the Detroit Regional Chamber to help generate actionable outcomes from this EDA grant." (####)
07.24.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved the annual appropriations bill for transportation and housing today which included $4.6 billion for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), an increase of $725 million or 18.7 percent. The bill was approved by a vote of 256 to 168. “These resources allow communities to create programs that make real differences in the lives of countless families,” said Rep. Levin. “CDBG-funded housing rehabilitation programs ensure that broken furnaces are replaced in time for winter, and CDBG-funded investments in local parks and roads promote stronger neighborhoods.” The CDBG program provides direct federal funding to local governments to make needed investments that improve the quality of life in communities. These funds are used to rehabilitate housing, reconstruct residential streets, help fund domestic violence shelters, and fund important economic development initiatives. In 2009 the counties of Macomb and Oakland, and the communities within, received $11 million in CDBG funds. In addition to these funds, the Recovery Act provided $2.9 million for the counties and communities. Carlo Santia, Director of Planning and Community Development for Clinton Township said, “For some residents, the CDBG programs mean the difference in having a roof over their head and a safe place to sleep. This is an important program to address the needs of Clinton Township.” Clinton Township currently uses CDBG program funds for a variety of projects including housing rehabilitation, shelter services for battered women and children, yard maintenance for low-income seniors, and recreational programs for children. The legislation passed by the House today will also make needed investments to keep our transportation system safe, secure and up-to-date. It sets aside funds to build the next generation of high-speed passenger rail and also to improve and repair our nation’s aging highway system. The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act also invests in counseling to help families who are at risk of foreclosure stay in their homes and increases funding for rental vouchers and housing assistance for the disabled, elderly and homeless veterans. The measure must now be considered by the Senate. (####)
07.22.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives approved the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act today which requires Congress to offset the costs of new entitlement spending or tax cuts with savings elsewhere in the budget. Rep. Levin is a co-sponsor of the legislation, which passed by a vote of 265 to 166. “At the end of the 1990s, the federal government was balanced. We were actually running large budget surpluses and paying down the national debt. The pay-as-you-go rules that were in effect throughout the 1990s deserve a lot of credit,” said Rep. Levin. “In 2002, the pay-as-you-go rules expired and the Bush Administration and Republican-led Congress refused to extend them. The public debt nearly doubled under the previous Administration, rising from $3.4 trillion in 2001 to $6.3 trillion.” “We need to get back to commonsense budgeting. We know these pay-as-you-go rules can work.” The PAYGO bill passed today is similar to the statutory pay-as-you-go law that was in place in the 1990s, which compelled Congress to fully pay for new tax cuts and entitlement spending by identifying savings elsewhere in the budget. During the 1990s, the PAYGO rules helped balance the budget and turn massive deficits into record budget surpluses. President Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress allowed the PAYGO rules to expire in 2002, which contributed to the dramatic turnaround in the budget since 2001, adding trillions of dollars to the national debt and transforming a projected ten-year budget surplus of $5.6 trillion into a projected $4.5 trillion deficit. The House-passed bill is designed to force tough choices: the cost of any entitlement spending increase or tax cut would have to be paid for, rather than pushed onto future generations. Those who want to cut taxes will have to identify what spending we will have to do without because of that lost revenue. Likewise, PAYGO will require any increase in entitlement spending to be offset by spending decreases elsewhere, or by higher taxes. The bill requires Congress to offset all new policies that reduce revenues or expand entitlement spending over five and ten years. If Congress fails to do so, there would be an across-the-board cut in certain mandatory programs. Exceptions can be made for emergencies. (####)
07.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement after the American Medical Association endorsed H.R. 3200, the America’s Affordable Health Choices Act. “Doctors are on the front-lines of our health care system so the AMA ‘s comprehensive statement of support is a major validation of the path we are on to cover all Americans, reduce costs, increase prevention and improve quality of care,” said Rep. Levin. “Momentum is building for health care reform. I look forward to continuing the discussions with all key stakeholders until we have a comprehensive, cost-efficient and affordable health care system for all Americans,” Levin concluded. Both the Ways and Means Committee, on which Rep. Levin serves, and the Energy and Commerce Committees are considering H.R. 3200 today. The letter from the American Medical Association is attached and available here: https://www.ama-assn.org/amednews/2009/07/27/gvl10727.htm (####)
07.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), and Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statements following Ambassador Ron Kirk’s speech in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on the trade enforcement priorities of the Office of the United States Trade Representative: Chairman Rangel: “I welcome today’s remarks by Ambassador Kirk highlighting USTR’s renewed focus on enforcement,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel. “Ambassador Kirk and the Obama Administration recognize the need to ensure that our trading partners live up to their obligations. Ambassador Kirk’s initiative is a welcome step in getting U.S. trade policy back on track.” Chairman Levin: “USTR is sending a strong signal that expanding trade, enforcing existing agreements, and addressing unfair trade practices are equally important,” said Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin. “We can both expand and shape trade, and indeed, that is what is required to maximize the benefits of globalization, minimize the downsides, and ensure that trade is a two-way street. Ambassador Kirk’s statements today signal a new, more assertive approach, one that will help to restore faith among the public that we are standing up for U.S. businesses and workers in the global marketplace.” (####)
07.15.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin introduced bipartisan legislation with Rep. Geoff Davis of Kentucky today to expand and strengthen a tax deduction that encourages business donations to food banks and pantries. The legislation permanently extends the current tax deduction so that all business taxpayers are eligible and provides a two year increase in the amount of the deduction to address the increased need during the recession and economic recovery. “Across the country, 36 million people are at risk of hunger,” said Rep. Levin. “Families who have never needed emergency food aid before are now seeking assistance as a result of the current recession. This tax deduction is proven as an effective incentive, and the urgent need requires that we act to expand it.” Forgotten Harvest, a community service agency based in Oak Park, MI, and the second largest mobile food rescue in the nation, rescues more than 12 million pounds of donated food each year by collecting the donated food from a variety of business sources and distributing it free-of-charge to 150-plus emergency food providers in the metro Detroit area. “Our food donors tell us the tax deduction for food donation is a critical factor in their business decisions to donate, in addition to their commitments to help people in our community,” said Susan Ellis Goodell, Executive Director of Forgotten Harvest. “Today, we can’t begin to meet the rapidly growing demand for nutritious emergency food from our agencies who feed hungry people. We are confident the legislation that Rep. Levin proposes will ensure that more of the nutritious food currently feeding landfills will instead feed our people in need.” Nationwide food banks and pantries are seeing a 30% increase in demand for emergency food assistance, with some food banks reporting as high as a 65% increase in need, according to Feeding America. An astonishing 72% of food banks report that they are not able to adequately meet the needs of their communities without adjusting the amount of food distributed due to rising unemployment and food prices. About the LegislationUnder current law, businesses that donate food inventory to charity are eligible for a special deduction equal to their basis in the inventory plus one half the gain that would have been realized had the product been sold. The eligibility of business that are not C corporations, including farmers and ranchers, is set to expire at the end of this year. Rep. Levin’s legislation would permanently extend this deduction for contributions of food inventory to all business taxpayers. In addition, the legislation would provide a two year temporary increase in the amount of the deduction that business donors can take as a way to address the increased need during the recession and economic recovery. About Forgotten HarvestForgotten Harvest was formed in 1990 to fight two problems: hunger and waste. Forgotten Harvest will rescue more than 12 million pounds of food this year by collecting surplus prepared and perishable food from a variety of sources, including grocery stores, fruit and vegetable markets, restaurants, caterers, dairies, farmers, wholesale food distributors, and other Health Department-approved sources. This donated food, which would otherwise go to waste, is delivered absolutely free of charge to 150-plus emergency food providers in the metro Detroit area. The individuals and families served are as diverse as the community's residents – young and old, from all races and faiths. The common bond uniting them with each other and with Forgotten Harvest is hunger. Visit www.forgottenharvest.org. (####)
07.14.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The three House Committees (Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce and Education and Labor) responsible for health care legislation jointly introduced legislation to advance health care reform today. The Ways and Means Committee, on which Rep. Levin serves, will consider the legislation on Thursday. “Meetings I have had at home have emphasized that residents, based on their very direct experiences and needs, want reform of our health care system. If they like the coverage and care they have, folks want to keep it. They understand the need for reforms to make our health care system more efficient and bring down the costs of their insurance and other health costs. They want more prevention, more primary care services, an end to limits on pre-existing conditions, and coverage for all Americans,” said Rep. Levin. “This legislation is an important first step in meeting these needs and fulfilling these expectations. I will continue to work for further reform of our payment systems that not only reduce costs, but incentivize coordination of delivery and quality of care. Health care reform is important for individuals and vital to the competiveness of our businesses.” Rep. Levin is hosting an online video town hall to take questions and comments regarding the health care legislation. Individuals may ask questions and vote on the questions they want Rep. Levin to answer. The town hall can be accessed here: https://bit.ly/qXs0a Quick Facts on Health Care in Michigan • 11 percent of people in Michigan are uninsured, and 61 percent of them are in families with at least one full-time worker.• Since 2000 alone, average family premiums have increased by 94 percent in Michigan. • Household budgets are strained by high costs: 19 percent of middle-income Michigan families spend more than 10 percent of their income on health care.• High costs block access to care: 12 percent of people in Michigan report not visiting a doctor due to high costs.• Roughly 6.6 million people in Michigan get health insurance on the job, where family premiums average $13,250, about the annual earning of a full-time minimum wage job. The percent of Michiganders with employer coverage is declining though: from 74 to 66 percent between 2000 and 2007.• While small businesses make up 78 percent of Michigan businesses, only 41 percent of them offered health coverage benefits in 2006 -- down 13 percent since 2000.• Michigan businesses and families shoulder a hidden health tax of roughly $900 per year on premiums as a direct result of subsidizing the costs of the uninsured. (####)
07.10.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the New GM created today. “GM’s new day is one of pride in the past and hope for the future,” said Rep. Levin. “The domestic industry that helped to create the middle class must survive and thrive in the U.S. I am hopeful in GM’s future because GM and their workers are ready for this next and important chapter. “The federal government must quickly finalize guidelines for the new fleet modernization voucher program, make additional retooling loans available to Chrysler and GM, improve trade and tax policies, and implement Recovery programs for workers and communities.” (####)
07.09.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed the Agriculture Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 by a vote of 266-160 today. Representative Levin submitted the following statement into the record regarding the legislation. Last Thursday I attended an event back home in Michigan where a coalition of community organizations came together and committed to delivering 575,000 meals to those in need this summer in southeast Michigan. The Ford Foundation and two Ford dealerships provided new mobile pantries. Gleaners Community Food Bank, Forgotten Harvest, and the United Way are partnering to ensure that the pantries will be fully stocked and sent to the areas which need it the most. The need for assistance in our country is staggering. In southeast Michigan 600,000 people are at risk of hunger. Food banks and pantries nationwide are seeing a 30% increase in demand for emergency food assistance, with some food banks reporting as high as a 65% increase in need, according to Feeding America. An astonishing 72% of food banks report that they are not able to adequately meet the needs of their communities without adjusting the amount of food distributed due to rising unemployment and food prices. The federal government has a vital role to play in providing emergency food assistance. We provided some relief in the Recovery Act earlier this year. The Agriculture Appropriation bill before the House continues this investment by providing a 10% increase to the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) food aid program as well as a $19.6 million increase for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program. I want to highlight the Commodity Supplemental Food Program because it reaches out to low-income seniors – a group of people who too often fall through the cracks of our food safety net. The program, which has 41,000 monthly participants in southeast Michigan, comes from a partnership between the government and local community organizations. Ninety-three percent of CSFP participants are seniors and many who receive delivery of their food packages are unable to leave their homes. The food packages, as well as the visit from the volunteer, are important in assisting them to maintain their independence and a healthier lifestyle. Under this bill, the CSFP will be able to increase the number of eligible individuals who participate for the first time since 2003. The program, which currently operates in only 32 states, will expand to six new states, some of which have programs and seniors that have been waiting for six years. The program will grow in Michigan and overall expand from 475,000 participants to 622,000. Much more must be done. I will introduce legislation soon that will provide an additional incentive for farmers, ranchers, small businesses, and restaurateurs to donate wholesome food to food banks and pantries to replenish the shelves for hungry Americans. According to a report released by USDA last November, 36.2 million Americans, including 12.4 million children, are food insecure. The report paints a stark picture of the pervasiveness of hunger in our nation, a picture that has only grown worse as the recession has deepened since the report data was collected in 2007. Hunger puts our children’s health, learning, and development at risk; hunger causes unnecessary pain and suffering on already stressed working poor families, and hunger causes our elderly to make difficult choices between buying food or medicine. I applaud the work of the community organizations who work tirelessly to alleviate hunger, and the Appropriations Committee for providing them with more resources. Hunger poses a real threat to our children, seniors, and everyone in our communities. Our progress is important, but we cannot stop here. (####)
07.09.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Senator Byron Dorgan, Chairman and Representative Sander Levin, Cochairman of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China (CECC) made the following statement on the Chinese government’s response to demonstrations in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region of China: “We are deeply saddened by recent reports of deaths and injuries in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region of China, and express our heartfelt sympathy to Uyghur and Han Chinese individuals and their families who have suffered. “We note with great interest that Chinese and foreign media are present in the region, which is an important development. We continue to hear reports, however, of restrictions on reporters’ activities and of other controls over the free flow of information. These restrictions hamper reporting on these important events, and a number of details about the demonstrations remain unknown. “We call on the Chinese government, when addressing recent events in Xinjiang, to abide by its domestic and international commitments to protects citizens’ human rights and promote the rule of law. We also urge the Chinese government to address the longstanding grievances of the Uyghur people that in part gave rise to the recent demonstrations. “Specifically, we call on the Chinese government to: Honor the Chinese Constitution's guarantees for the freedoms of speech and association, distinguish between acts of peaceful protest and acts of violence, and not treat peaceful protest as a crime. Allow international observers and journalists immediate and unfettered access to the Xinjiang. Provide details about each person detained or charged with a crime, including each person's name, the charges (if any) against each person, the name and location of the prosecuting office and court handling each case, and the name of each facility where a person is detained or imprisoned. Ensure that security officials fulfill their obligations under Articles 64(2) and 71(2) of China’s Criminal Procedure Law to inform relatives and work places where detainees are being held. Allow access by diplomats and other international observers to the trials of people charged with protest-related crimes. “As we in the United States well know, ethnic, racial and cultural diversity is a tremendous national asset. We urge China to draw strength from its own diversity, and to fully implement its own laws and policies that protect the rights of all citizens equally. (####)
07.06.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding court approval for the exit of GM’s good assets from bankruptcy. “The process set in motion to reinvent GM has thankfully moved forward quicker than expected,” said Rep. Levin. “This is an important benchmark in the launch of the ‘New’ GM, which hopefully will soon be able to turn its full attention and engagement to selling cars and aggressively developing advanced technologies for the next generation of vehicles. “The painful sacrifices made by employees and other key stakeholders and the investments made by the federal government made this progress possible. However, there is still much more work to be done. The federal government must quickly finalize guidelines for the new fleet modernization voucher program to get consumers back in the showrooms, and retooling loans must be made available for the new domestic car companies so the important work of revitalizing the industry can continue.” (####)
07.06.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The US Department of Energy released $288 million in weatherization assistance funds today, including $97.3 million for Michigan. Macomb County received $3.2 million and Oakland County received $4.4 million. The counties previously received funds for training and ramp-up activities, and will be eligible for additional funds ($4 million for Macomb and $5.5 million for Oakland) after the state meets reporting guidelines. The funding, to be administered by Macomb County Community Services Agency and Oakland Livingston Human Services Agency respectively, will provide home energy audits and weatherization improvements to local eligible homeowners. “Weatherization assistance not only helps Michigan families lower their utility bills, but it also creates local job opportunities,” said Rep. Levin. “The Recovery Act invests in programs like this to create jobs, reduce energy use and save consumers money.” The Weatherization Assistance Program is available to families making up to 200 percent of the federal poverty level – or about $44,000 a year for a family of four. Homes selected to participate in the program will receive a unique audit to determine which weatherization activities are most cost effective. Some of the most common procedures include the repair, insulation, and sealing of ducts and the installation of insulation in walls and attics. Weatherization funds can also be used to install energy efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs and replace energy consuming refrigerators and water heaters. The Recovery Act allocated $5 billion for weatherization. After Michigan demonstrates successful implementation of funding released thus far, the state will receive over $121 million in additional funding, for a total of more than $243 million. The final release of funding will complete the Macomb and Oakland allocations. For more information: Macomb County Community Services Agency: https://www.macombcountymi.gov/MCCSA/wx.htm Oakland Livingston Human Services Agency: https://www.olhsa.org/doe.asp?catID=3&cty=oak (####)
07.02.2009	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) is pleased to sponsor Marley Ward, a junior at South Lake High School for the Congressional Page Program offered by the U.S. House of Representatives. Ms. Ward will serve as a Congressional Page from July 5 through August 1, 2009 in Washington, D.C. “The Congressional Page Program gives high school students the opportunity to learn about Congress; living together right near the Capitol, and working as support staff for the House of Representatives. Pages are given a first-hand look at how federal policy is made in our nation's capital,” said Rep. Levin, who represents the 12th district. “While working on the House floor, the pages gain hands-on experience with the legislative process.” “Marley is an accomplished young leader, and I am pleased to have her join me in Washington,” said Levin. Marley Ward is a junior at South Lake High School in St. Clair Shores, Michigan, where she has served as an officer of the Student Council, a member of the National Honor Society and a member of the School Culture committee of the South Lake School Board. Marley also participants in the diversity and leadership organization Generation of Promise (through Focus Hope). “Marley is intelligent, articulate, prompt, reliable, energetic, thoughtful, creative and above all, committed to making a difference.” said Eleanor Josiatis, co-founder of Focus Hope. (####)
07.02.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the national jobs report released today by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) Bureau of Labor Statistics. “The numbers behind the national unemployment rate point to a jobs crisis and deepening economic urgency for millions of individuals and their families,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “The difficulty of this economic downturn must not be understated or underestimated as we accelerate recovery efforts and take additional steps to support families.” “Michigan is ground zero for these national numbers and they spotlight the need for the Michigan State Senate to stop blocking $138 million in federal money from reaching unemployed workers in Michigan,” said Rep. Levin. “And even as the federal government has approved the longest extension of unemployment benefits in history, we must prepare to act in the face of hundreds of thousands of individuals exhausting benefits these next months.” “Currently, Michigan’s regular unemployment program covers only 42% of unemployed workers. We fought to include a provision in the Recovery so there was incentive money on the table to encourage states to improve their unemployment eligibility rules and include more workers who have been laid off through no fault of their own,” said Rep. Levin. “Congress made $207.5 million available for Michigan, but the State Senate is blocking $138 million of those funds from reaching workers. The State Senate should act immediately to pass these bills and allow this money to help workers and boost Michigan’s economy.” Michigan qualified for the first third of the funds available because the state already allows workers to use their recent earnings to qualify for benefits. Two bills pending in the Michigan State Senate would enable more Michigan workers to qualify for unemployment insurance and provide Michigan an additional $138 million in federal funding. These bills, HB 4785 and HB 4786, extend benefits for people in training programs and allow people seeking part time work to qualify for unemployment benefits. The part-time provisions alone would extend benefits to over 22 thousand people. The Michigan House passed the bills on May 6th, but the State Senate has failed to act. “These Michigan residents have worked enough to meet the existing wage eligibility requirements, and the state law should be changed to allow them to receive benefits when they need it the most,” concluded Rep. Levin. (####)
06.26.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin issued the following statement after General Motors chose the Orion Township plant for construction of a new, small, fuel-efficient car: “GM’s decision to make its new investment in small car production in Michigan is recognition of the strength of the Michigan workforce and collaborative efforts to address all outstanding issues at the Orion Township facility,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Small cars can be built in our country rather than being built in other places. Because of the restructuring efforts and full participation by the workers, we now have all three domestic automakers making this type of investment in the U.S. This is important to preserve jobs and prepare to launch the advanced technologies of the future.” (####)
06.26.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act by a vote of 219 to 212 today. By limiting the pollutants which cause global warming, the legislation greatly expands the market for clean energy, invests in advanced research, reduces our dependence on foreign oil, and spurs millions of new jobs. “Action on climate change is a policy, and indeed, a moral imperative,” said Rep. Levin on the Floor of the House. “Prompt action is a vital part of our legacy to the nation and to our children and grandchildren.” “As we act, we can and must ensure that the U.S. energy-intensive industries are not placed at a competitive disadvantage by nations that have not made a similar commitment to reduce greenhouse gases.” Rep. Levin authored trade provisions included in the bill to ensure that the United States is not placed at a competitive disadvantage if it takes responsible action to address global climate change and other nations do not. This is the so-called “carbon and job leakage” issue: the risk that greenhouse gas emissions and jobs will simply move from the United States to countries that adopt less stringent or no restrictions to address climate change. “We have developed reasonable and effective provisions which involve the President and the Congress in taking action, no more than is necessary to ensure that this important legislation is trade neutral for our energy intensive industries,” said Rep. Levin. “We want to see a meaningful international agreement. If we are unable to do that through an international agreement, this legislation ensures that the United States will avoid carbon leakage in its energy intensive and trade sensitive industries.” Key Provisions of the American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACES): Require electric utilities to meet 20% of their electricity demand through renewable energy sources and energy efficiency by 2010. Invest in a new clean energy technologies and energy efficiency, including energy efficiency and renewable energy ($90 billion in new investments by 2025), carbon and sequestration ($60 billion), electric and other advanced technology vehicles ($20 billion), and basic scientific research and development ($20 billion). Mandate new energy-saving standards for buildings, appliances, and basic industry. Reduce carbon emissions from U.S. sources by 17% by 2020 and over by 80% by 2025 compared to 2005 levels. Complementary measures in the legislation, such as investments in preventing tropical deforestation, will achieve significant additional reductions in carbon emissions. Keeping Costs Low Transition off foreign oil and creating millions of jobs will have minimal impact on average households—just 22 to 30 cents a day—less than a postage stamp – or $80 to $111 per year [EPA]. The bill helps all consumers with price spike protection, and with additional monthly energy refunds so those in need will see no cost. Invest in energy efficiency technology will save the average American household more than $4,000 by 2030 [ACEEE]. Ensure fiscal responsibility. CBO says the bill meets PAYGO requirements and will not increase the deficit. The bill takes a balanced approach that has received broad support from members of Congress from all regions of the country. The legislation is backed by a coalition that includes electric utilities, consumer groups, car companies, manufacturers, environmental organizations, labor organizations, among many others. (####)
06.26.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House approved legislation today to provide $475 million for a new Great Lakes restoration effort. The funding, approved as part of the annual funding bill for the Department of the Interior and Environmental Protection Agency, passed by a vote of 254-173. “The Great Lakes are Michigan’s crown jewels,” said Rep. Levin. “A comprehensive effort is needed to protect and restore them. Today’s action by the House begins this effort.” At the urging of Rep. Levin and others in the Michigan Congressional Delegation, the EPA bill includes the full $475 million requested by President Obama for a new Great Lakes Restoration initiative. This initiative will begin to address longstanding problems in the Great Lakes, including invasive species, non-point pollution, habitat and fisheries loss, and contaminated sediment. The House-passed bill also includes a large increase in federal assistance to help states and localities finance and build clean water infrastructure projects. The bill now goes to the Senate which much also approve the Great Lakes funding. (####)
06.24.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin urged Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and Dr. Ed Montgomery to quickly implement the new Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for Communities program. The program is designed to provide aid to communities when a key trade-affected industry closes or downsizes and creates severe economic challenges for an entire community. The program was created in the Trade and Globalization Act approved as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and received a $40 million appropriation in the Supplemental Appropriation that President Obama signed into law today. “This new program comes at a very important time as Michigan communities are being notified of additional plant closures and need assistance to devise local economic redevelopment strategies,” said Rep. Levin. “The TAA for Communities program can help to support, leverage and effectuate comprehensive and community-based re-development efforts.” Rep. Levin was one of the principle authors of Trade and Globalization Act which expanded TAA to cover more workers and provide more training resources and he fought to include these provisions in the Recovery Act. Below is the full text of the letter. Dear Secretary Locke and Dr. Montgomery: As part of the American Recovery and Revitalization Act of 2009, Congress enacted the Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act of 2009, which expanded and overhauled the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program and created a new TAA for Communities program to provide broader assistance when the closure or downsizing of a key industry, company or plant creates severe economic challenges for an entire community impacted by trade. Because of the importance of this program, Congress acted quickly to provide $40 million for the TAA for Communities program and the existing TAA for Firms program in the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009, which has been presented to President Obama for his signature. It is essential that the Communities program become operational quickly. The Supplemental Appropriation Act’s Joint Explanatory Statement states that “within 60 days of the enactment of this Act, the Department is directed to submit a plan to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations as to how this program will be implemented,” but I hope you will act even quicker than that timeframe. This program is an important opportunity for auto-impacted communities. Indeed, when President Obama named Dr. Montgomery as the director of the new Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers program, he stated: When a community is struck by a natural disaster, the nation responds to put it back on its feet.... While the storm that has hit our auto towns is not a tornado or a hurricane, the damage is clear, and we must likewise respond. The TAA for Communities program is designed to address the very problem that the President describes. Under the program, the Secretary of Commerce provides technical assistance to an affected community to assist it to (1) diversify and strengthen its economy; (2) identify impediments to economic development; (3) develop a community strategic plan to address economic adjustment and workforce dislocation; and (4) implement a strategic plan designed to foster the community’ economic adjustment. As there is little doubt that many of these auto communities are trade-impacted, they would be eligible for the robust assistance that the program offers. Therefore the implementation of this program comes at a very important time as communities are being notified of additional plant closures and need assistance to devise local economic redevelopment strategies made even more difficult by the current economic downturn and ongoing credit crisis. The TAA for Communities program can help to support, leverage and effectuate comprehensive and community-based re-development efforts. As one of the authors of the TAA overhaul, I would welcome the opportunity to discuss with you the implementation of the Communities program, especially because communities within the 12th Congressional District have both past experience with the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process that led to the transfer of federal property for local development and present need with the restructuring underway in the auto industry. Sincerely, Sander LevinMember of Congress (####)
06.23.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Energy has announced today that Ford Motor Company, Tesla Motors, and Nissan USA are the recipients of federally subsidized retooling loans. The loans were authorized under the Advanced Technology Vehicle Incentive Program (ATVIP) in Section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. “The loans made today are an important step toward ensuring that the next generation of automobiles is designed and built in the United States,” said Rep. Levin. “The projects announced today offer an exciting look at the cars of the future and a revitalized domestic auto industry. I look forward to seeing additional investments financed through this program, including those at GM, Chrysler, and the companies of the automotive supply base.” Rep. Levin has introduced legislation to increase the amount of loans available to help automakers and suppliers retool to manufacture advanced technology vehicles and components. The bill, H.R 2150, would amend Section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act to increase the amount of retooling loans available under the Advanced Technology Vehicle Incentive Program (ATVMIP) from $25 billion to $50 billion. This legislation has been included in H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act, as reported by the Energy and Commerce Committee. “We need to move quickly to expand this program so that even in today’s difficult credit market all automakers serious about retooling for the future have the opportunity to do so,” Rep. Levin concluded. (####)
06.19.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin, a member of the Ways and Means committee with jurisdiction over health care legislation, made the following statement on the Draft Legislation released today by three House Committees (Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce and Education and Labor). “The discussion draft contains considerable detail in order to stimulate the fullest possible input from the public and all interested parties,” said Rep. Levin. “We will accelerate the efforts to date to improve upon and resolve all key aspects of reform, including changes in the payment structure aimed at reducing costs while enhancing quality and coordination.” “If you like your current health plan, you will be able to keep it. But it is clear that our nation wants us to fix what’s not working by reducing costs, increasing prevention, improving quality, and covering uninsured Americans,” said Rep. Levin. The key provisions of the House Democratic discussion draft for health care include, among other things: Increasing choice and competition. First, the proposal would protect and improve consumers’ choices. • If you like your current plan, you will be able to keep it. • For individuals who either aren’t currently covered, or want to enroll in a new health care plan, the proposal would establishes a health care exchange where consumers can select from a menu of affordable, quality health care options: either a new public health insurance plan or a plan offered by private insurers. People will have similar choices that Members of Congress have. • This new marketplace would reduce costs, create competition that leads to better care for every American, and keep private insurers honest. Patients and doctors would have control over decisions about their health care. Giving Americans peace of mind. Second, the proposal would ensure that Americans have portable, secure health care plans – so that they wouldn’t lose care if their employer drops their plan or they lose their job. • Prohibits insurance companies from denying coverage or charging more based on pre-existing conditions. • Caps out-of-pocket expenses and guarantees coverage that won’t leave people in danger of financial hardship due to medical expenses. Improving quality of care for every American. Third, the proposal would ensure that Americans of all ages, from young children to retirees have access to greater quality of care by focusing on prevention, wellness and strengthening programs that work. • Guarantees that every child in America will have health care coverage that includes dental and vision benefits. • Provides better preventative and wellness care. Every health care plan offered through the exchange would cover preventative care. • Grows the health care workforce to ensure that more doctors and nurses are available to provide quality care as more Americans get coverage. • Strengthens Medicare and Medicaid so that seniors and low-income Americans receive better quality of care and see lower prescription drug costs and out-of-pocket expenses. Ensuring shared responsibility. Fourth, the draft would ensure that individuals, employers and the federal government all share responsibility for a quality and affordable health care system. • Employers who currently offer coverage would be able to continue offering coverage to workers. Employers who don’t currently offer coverage could choose to pay for their workers to gain health care coverage or pay a penalty. • All individuals would be required to get coverage, either through their employer or the exchange, or pay a penalty. • The federal government would provide affordability credits, available on a sliding scale for low- and middle-income individuals and families to make premiums affordable and reduce cost-sharing. Protecting consumers and reduces waste, fraud and abuse. Fifth, the proposal would put the interests of consumers first, protect them from any problems in getting and keeping health care coverage, and reduce waste, fraud and abuse. • Provides complete transparency in plans in the health exchange so that consumers have the clear, complete information needed to select the plan that best meets their needs. • Establishes Consumer Advocacy Offices as part of the exchange to protect consumers, answer questions and assist with any problems related to their plans. • Simplifies paperwork and other administrative burdens. Patients, doctors, nurses, insurance companies, providers and employers would all encounter a streamlined, less confusing, more consumer friendly system. (####)
06.18.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Representative Sander Levin introduced the Healthcare Improvements for Generating High Performance (or HIGH Performance) Act today which would establish a network of technical assistance centers to help health care providers implement clinical, managerial, and health care delivery best practices. “It currently takes 17 years for an established clinical guideline to reach bedside. Patients receive recommended evidence-based therapies only 55% of the time,” said Rep. Levin, senior member on the Ways and Means Committee. “This legislation will give doctors tools they need to bring cutting-edge knowledge and techniques to patients in a fraction of the time it currently takes.” In early 2004, the hospital-acquired infection rates in Michigan hospitals were higher than the national average, and in some hospitals they were much higher. The Michigan Health and Hospital Association decided to form the Keystone Center for Patient Safety & Quality to help Michigan hospitals implement best practices for preventing infections in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). In the first three months of this initiative, the infection rate in Michigan’s ICUs dropped by 66 percent. Over the course of 18 months, Michigan ICU’s infection rates fell so low that they outperformed 90% of ICUs nationwide. “Michigan has been a leader in providing technical assistance to its hospitals to implement best practices in health care. As a result of its initiatives, Michigan’s hospitals are now among the highest-performing in the country. For example, Michigan’s hospitals now outperform 90% of hospitals nationwide when it comes to preventing hospital-acquired infections. Over the course of 18 months Michigan hospitals saved $75 million and over 1500 lives by implementing best practices. If we achieved these results nationwide it is estimated that we could save $13 billion over 10 years,” said Rep. Levin. “The HIGH Performance Act builds on Michigan’s successes to make technical assistance available to doctors and hospitals nationwide to train them in the use of best practices for improving patient outcomes and preventing medical errors,” Rep. Levin concluded. The Institute of Medicine estimates that up to 98,000 people die every year from medical errors, and up to 100,000 from hospital-acquired infections. More people die from these causes than from AIDS, motor-vehicle wrecks, or breast cancer combined. Legislation Details The Center for Health Extension: The Healthcare Improvements for Generating High Performance (or HIGH Performance) Act creates a national network of technical assistance centers that will focus on helping providers implement best practices for clinical treatments and health care delivery. The national coordinating body, called the Center for Health Extension, will facilitate, coordinate, and conduct research into health care delivery best practices that have long been underemphasized. The legislation also charges Secretary of Health and Human Services with establishing priorities for health care improvement that will inform the activities of the Center and other HHS quality improvement initiatives. The Center’s Mission: To improve health care quality by assisting health care providers to implement and improve upon clinical, managerial, and health care delivery best practices, and to evaluate progress in improving patient outcomes. The Center’s Functions: 1. Conduct and synthesize research on best practices for clinical treatments, management, and health care delivery 2. Work directly with hospitals, physicians, and other health care providers to implement best clinical, managerial, and delivery practices 3. Collect data on health care quality improvement resulting from technical assistance activities, including improvement in patient outcomes 4. Analyze and report on the effectiveness of quality improvement activities, including patient outcomes The Center’s Structure: The Center for Health Extension will have a national headquarters and regional extension centers that will work in the field with health care providers to improve care. It will coordinate with existing federal and private entities working toward health care quality improvement. (####)
06.17.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Labor yesterday certified the release of $69.4 million in unemployment insurance (UI) modernization incentive funds, roughly one third of the total UI funds available for Michigan. Michigan could receive another $138 million, but the Michigan State Senate has failed to act on the necessary legislation. Congress made these funds available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act) to states that incorporate certain improvements into their unemployment insurance laws. “Currently, Michigan’s regular unemployment program covers only 42% of unemployed workers. We fought to include a provision in the Recovery so there was incentive money on the table to encourage states to improve their unemployment eligibility rules and include more workers who have been laid off through no fault of their own,” said Rep. Levin. “Congress made $207.5 million available for Michigan, but the State Senate is blocking $138 million of those funds from reaching workers. The State Senate should act immediately to pass these bills and allow this money to help workers and boost Michigan’s economy.” Michigan qualified for the first third of the funds available because the state already allows workers to use their recent earnings to qualify for benefits. Two bills pending in the Michigan State Senate would enable more Michigan workers to qualify for unemployment insurance and provide Michigan an additional $138 million in federal funding. These bills, HB 4785 and HB 4786, extend benefits for people in training programs and allow people seeking part time work to qualify for unemployment benefits. The part-time provisions alone would extend benefits to over 22 thousand people. The Michigan House passed the bills on May 6th, but the State Senate has failed to act. “These Michigan residents have worked enough to meet the existing wage eligibility requirements, and the state law should be changed to allow them to receive benefits when they need it the most,” concluded Rep. Levin. Economists widely agree that unemployment benefits are among the most effective and quickest ways to strengthen the economy. Experts testified before Congress that every dollar of extended unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in increased economic activity. (####)
06.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives passed legislation today which included $1 billion to provide consumers with an incentive to recycle their older vehicles and replace them with new, cleaner, and more fuel efficient models. The Fleet Modernization provisions were included in a Supplemental Appropriations bill for funding ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, pandemic flu response, and other needs. The House approved the bill on a vote of 226 to 202. The House-passed bill includes the authorization for the Fleet Modernization program, which the House previously approved last week, as well as $1 billion to fund the new program. The Senate is expected to take up the Supplemental funding bill later this week and send it to the President, who has indicated his support. “The domestic automakers are getting back on their feet and this legislation will be a shot in the arm -- sales,” said Rep Levin. “Sales are at historic lows because of the recession and global financial crisis and these vouchers will help families, car companies and dealerships, as well as update the cars on the road.” Program Details The legislation establishes the ‘CARS’ Program at the Department of Transportation, which would be required to circulate implementing regulations within 30 days. The program will run for one year following implementation and is authorized for $4 billion which will provide for the purchase of approximately one million new vehicles. Older Trade-In Vehicles:• Must be in drivable condition;• Have been continuously insured to the same owner for at least one year immediately prior to trade-in;• Manufactured in model year 1984 or later; and• Have a combined fuel economy of 18 mpg or less. New Vehicles (divided in to 4 categories) - The mpg values are EPA combined city/highway fuel economy as posted on the window sticker of the new vehicle. • Passenger Cars: New passenger cars with mileage of at least 22 mpg are eligible for vouchers. If the mileage of the new car is at least 4 mpg higher than the old vehicle, the voucher will be worth $3,500. If the mileage of the new car is at least 10 mpg higher than the old vehicle, the voucher will be worth $4,500. • Light-Duty Trucks: New light trucks or SUVs with mileage of at least 18 mpg are eligible for vouchers. If the mileage of the new truck or SUV is at least 2 mpg higher than the old truck, the voucher will be worth $3,500. If the mileage of the new truck or SUV is at least 5 mpg higher than the old truck, the voucher will be worth $4,500. • Large Light-Duty Trucks: New large trucks (pick-up trucks and vans weighing between 6,000 and 8,500 pounds) with mileage of at least 15 mpg are eligible for vouchers. If the mileage of the new truck is at least 1 mpg higher than the old truck, the voucher will be worth $3,500. If the mileage of the new truck is at least 2 mpg higher than the old truck, the voucher will be worth $4,500. • Work Trucks: Consumers can trade in a pre-2002 work truck (defined as a pick-up truck or cargo van weighing from 8,500-10,000 pounds) and receive a voucher worth $3,500 for a new work truck in the same or smaller weight class. Vouchers are limited to 7.5 percent of total funds. There are no EPA mileage measures for these trucks; however, because newer models are cleaner than older models, the age requirement ensures that the trade will improve environmental quality. Consumers can also “trade down,” receiving a $3,500 voucher for trading in an older work truck and purchasing a smaller light-duty truck weighing from 6,000 – 8,500 pounds. • Consumers must trade-in a vehicle with a maximum combined city/highway fuel economy of 18 mpg or less to be eligible for vehicle purchase vouchers. Work trucks must be traded in for work trucks. • Vehicle lease terms must be for minimum of five years. • Eligible new vehicles must have a MSRP of $45,000 or less. (####)
06.12.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Treasury Department announced today that nearly $2 billion in bond authority will be immediately available for the state and local governments in Michigan under the Recovery Zone Bonds program. Recovery Zone Bonds, created under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act are targeted to areas particularly affected by significant job loss and will help state and local governments raise capital for economic development projects. “Cities and counties will be able to decide, for themselves, the best use of this financing mechanism - whether its construction projects or the financing of new business development,” said Rep. Levin. “Recovery bonds are an important new tool for the state and local governments as we all work toward economic recovery.” The program includes two new types of Recovery Zone Bonds – Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds and Recovery Zone Facility Bonds. Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds can be used by state and local governments to finance a wide range of public economic development projects. These bonds lower borrowing costs through a new direct federal payment subsidy for 45 percent of the interest. Recovery Zone Facility Bonds can be used by state and local governments to help private businesses finance investment in designated recovery zones. Issuers are able to obtain lower interest rates than would otherwise be the case because the interest is exempt from federal income tax. (####)
06.10.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the completion of the alliance between Chrysler and Fiat. “Now this new company can get about the business of selling cars and stepping up a full alliance of advanced technologies essential to the future of the auto industry,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “The completion of the restructuring in just over 40 days while difficult was a much preferable outcome than liquidation of this iconic company which would have had devastating impact on jobs, our communities, and among the entire auto supply and industrial base of our country.” (####)
06.09.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to provide consumers with an incentive to recycle their older vehicles and replace them with new, cleaner, and more fuel efficient models. H.R. 2751, the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save (CARS) Program, was passed by a vote of 298-119. Rep. Levin is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. “Auto sales are at historic lows because the financial crisis has dried up consumer’s access to car loans and the overall economy has shaken their confidence that they can afford what is a family’s second largest purchase after their home,” said Rep. Levin. “This bill supports consumers during this downturn. It supports the auto industry, manufacturing jobs, and car dealerships by boosting sales during this difficult restructuring period.” Program Details The legislation establishes the ‘CARS’ Program at the Department of Transportation, which would be required to circulate implementing regulations within 30 days. The program will run for one year following implementation and is authorized for $4 billion which will provide for the purchase of approximately one million new vehicles. Older Trade-In Vehicles:• Must be in drivable condition;• Have been continuously insured to the same owner for at least one year immediately prior to trade-in;• Manufactured in model year 1984 or later; and• Have a combined fuel economy of 18 mpg or less. New Vehicles (divided in to 4 categories) - The mpg values are EPA combined city/highway fuel economy as posted on the window sticker of the new vehicle. • Passenger Cars: New passenger cars with mileage of at least 22 mpg are eligible for vouchers. If the mileage of the new car is at least 4 mpg higher than the old vehicle, the voucher will be worth $3,500. If the mileage of the new car is at least 10 mpg higher than the old vehicle, the voucher will be worth $4,500. • Light-Duty Trucks: New light trucks or SUVs with mileage of at least 18 mpg are eligible for vouchers. If the mileage of the new truck or SUV is at least 2 mpg higher than the old truck, the voucher will be worth $3,500. If the mileage of the new truck or SUV is at least 5 mpg higher than the old truck, the voucher will be worth $4,500. • Large Light-Duty Trucks: New large trucks (pick-up trucks and vans weighing between 6,000 and 8,500 pounds) with mileage of at least 15 mpg are eligible for vouchers. If the mileage of the new truck is at least 1 mpg higher than the old truck, the voucher will be worth $3,500. If the mileage of the new truck is at least 2 mpg higher than the old truck, the voucher will be worth $4,500. • Work Trucks: Consumers can trade in a pre-2002 work truck (defined as a pick-up truck or cargo van weighing from 8,500-10,000 pounds) and receive a voucher worth $3,500 for a new work truck in the same or smaller weight class. Vouchers are limited to 7.5 percent of total funds. There are no EPA mileage measures for these trucks; however, because newer models are cleaner than older models, the age requirement ensures that the trade will improve environmental quality. Consumers can also “trade down,” receiving a $3,500 voucher for trading in an older work truck and purchasing a smaller light-duty truck weighing from 6,000 – 8,500 pounds. • Consumers must trade-in a vehicle with a maximum combined city/highway fuel economy of 18 mpg or less to be eligible for vehicle purchase vouchers. Work trucks must be traded in for work trucks. • Vehicle lease terms must be for minimum of five years. • Eligible new vehicles must have a MSRP of $45,000 or less. (####)
06.02.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin, who worked to get a new Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program included in the Recovery Act, issued the following statement about the supplemental allocation of TAA funds for Michigan. “An important part of the Recovery Act was the inclusion of a totally revamped Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program and Michigan is now seeing the benefit of this expanded program, said Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “Because we nearly tripled the money available for training workers, the Department of Labor is now able to immediately make this additional funding available to Michigan totaling close to $50 million.” Secretary Solis is to make this funding announcement at an event in Michigan this morning. Michigan is estimated to receive one of the largest supplemental allocations in the nation. The additional money is broken down as follows: Training - $43.1 millionAdministration and Case Management - $6.9 million This supplemental allocation is in addition to the normal allocation a state receives each year based on the number of TAA eligible workers they have in the program. In Michigan, the base 2009 funding was $9.6 million and in 2008 Michigan ended up receiving $28 million for the entire year. The total amount now for 2009 is double the amount Michigan received in 2008. “Unlike past recessions when many workers returned to their same jobs, the Michigan economy is undergoing a transformation that requires training for new careers as we fight to preserve the auto industry and the jobs it provides,” said Rep. Levin. “There are good training opportunities around the State, but too often workers are on waiting lists because of a lack of resources.” Background In 2008, the TAA overhaul was approved in the U.S. House only to be stymied in the Senate. At the beginning of 2009, Rep. Levin worked to reach agreement with the Senate so the new program could be incorporated into the Recovery legislation.The overhauled TAA program has many important impacts in Michigan as the program was expanded to cover more workers and make the benefits more flexible and accessible. Key expansions include: • expands eligibility to workers in services industries and the public sector• includes an automatic eligibility for workers suffering from unfair trade and import surges. • Expands eligibility for manufacturers of component parts• increases funds available for training programs by nearly 160 percent and provides more flexible training• makes health care more available and affordable for covered workers • assists trade-affected American firms become more competitive• creates new opportunities for workers in communities negatively affected by trade• makes benefits available to workers whose jobs are offshored to any country, like China, as opposed to those the U.S. has free trade agreements with, as was the case in the previous law. (####)
06.01.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the bankruptcy filing by General Motors. “The accelerated downsizing of General Motors brings significant pain for families and communities even as we now have important assurance of the long-term viability of this restructured company. “Because of the leadership of the UAW, and the willingness of the workers to make additional sacrifice to preserve GM’s future, GM enters bankruptcy with important agreements in place that should facilitate a quicker exit from court. Workers and suppliers will continue to get paid, and health care and pension benefit obligations will move forward with the new company. “Chrysler’s exit from bankruptcy today and their ability to finalize an agreement with Fiat is an important indicator of the ability of all stakeholders, with the support of the Federal government, to come together to preserve a vital company’s future. “We must re-double our efforts to support suppliers during this next period and the families and communities who are receiving difficult news today of additional plant closings and job loss. “After many months of countering the arguments of the opponents of efforts to stabilize the domestic auto industry, the federal government’s commitment to and investment in the future of a domestic auto industry is clear. The government has also made clear, as re-iterated by GM CEO Fritz Henderson this morning, that business decisions have been -- and will continue to be made -- by GM’s management, not by the federal government. A successful restructuring is not only vital to America’s economic base but also to a return to the taxpayer of the investment of our taxpayer dollars. “Importantly, the common efforts of many led to changes to the GM restructuring plan that will increase the percentage of domestic production. It is vital that we finalize a voucher program to spur consumer demand and that we accelerate federal programs that leverage investments in the advanced technologies that will power the car of tomorrow as we re-build the domestic auto industry.” (####)
05.22.2009	This Memorial Day, as we remember the sacrifice and courage of the men and women who have fought for our country, I wanted to take a moment to share with you efforts taken this year to ensure that our veterans receive the benefits and compensation they deserve. The Obama Administration and Congress have made veterans care a priority and I look forward to implementing an aggressive new agenda. The Recovery Act (H.R. 1). The Recovery Act, or Stimulus, provides a $1.4 billion increase for the maintenance at VA medical facilities, construction of veterans’ extended care facilities, and veteran cemetery repairs. The bill also provides economic stimulus payments of $250 to disabled veterans receiving VA compensation or pension. 2010 Budget (S.Con.Res 13). 2008 and 2009 saw historic increases in veterans funding. The 2010 budget resolution adopted by Congress builds on this progress by providing $53.4 billion in funding for veterans’ programs, which is $5.6 billion (11.7 percent) more than the 2009 level. The budget resolution was supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, the American Legion, and others major veterans service organizations. Expanding Health Treatment. The budget resolution also calls for an end to the Bush Administration’s ban on enrolling modest-income veterans for VA health care. It also provides more funding for the VA to research and treat mental health, post-traumatic stress disorder, and traumatic brain injury. Veterans Emergency Care Reimbursement (H.R. 1377). This legislation requires the VA to reimburse veterans receiving emergency treatment in non-Department of Veterans Affairs facilities. The House approved H.R. 1377 on March 30th. Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program Reauthorization Act (H.R. 1171). The VA now estimates that 154,000 veterans are homeless. This legislation reauthorizes a program to provide services to homeless veterans with special problems such as legal issues, HIV, substance abuse, and post-traumatic stress disorder. The program has thus far been successfully in providing employment to 65 percent of the veterans’ participating. The House approved H.R. 1171 on March 30th. Veterans Employment Rights Realignment Act (H.R. 1089). This legislation gives the US Office of Special Counsel more authority to investigate and prosecute employment discrimination cases against veterans. This will decrease the time it takes for a veterans case to be resolved. The House approved H.R. 1089 on May 19th. Adapted Housing Assistive Technology Grant Program (H.R. 1170). This legislation creates a grant program to encourage the development of new assistive technologies or specially adapted housing for disabled veterans. Cost-effective solutions are critical and can prevent the need for around-the-clock nursing care or admission to a nursing home for seriously wounded veterans. The House approved H.R. 1170 on May 19th. New GI Bill. Finally, the new GI bill, which was passed last Congress, will come into effect this year. This legislation restores full, four-year college scholarships for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, on par with the educational benefits after World War II, providing up to the cost of the most expensive in-state public school and also provides transferability of unused education benefits to spouses and children. The VA is now taking applications for those who want to begin school in August. Looking ahead, the Veterans Affairs Committee intends to address new ways to handle the VA claims backlog this year and the Appropriations Committee is working hard to ensure that next year’s VA funding is delivered on time. These are both priorities for me as well. While we can never fully repay our nation's veterans for their service and sacrifice, we must do our very best to ensure that they have the support and tools they need to succeed when they return home. If you or anyone you know are ever experiencing trouble in securing your veterans benefits do not hesitate to contact my office at (586) 498-7122. (####)
05.19.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), who will be attending the President’s announcement regarding new mileage and emissions standards for automobiles at the White House, made the following statement in advance of the event: “There is broad agreement in the states, in Congress, and in industry that we need to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, curb greenhouse gas pollution and embrace the advanced technologies that will power the cars of the future. “Today’s announcement provides a framework for doing so which is fair and effective. These standards are tough, but they are predictable and they are consistent throughout the country. “We have been pressing for a single national policy because grafting a state-by-state patchwork of emission standards on top of the existing federal fuel rules would have created a confusing regulatory nightmare for auto companies and dealers. The Obama Administration has provided the leadership to achieve this national standard and they should be commended for their fast action to achieve consensus during this uncertain time. “It is vital that the federal government continue efforts to maintain a strong domestic auto industry and accelerate grants targeted at battery development and low-cost loans to help industry retool their factories to produce advanced, fuel-efficient vehicles.” (####)
05.07.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives today voted 300-114 in favor of H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, bipartisan legislation aimed at protecting homebuyers from predatory lending that has led to the recent mortgage crisis across the country. “We must finally act to address the irresponsible, and in some cases predatory, lending practices that significantly contributed to the wave of foreclosures devastating our neighborhoods,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Most basically, this bill says that you can’t write a mortgage that a consumer cannot reasonably afford to repay, and you can’t steer them from an affordable mortgage to an unaffordable one." The legislation is especially critical to Michigan, which according to RealtyTrac had the 6th highest foreclosure rate in nation during the first quarter of 2009. Over 33,000 Michigan families received a foreclosure filing over the three month period. “The subprime and exotic mortgages that became so prevalent in recent years have led to an unacceptable number of families losing their homes. This crisis threatens the ability of middle class families to afford the American Dream of homeownership,” said Rep. Levin. A summary of the bill is below. H.R. 1728, THE MORTGAGE REFORM AND ANTI PREDATORY LENDING ACT OF 2009 H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti Predatory Lending Act of 2009 is aimed at curbing abusive and predatory lending – a major factor in the nation’s highest home foreclosure rate in 25 years. The bill would outlaw many of the egregious industry practices that marked the subprime lending boom, and it would prevent borrowers from deliberately misstating their income to qualify for a loan. The bill would ensure that mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer and prohibit them from steering borrowers into higher cost loans. It would establish a simple standard for all home loans: institutions must ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. For mortgage refinancing, the bill requires that all loans provide a net tangible benefit to the consumer. Also, for the first time ever, it would make the secondary mortgage market responsible for complying with these standards when they buy loans and turn them into securities. Under the measure, lenders and the secondary mortgage market who don’t comply with these standards would be held accountable by consumers for rescission of the loan and the consumer’s costs for rescission, including attorney’s fees. They would also have the option to rework a loan to conform to the bill’s standards within 90 days of receiving notice from the consumer. In addition, the bill encourages the market to move back toward making fixed rate, fully documented loans. During the housing boom, mortgage lenders moved away from commonsense underwriting practices, giving rise to risky, exotic mortgages and practices such as “no doc” lending and allowing loans with “negative amortization” features. The legislation would also: Prevent Predatory and Abusive Lending Practices: Statistics show that many homeowners in the current mortgage crisis received more expensive loans than they qualified for. This is often the result of a predatory practice known as “steering,” in which a broker or bank loan officer is compensated for directing applicants toward more costly mortgages. H.R. 1728 would ban yield spread premiums and other abusive compensation structures that create conflicts of interest or reward originators that “steer” borrowers. The bill would also require originators to disclose to consumers the compensation they receive from the transaction. Hold Creditors Responsible for the Loans they Originate: The bill would require new federal rules to be written to require creditors to retain an economic interest in a material portion (at least 5 percent) of the credit risk of each loan that the creditor transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party. Federal banking agencies would have the authority to make exceptions to the bill’s risk retention provisions, including form and amount. Protect Tenants who Rent Homes that go into Foreclosure: Renters can also be affected if the homes that they rent go into foreclosure. This legislation will provide protections for renters so that they receive proper notification and are given time to relocate before the home they rent is foreclosed. (####)
05.07.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The $250 economic recovery payments for Social Security recipients, which were provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will begin to go out on today, May 7 – with the goal of all these payments being sent out by the end of May. “In our state of Michigan, 1,649,485 social security recipients will receive this boost, and $468 million will flow into our state economy,” stated Rep. Levin. “These are difficult and uncertain times and Michigan families need support and reassurance that action is being taken on their behalf.” In addition to the economic recovery payments being made to Social Security recipients, the Recovery Act also provides these payments to Supplemental Security Income (SSI) recipients, disabled veterans, and Railroad Retirement recipients. The payments to SSI recipients are scheduled to begin in mid-May, to Railroad Retirement recipients in late May and disabled veterans in June. Nationally, 50 million individuals will receive this one-time recovery payment. Background Social Security is the only source of income for nearly one-third of all nonmarried seniors receiving Social Security. The median annual income for nonmarried Social Security recipients over age 65 who are women is only $13,151. The median annual income of nonmarried Social Security recipients over age 65 who are men is only $17,611. Nearly 30 percent of nonmarried Social Security recipients who are women over age 65 are poor or near-poor – with 17.4 percent living below the federal poverty line and another 10.8 percent with incomes below 125 percent of the poverty line. If someone regularly receives benefits from two or more of these programs – such as Social Security and Railroad Retirement, or a disabled veterans’ benefit and SSI – he or she will receive just one $250 payment. The President approved the Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act as part of a vital effort to jumpstart the economy, create jobs, help workers hurt by the economy, and make key investments to transform the economy. Michigan is estimated to receive $18 billion through Recovery package programs. Rep. Sander Levin’s office has prepared a Community Resource Guide to assist local communities and community organizations evaluate their participation in Recovery programs. The Guide also contains Fact Sheets to assist individuals with the programs that might assist them directly. The 12th District Economic Recovery Guide can be found at www.house.gov\levin (####)
05.06.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement after release of the Michigan Delegation’s letter to Ed Montgomery, the Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers, appointed by President Obama. Dr. Montgomery will be holding a Community Forum in Warren on Friday. “The President indicated that Michigan has an advocate in Ed Montgomery, and we are going to make sure that we leverage his work to the fullest on behalf of Michigan families, communities and businesses,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “As we fight for the effective restructuring and viability plans of Chrysler-Fiat and GM, we must support our communities and invest in transforming our future.” The letter from the entire Michigan delegation describes specific actions that Ed Montgomery can take to assist Michigan fully benefit from the Economic Recovery Act programs. The letter also asks him to play a leadership role as part of the President’s Auto Task Force in looking after the concerns of auto suppliers, auto dealers and consumers as GM and Chrysler continue their restructuring efforts. The Delegation Press Release and Letter are below: Michigan Congressional Delegation Calls on Obama Administration to Provide Assistance & Investment During Period of Transition Washington, DC – All 17 Members of the Michigan Congressional Delegation – 15 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and 2 United States Senators - sent the following letter to Dr. Ed Montgomery, Director of Recovery for Auto Workers and Communities, discussing opportunities for federal investment in the State of Michigan. Dr. Montgomery will be in Michigan on Thursday and Friday of this week to listen and learn about the problems facing Michigan and to discuss his role in the Obama Administration’s plan to support and revitalize auto industry workers and communities. Click here to view the letter from the Members to Dr. Montgomery. (####)
05.05.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin has introduced legislation to increase the amount of loans available to help automakers and suppliers retool to manufacture advanced technology vehicles and components. The bill, H.R 2150, would amend Section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act to increase the amount of retooling loans available under the Advanced Technology Vehicle Incentive Program (ATVMIP) from $25 billion to $50 billion. Levin was joined in introducing H.R. 2150 by a bi-partisan group of 29 other House Members. Michigan Members included: Reps. Dingell, Kildee, Upton, Ehlers, Conyers, Rogers, Stupak, McCotter, Schauer, Peters, Miller, Camp, and Hoekstra. “It is vital that the federal government be a full partner to the domestic auto industry’s efforts to build the cars of the future,” said Levin. “The program has already received applications for loans well in excess of the resources available, and we need to move quickly to ensure that all eligible investments are able to participate.” The Section 136 loan program makes it more economically feasible for U.S. auto manufacturers and part suppliers to retool by providing low-interest loans for the cost of retooling a manufacturing facility in the U.S. to produce advanced technology vehicles. Congress provided funding last year to support $25 billion in loans under the program as part of the FY09 Continuing Resolution. The legislation builds upon a letter sent by Rep. Levin and other Members to the Appropriations Committee earlier this month that requested additional funding for the program. (####)
05.04.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement today regarding President Obama’s proposals to reform tax incentives for multinational corporations and to limit the abuse of offshore tax havens. “The President has issued a clear call to action that the tax code tilt that encourages U.S. businesses to shift production overseas must end. The President has proposed sensible reforms that will replace loopholes and other features of our tax code that encourage the shifting of business operations overseas with strong incentives like the R&D Credit to create the jobs of the future right here at home. “The President has also outlined important steps forward in ending the ability of some of the very wealthiest to shelter income offshore in so-called “tax havens.” Tax avoidance rightly offends the overwhelming majority of Americans who are paying their fair share; curtailing this abuse is vital to ensuring that all taxpayers can have confidence that our system is fair.” (####)
04.30.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement today. “After what this country has been through with the financial meltdown, it is outrageous that a handful of hedge funds and other creditors have refused to join all the other stakeholders in participating in the restructuring necessary to pave the way for a Chrysler-Fiat Alliance. “The workers stepped up to the plate and we have received assurances from the President that their agreement will be honored in any court proceeding. “The Chrysler-Fiat Alliance holds much promise for the United States as it preserves jobs and brings more fuel efficient cars to the market quicker and it must not be jeopardized by any uncertainties in the bankruptcy proceeding. “The domestic automotive sector industry is essential to the industrial base of our country and its survival and rebound will be vital to our economic recovery. “We have discussed with the Obama Administration the vital necessity of the auto supply chain and the need to ensure they can weather the uncertainties of the next period. “It is also critical that consumers have been assured by the President that their Chrysler warranties are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government, and they can buy Chrysler vehicles with confidence.” Click here to view President Obama's statement. (####)
04.28.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The following Members of the Michigan Congressional Delegation (Senators Levin, Stabenow, Reps. Dingell, Levin, Upton, Stupak, Peters, Kildee, Schauer, Conyers, and Candice Miller) joined together in making the following statement. “We are encouraged by reports that Chrysler’s major secured creditors have reached an agreement to settle their debt with Chrysler through an agreement with the U.S. Treasury. On the heels of the announcement by the UAW that they had reached an agreement with Chrysler and Fiat, this is another important step and a sign of how with the full participation of all stakeholders an out of court settlement can be reached. “It is now essential that the remaining holdouts among secured creditors demonstrate a commitment to Main Street and the U.S. industrial base. If they fail to do so, bankruptcy would be worse for them economically, and a risk to this vital new alliance of car companies.” (####)
04.27.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The entire Michigan Congressional Delegation (Senators Levin and Stabenow, Reps. Dingell, Levin, Upton, Miller, Kildee, Peters, McCotter, Rogers, Stupak, Schauer, Kilpatrick, Camp, Ehlers, Hoekstra and Conyers) joined together in making the following statement today. “The announcement by the United Auto Workers (UAW) that they have reached a tentative agreement with Chrysler and Fiat to bring about a new auto alliance illustrates the commitment of the workers to be full participants in the restructuring of the domestic auto industry. Their willingness to conclude these difficult negotiations with Chrysler/Fiat and their patience with this ongoing process is to be commended. “The Chrysler and Fiat Alliance holds much promise for the U.S. market. It preserves jobs, brings additional fuel efficient vehicles to the U.S. market quicker and assists Chrysler in its pursuit of advanced technologies like the electric car. “The secured lenders now have an opportunity to demonstrate their commitment to Main Street America. These last months of financial meltdown, tax-payer bailout, the lack of renewed lending, and executive bonuses have angered and turned off the American people. The Chrysler banks – many whom are major recipients of bailout funds – should exercise leadership to bring about the necessary and appropriate participation of the secured lenders in the restructuring process. They can step up to the plate and tell the American people that they are committed to a deal that is not only in their own economic interest but supports the heartland and the core of our nation’s industrial base.” (####)
04.09.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Levin issued the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s announcement regarding federal fleet purchases. “This is a welcome and important step that reflects the President’s commitment to the survival and revitalization of the domestic auto industry,” said Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “The federal government’s purchase of thousands of hybrids and other fuel efficient vehicles from the Big Three shows that our domestic auto industry will weather this current crisis and build the cars of the future.” The White House announced today that the government through the General Service Administration is accelerating the purchase of fuel efficient vehicles for the federal fleet using $285 million provided in the Recovery Act. They will place orders for about 17,600 vehicles by June 1, and are placing orders for 2,500 hybrids by April 15th. All of the vehicles will be purchased from the Big Three because GSA has contracts with the Big Three and working through existing contracts is the fastest way aid the economic recovery. (####)
04.09.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin released an online Community Resource Guidebook for the federal American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that became law in February. Please view the Online Community Resource Guidebook. “The Recovery package was a vital part of the federal effort to jumpstart the economy, create jobs, help workers hurt by the economy, and make key investments to transform the economy,” said Rep. Levin. “We must now implement it effectively and ensure that our communities and Michigan residents are aware of the new resources and can track its implementation locally.” The Community Resource Guide is prepared to assist local communities and community organizations evaluate their participation in Recovery programs. The document we will also track the impact of Recovery funds in Michigan, Oakland and Macomb County and the 12th District. “It is important that there be strict oversight, accountability and transparency as the Recovery package is implemented,” said Rep. Levin. The online Community Resource Guide also contains Constituent Service Fact Sheets to assist individuals with the programs that might assist them directly. For example, there is a new program to provide a COBRA Health care subsidy to unemployed workers. This online resource will be updated regularly. In addition to Rep. Levin’s full staff of constituent service and community liaison specialists, a new staff member, James Jackson, has been appointed as Levin’s Economic Recovery Coordinator. (####)
04.03.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin today reintroduced legislation to tax carried interest compensation at the same ordinary income tax rates paid by other Americans. Currently, the managers of private investment partnerships are able to receive compensation for these services at the much lower capital gains tax rate rather that the ordinary income tax rate by virtue of their fund’s partnership structure. “This is a basic issue of fairness,” said Rep. Levin. “Fund managers are receiving compensation for managing their investors’ money. They should not pay the 15% capital gains rate on their compensation when millions of other hard-working Americans, many of whose income is performance-based, pay ordinary rates of up to 35%. The President’s budget recognizes that this is unfair. The House of Representatives has recognized that it is unfair, and this year I hope we can act to change the law.” The legislation clarifies that any income received from a partnership, capital or otherwise, in compensation for services provided by the employee is subject to ordinary tax rates. As a result, the managers of investment partnerships who receive a carried interest as compensation will pay regular income tax rates rather than capital gains rates on that compensation. The capital gains rate will continue to apply to the extent that the managers’ income represents a reasonable return on capital they have actually invested themselves in the partnership. “This proposal is not about taxing investment, it’s about ensuring that all compensation is treated equally for tax purposes. Anyone who actually invests money in these funds will continue to receive capital gains treatment, including the managers. So there is no reason to expect that the amount of capital available for these kinds of investments will be reduced,” concluded Levin. Levin introduced similar legislation in the 110th Congress, which was subsequently included in several tax packages approved by the Ways & Means Committee and the House of Representatives. A similar proposal is also included in President Obama’s FY 2010 budget request. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Levin Carried Interest Legislation – H.R. 1935 H.R. 1935 would treat the “carried interest” compensation received by investment fund managers as ordinary income rather than capital gains. In exchange for providing the service of managing their investors’ assets, fund managers often they receive a portion of the fund’s profits, or carried interest, usually 20 percent. H.R. 1935 clarifies that this income is subject to ordinary income tax rates rather than the much lower capital gains rate. Carried Interest: The Basics Why is Congress concerned about this issue?Many investment funds are structured as partnerships in which investors become limited partners and the funds’ managers are the general partner. The managers often take a considerable portion of their compensation for managing the funds’ investments as a share of the funds’ profits using a mechanism called “carried interest.” Partnership profits are taxed not to the partnership; instead partners are taxed on allocations of partnership income, and the nature of that income (capital or ordinary) “flows-through” to the partners. As a result, the investment managers are able to have income for performance of services taxed at the 15% capital gains rate. Essentially they are able to pay a lower tax rate on income from their work than other Americans simply because of the structure of their firm. What does the legislation do?It clarifies that any income received from a partnership, capital or otherwise, in compensation for services is ordinary income for tax purposes. As a result, the managers of investment partnerships who receive a carried interest as compensation will pay regular income tax rates rather than capital gains rates on that compensation. The capital gains rate will continue to apply to the extent that the managers’ income represents a reasonable return on capital they have actually invested in the partnership. What kinds of investment firms will be affected?This is part of a broad consideration of tax fairness. The principle at work is that compensation for services should be treated as ordinary income and taxed accordingly, regardless of its source. Any investment management firm that takes a share of an investment fund’s profits as its compensation (i.e. in the form of carried interest), will be affected. This will apply to any investment management firm without regard to the type of assets, whether they are financial assets or real estate. The test is the form of compensation, not the type of assets the firm is managing, its investment strategy, or the amount of compensation involved. What is the effective date of the legislation?This legislation is designed to create a structure under which this income should be taxed. Decisions on the effective date will be made as part of the legislative process. Carried Interest: Myths vs. Facts Myth: This is a tax increase on investment that will hurt economic growth. Fact: Investors are not affected by this legislation at all. Any person or institution who invests money in a fund whose managers receive a carried interest will continue to pay the capital gains rate on their profits. In fact, the bill explicitly protects the investments that fund managers make themselves. To the extent they have put their own money in the fund, managers still get capital gains treatment, but to the extent they are being compensated for managing the fund, they will have to pay ordinary income tax rates like other service providers. Since investors are not affected, there is no reason to believe that the amount of capital available for these kinds of investments will be reduced at all. Myth: Taxing carried interest is just about raising revenue. Fact: Fairness requires treating all taxpayers who provide services the same.This proposal would raise revenue, but it is not just an offset. Congress has a responsibility ensure that our tax code is fair, that it makes sense. A broad spectrum of experts, including the Chairman of the Cato Institute and senior economic advisors to the last three Republican Presidents, agree that carried interest really represents a performance based fee that investors are paying to fund managers and that it should be taxed accordingly. Allowing some service providers to pay the 15 percent capital gains rate on their income when everyone else has to pay up to 35 percent risks undermining people’s confidence in our voluntary tax system. Myth: Fund Managers are just like entrepreneurs who get founder’s stock in their company, so they too should be taxed at the capital gains rate. Fact: Fund Managers are fundamentally different than the founder of a company. When someone starts an enterprise, he or she actually owns that business. Sometimes that business becomes enormously valuable, but quite often it fails altogether and the entrepreneur loses her business. When an investment partnership purchases an asset, be it a stake in a small start-up company, a large corporation that wants to go private, a portfolio of securities, or a piece of real estate, the partnership does truly own those assets. The general partner or fund manager though is really only an “owner” to the extent he or she has contributed capital to the partnership. The carried interest the general partner receives for managing the fund’s assets is a right to a portion of the fund’s profit, not to the fund’s actual assets: the manager has no downside risk. If the fund fails completely and all of the partnership’s assets are lost, the limited partners have lost their money. The manager has lost the time and energy he has put into the running the fund, and the potential to share in the profits, but he is not actually out of pocket. Myth: Fund managers deserve capital gains treatment because a carried interest is risky. Fact: Many other forms of compensation are risky, and they are all ordinary income.When a company gives its CEO stock options, it is trying to give her an incentive to increase the company’s share price, to growth the value of shareholders’ investment. If the CEO does a good job and the share price goes up, she pays ordinary income tax rates when she exercises those options. Real estate agents only make money if they actually sell a house, no matter how hard they work. Authors receive a portion of their book’s profits. Waiters get tips based on the quality of the service they provide. All of these people pay ordinary income tax rates on their compensation. Only private equity and other fund managers get to pay capital gains rates on their compensation. Myth: Taxing carried interest will hurt the pension funds that invest in these funds. Fact: This has nothing to do with pension funds and their returns will not be affected.One pension trustee, who also happens to be a hedge fund manager, called the idea that this debate is about workers’ pensions “ludicrous.” As tax-exempt investors, pension fund certainly will not be affected directly, and the assumption that fund managers can charge higher fees than they do today as a result of their having to pay ordinary income rates is extremely questionable. In fact, an attorney representing the hedge fund industry testified before the Ways & Means Committee that investors would be unlikely to accept increased fees. The National Conference on Public Employee Retirement Systems has said that its members do not believe this legislation will affect them. Myth: This change to the taxation of carried interest will harm every “mom and pop” partnership in America. Fact: The change would only affect those partnerships where service income is being improperly converted to capital gains.This legislation would have no effect whatsoever on the vast majority of partnerships that are engaged in ongoing businesses and whose profits are already being properly taxed an ordinary income tax rates. It does apply to investment fund partnerships where the investors in the fund choose to compensate the people managing their assets through a carried interest. In practice, this means hedge funds, private equity funds, venture capital funds and real estate partnerships. The reality is that the fund managers and general partners who would be asked to pay ordinary income tax rates on their compensation are a very small, very well-paid group of professionals. It is also important to note that the bill does not discriminate among partnerships based on the kind of assets they purchase. (####)
04.01.2009	Our State and Nation is facing the most severe economic and financial crisis in generations. To help middle-class families get back on their feet and restore some fairness to the tax code, the Economic Recovery package that became law in February included the Making Work Pay Tax Credit. As a result, families across the country will see more money in their paychecks. This is one of the fastest and broadest tax cuts in American history. In Michigan, 3.7 million working families will collectively get $1.9 billion to improve their take home pay and help them weather the current economic storm. Nationally, the credit provides over 110 million working families—about 95%—the tax relief they need right now and will give nearly 60 billion dollars to America’s working families. IRS guidance asks that, by April 1, employers must have instituted the lower withholdings for their employees. Restoring Fairness to the Tax Code and Providing Tax Relief to Working Americans. The Making Work Pay Tax Credit aims to help middle class families who are being squeezed by rising costs and stagnating wages. For 2009 and 2010, the “Making Work Pay” tax credit provides a refundable tax credit of 6.2 percent of earned income up to $400 for working individuals and $800 for married taxpayers. Families should see at least a $65 dollar per month increase in their take home pay. The credit will phase out for taxpayers with adjusted gross income in excess of $150,000 for married couples filing jointly and $75,000 for other workers, and thus is fully phased out for taxpayers with modified adjusted gross income in excess of $190,000 for married workers and $95,000 for other workers. Getting Needed Cash to Working Families. In an effort to get much needed cash to hard working Americans as quickly as possible, in late February the President announced the IRS would issue a new set of withholding tables (https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/n1036.pdf) structured to get the tax credit to Americas’ workers in cash over the course of the year. By reducing required withholding amounts, workers’ take home pay is increased immediately. The typical American family will have about $800 extra cash over the next year delivered to them in their paychecks to spend and to help the economy get back on track. (####)
03.30.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement after President Obama’s address on the “New Path to Viability for GM & Chrysler.” “The President expressed his commitment to the future of the domestic auto industry. He stated that he is ‘absolutely committed to working with Congress and the auto companies to meet one goal: the United States of America will lead the world in building the next generation of clean cars.’ “It is now up to all of the involved parties to take the necessary and effective steps on a path that allows us to weather the global financial crisis and economic recession and reaffirms a strong domestic auto industry. “These steps must include: “Action by the federal government to make credit available, other steps to increase consumer demand, and accelerated federal assistance for battery and other technological advancements as we develop the cars of the future. “It also means that creditors must get to table and take their losses in a new framework for a viable auto industry; if not this result will occur through a bankruptcy proceeding that could also have unforeseen consequences for all involved. “The next days are going to be difficult, but I am confident that the companies and the workers can meet the challenges described by President Obama. We can do no less because the domestic automotive sector is the heart of the U.S. industrial base, and as the President said, “it is a pillar of our economy.”
03.29.2009	For many years, the process of Congressional funding requests - sometimes known as "earmarks" - lacked transparency and accountability. Since assuming the majority in 2007, Congressional Democrats have overhauled the process for requesting project-specific funding requests. For the last two years, every earmark approved by Congress included public disclosure of which Member(s) requested the money, which entity received the funds, what the funds were for, and how much money Congress approved. Members requesting earmarks must also certify that they have no financial interest in the project. My office works with local communities and non-profit organizations to determine where there are local projects that may be assisted with targeted federal spending. Below are all of the project-specific requests my office has submitted to the Appropriations Committee this year. Commerce, Justice, Science Macomb County Centralized Dispatch, Macomb County Emergency Management & Communications, 10 N. Main, Mount Clemens, MI, 48043 Amount Requested: $3,000,000Funding would provide communications equipment and technology to help consolidate duplicate dispatch services for 3 EMS agencies, 24 fire agencies, and 18 police departments throughout Macomb County. Biometric Identification Enhancement Project, Oakland County Sheriff’s Department, 1201 N. Telegraph, Pontiac, MI, 48341 Amount Requested: $625,000Funding will be used to upgrade Oakland County’s CLEMIS CAPFIS palm print system, streamline the LiveID application to over 3,500 patrol vehicles in the field, and to purchase 62 portable biometric identification devices. The Justice Department reports 40% of crime scenes contain palm print evidence and the use of identifying technology will allow law enforcement to solve more crimes. Additionally, the ‘on the street’ technology will help officers be more efficient and rely less on suspect demographic information for identification purposes. Juvenile Crime and Delinquency Prevention Program, United Way for Southeastern Michigan, 1212 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226 Amount Requested: $500,000Funding will support the United Way’s program to prevent juvenile crime and delinquency and to reduce high school drop-out rates. The program targets students at risk of dropping out of high school by partnering students with adult mentors, providing safe places for extracurricular activities, building marketable employment skills, and providing opportunities for community service. The United Way currently works with high schools throughout Southeast Michigan, including the East Detroit, Hazel Park, and Van Dyke school districts. Edward J. Overstreet Center for Excellence in Children’s Services, Holy Cross Children’s Services, 8759 Clinton Macon Road, Clinton, Michigan, 49236 Amount Requested: $250,000Funding will be used to support the Center’s activities, primarily the collection, analysis, and dissemination of data related to policies and services for youth in the Juvenile Justice system.Defense Automatic Data Organization for Vehicle and Diagnostic Systems, BOSSdev, Inc., 300 Maple Park Blvd., St. Clair Shores, MI, 48081. Amount requested: $1.5 millionThis funding will support a cooperative research and development project between BOSSdev, Inc., and the Computer Science Program at Lawrence Technological University to develop a web-based, collaborative software platform that will significantly improve the way in which the Army manages vehicle parts and maintenance. The Army currently does not have a central software tool that can effectively link the dozens of databases that track everything from parts requisitions to diagnostic failures. These databases often use different database technologies and each database is typically maintained and fed data from different organizations. This results in separate "stove pipes" of information. This project will create new software that will utilize a clustering engine to look at all available data and recommend groupings much like an internet search engine recommends web pages based on a search. This clustering of data will help experts make sense of disparate sets of data that currently exist in a linear, unlinked format. Cancer Vaccine Development Center (CVDC), Karmanos Cancer Institute, 4100 John R., Detroit, MI 48201. Amount requested: $3.085 millionThe funding will be used by the Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute or its Cancer Vaccine Development Center (CVDC) to develop technology and therapeutic products that will allow for the vaccinations of humans, including military service members, to prevent and treat cancer. In the Department of Defense beneficiary population, more than 355,000 patients undergo treatment or follow-up for cancer each year. The cost of treating cancer represents a major expense for the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs and Medicare, our nation's servicemen and women, and millions of Americans who are diagnosed with cancer. As is the case with DoD's other cancer research efforts, the benefits of a successful cancer vaccine would help prevent and treat cancer both in the military and throughout the U.S. population. Dynamometer Facility Upgrade Program TARDEC - Phase II, AVL Instrumentation and Test Systems, Inc., 47519 Halyard Drive, Plymouth, MI 48170. Amount requested: $4.5 millionThe funding will be used to continue to upgrade the dynamometer equipment at TARDEC in Warren, Michigan. The TARDEC test facility dynamometers are not modern and have experienced numerous ad-hoc improvements over the years. Furthermore, success of the U.S. Army's ability to meet mission requirements is greatly dependent upon the ability to evaluate designs of current and future powertrains, components, and the effects that added armor and equipment have on current and future fleets. NAVAIR Project for Land/Sea-Based Air Systems Maintenance and Air Worthiness (PLASMA), Focus: HOPE, 1355 Oakman Boulevard, Detroit, MI 48238. Amount requested: $3 millionThe funding will be used by Focus: HOPE to develop thermal barrier coating systems for the Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR). Focus: HOPE's investigations of NAVAIR's needs indicate that additional technologies such as thermal/plasma spraying and physical/chemical vapor deposition would also be highly suitable for NAVAIR components, thereby removing several limitations of current processes in use by NAVAIR. For example, these spray and vapor deposition technologies could produce thermal barrier coatings to enhance the durability and performance of many high temperature aerospace and air warfare components. In order to carry out these activities, Focus: HOPE plans to assemble a team of its employees/students and experts from NAVAIR, industry and academia to take the lead in executing the tasks. On-Demand Custom Body Implants/Prosthesis for Injured Personnel, University of Michigan-Dearborn, 4901 Evergreen Road, Dearborn, MI 48128. Amount requested: $3 millionThe funding will be used by the University of Michigan-Dearborn to continue to develop a state of the art planning, designing and on-demand manufacturing system for custom implants/prosthesis, based on medical images and CAD data using Solid Free-form Fabrication technique (SFF). Individualized implants/prostheses provide better durability and functionality compared to off-the-shelf implants. This ongoing medical research effort is especially important to respond to the elevated cases of limb amputations affecting military personnel serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The demonstration of a rapid manufacturing platform will reduce the long lead times and costs currently involved with fabrication of prostheses. Protective 3-D Armor Structure to Safeguard Military Vehicles and Troops, Lawrence Technological University, 21000 West Ten Mile Road, Southfield, MI 48075. Amount requested: $2 millionThe funding will be used by Lawrence Technological University to develop Protective 3-D Armor Structures to Safeguard Military Vehicles and Troops, especially as it pertains to the Future Combat Systems (FCS). Working with the U.S. Army Tank Automotive Research Development and Engineering Center (TARDEC), and the U.S. Army Research Laboratory (ARL) a unique and innovative 3-D Armor Structure will be researched, designed, developed, fabricated, tested and readied for deployment. This 3-D Armor Structure is targeted to be superior in design, weight, and durability than current armor designs and technology. Deployment of this high-strength lower-weight 3-D Armor Structure is designed to provide the badly needed protection for U.S. military vehicles against serious threats, especially those being developed for the Future Combat Systems (FCS). Energy and Water Clinton River Environmental Restoration, Macomb County Public Works Commissioner, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Detroit District, 477 Michigan Avenue, Detroit, MI 48226. Amount requested: $285,000The funding will be used to study the operation of the inflatable weir for the purpose of reducing sedimentation in the Clinton River. Greening of Warren Police Department Headquarters, City of Warren, One City Square, Suite 215, Warren, MI 48093 Amount requested: $1 millionThe funding will be used by the City of Warren to implement green technologies and energy efficiency upgrades at the Warren Police Department, including the installation of a green roof, installation of interior and exterior lighting, and upgrades to the heating and cooling system. The project will significantly reduce operational costs for this public facility. Implementing the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair Comprehensive Management Plan, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Detroit District, 477 Michigan Avenue, Detroit, MI 48226. Amount requested: $3 millionThe funding will be used to implement priority restoration projects that are consistent with the St. Clair River/Lake St. Clair Management Plan, which the Corps of Engineers completed in 2005. There projects will be developed through a partnership between the Corps of Engineers, state agencies, local officials and other stakeholders. United Way Energy Efficient Building Project, United Way for Southeastern Michigan, 1212 Griswold Street, Detroit, Michigan 48226. Amount requested: $260,000The funding will be used by United Way of Southeastern Michigan to assist two other community non-profits to make energy efficiency and insulation upgrades at their facilities. The two organizations are Turning Point of Mount Clemens, MI, a domestic violence shelter, as well as the Macomb County Rotating Shelter Team (MCREST), a coalition of churches that provide overnight shelter to homeless persons and families. Financial Services Macomb County Business Accelerator, Macomb County Department of Planning and Economic Development, 1 South Main, 7th Floor, Mt. Clemens, MI 48043. Amount Requested: $843,000The request would be used to support the operations of the newly created Macomb County Business Accelerator during an initial start up period. Macomb County, MI is experiencing severe economic distress due to the downturn in the domestic automotive industry. The county has recognized for some time the need to provide leadership during this ongoing economic transformation, and to support manufacturing businesses and their need to diversify into fields beyond the automotive sector. In response to this urgent need, the county has created the Macomb County Business Accelerator to assist entrepreneurs and existing companies to allow them to either start and grow high demand business in new industries or to reposition and expand their current business to serve other industries, particularly defense and homeland security, which have been identified by Macomb County and the State of Michigan as viable and emerging growth sectors. WSU Macomb Entrepreneurship Center, Wayne State University, 5057 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, MI 48202. Amount Requested: $600,000The WSU School of Business Administration is committed to supporting the economic transformation of Macomb County, which is experiencing severe economic distress due to the downturn in the automotive industry. Entrepreneurship is a critical component of ongoing efforts to diversify the local economy beyond the automotive sector. The Center for Entrepreneurship will help the Macomb County campus to recruit more students interested in starting their own businesses, to educate them in entrepreneurship and to support them in becoming successful entrepreneurs who will contribute to the revitalization of the region's economy. To this end, funding will be used to establish an Entrepreneurship Center in connection with Macomb Community College, including: Program Development and Implementation, an Internship Program, and Business Consulting Services. Interior/EPA Oakland/Macomb Interceptor, Oakland County Water Resources Commissioner, One Public Works Drive, Building 95, Waterford, MI 48328. Amount requested: $5 millionThe funding will be used to assist Oakland and Macomb Counties to repair and rehabilitate the Oakland/Macomb Interceptor. The Interceptor is a large, 21.4 mile sewer that is the sole conduit that transports sanitary sewage from over 300,000 residents of Oakland and Macomb Counties to the City of Detroit for treatment. Chapaton Retention Basin Improvements, 8 1/2 Mile Relief Drain Drainage District, 23001 East Nine Mile Road, St. Clair Shores, MI 48080. Amount requested: $1.65 millionThe funding will be used to upgrade the Chapaton Retention Treatment Basin in St. Clair Shores and improve water quality in the Lake St. Clair watershed. The Chapaton facilities constitute the largest CSO control structure discharging into Lake St. Clair. The facility is over 40 years old and the proposed improvements will modernize the design and treatment capabilities to meet higher water quality standards and reduce overflows as well as the need for chlorination. Illicit Discharge Elimination Program, Macomb County Health Department, 43525 Elizabeth Road, Mt. Clemens, MI 48043. Amount requested: $330,000The funding will be used by the Macomb County Health Department to conduct Illicit Discharge Elimination Programs in order to identify and eliminate sources of wastewater discharges to the rivers and tributaries impacting the Clinton River and Lake St. Clair. Similar programs in other parts of the County prevented approximately 70 million gallons per year of wastewater from discharging into Macomb County surface water and Lake St. Clair. Lake Huron to Lake Erie Water Monitoring and Protection Network, Macomb County Health Department, Macomb County Health Department, 43525 Elizabeth Road, Mt. Clemens, MI 48043. Amount requested: $635,250The funding will be used to continue and enhance the system of drinking water monitoring at water intakes from Port Huron to Lake Erie. This monitoring system helps protect the drinking water quality of nearly four million people living in Southeastern Michigan. Older Urban Areas - Lathrup Village, Oakland County Water Resources Commissioner, One Public Works Drive, Building 95, Waterford, MI 48328. Amount requested: $1 millionThe funding will be used to identify and eliminate sources of sewage in that is currently escaping from the old sewer infrastructure into storm drains and creeks in Lathrup Village, Michigan. The age of the water infrastructure often results in storm water drainage being routed into sanitary sewers. The funding will be used to eliminate excess storm water infiltration sources, correct illicit connections, and prioritize long-term infrastructure repair. Labor/HHS/Education Center of Excellence in Aerospace Defense, Macomb Community College, 7900 Tank Ave., Warren, MI, 48092 Amount Requested: $2,000,000Funding will help Macomb Community College train displaced workers in the aerospace and defense industries, one of the fastest growing fields in Macomb County. The Center aims to create a pipeline of workers in this field and is partnering extensively with neighbouring universities, military facilities, businesses and suppliers, and worker training organizations to develop training programs to meet the industries’ workforce needs. Chessed Health Care Coordination Project, Jewish Family Services, 6555 West Maple Road, Bloomfield, MI 48322 Amount Requested: $750,000Funding will be used to expand a referral program that connects uninsured individuals with health care providers and institutions that will provide them with donated care. The program seeks to provide needed health care to individuals while decreasing inappropriate and Emergency Room use for non-emergent care. The project will coordinate care for participating patients to facilitate access to over 600 individual volunteer providers and partner institutions. Diabetes Care and Support Program, Henry Ford Health System, 1 Ford Place, Detroit, Michigan, 48202 Amount Requested: $200,000 Funding will be used to provide coordinated diabetes care management services, with a focus on assisting high-risk, uninsured patients. Patients will be offered a diabetes care management plan with case management services, to include telephone and email contact. The goal of the project is to support the patients and encourage self-care and nutrition that will stabilize glucose levels and bring them within normal ranges. The project will leverage the Henry Ford Health System’s electronic medical record and patient website capabilities to identify patients with diabetes who are most appropriate for the planned interventions. Emerging Sectors Initiative, Oakland County Department of Development and Community Affairs, 2100 N. Pontiac Lake Road, Waterford, MI, 48328 Amount Requested: $1,000,000Funding would support workforce training activities in emerging employment sectors designed by a multi-sector partnership between educational institutions, local government, worker training programs, and businesses throughout Oakland County. This project targets workforce development in newly commercialized technologies identified as high-demand and high-growth employment fields. Expansion of Communities of Early Learning, United Way for Southeastern Michigan, 1212 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226 Amount Requested: $500,000 Funding would train informal caregivers in early childhood development. United Way is planning to develop Communities of Early Learning sites in at-risk neighbourhoods in Hazel Park, Roseville, and Warren and estimates, when fully operational, these sites will be able to provide services to 400 to 600 early childhood education and care providers. FernCare Free Clinic, Citizens for a Fair Ferndale, 445 West Woodruff, Hazel Park, MI 48030 Amount Requested: $150,000Funding will be used to establish a free health clinic in Ferndale, Michigan. The health center, to be called FernCare Free Clinic, will provide non-emergency medical and mental health care, generic medication distribution, community resources referral, and dental health services. The clinic will focus on providing care to those who are uninsured and not served by other facilities or programs. Model International Education Program for Community Colleges, Oakland Community College, 2480 Opdyke Road, Bloomfield Hills, MI, 48304 Amount Requested: $500,000 Funding would assist Oakland Community College’s development of a model international education program to serve as a pilot for other community colleges. This model program aims to meet the unique needs of community college students by expanding international curriculum, providing international experiences for students and faculty who are normally constrained from participating in traditional study abroad programs, identifying opportunities for faculty involvement, and hosting seminars on international topics. Providence Hospital and Medical Center Computerized Provider Order Entry System, St. John Health, 28000 Dequindre, Warren, MI 48092 Amount Requested: $3 millionFunding will be used to upgrade the existing electronic medical record system at Providence Hospital and Medical Center by adding Computerized Provider Order Entry (CPOE). The CPOE system will enable physicians to electronically enter instructions for the treatment of patients that will communicated over a computer network to the medical staff (nurses, therapists, pharmacists, or other physicians) or to the departments (pharmacy, laboratory or radiology) responsible for fulfilling the order. CPOE is an important component to a high-performing electronic medical record system. Military Construction ADAL A-10 SQUAD OPS FACILITY - B/34, Selfridge Air National Guard Base, Macomb County, Michigan Amount requested: $6.2 millionThe funding will be used to renovate and repair Building 34 at Selfridge Air National Guard Base in Michigan. Building 34 was originally constructed in 1988, and currently houses the 127th Wing's A-10 Squadron Operations and a portion of the Survival Equipment function. Existing interior areas are not properly configured. Existing electrical, mechanical, roofing, and support systems are quickly approaching their useful life expectancy and are insufficient to accommodate the needed facility expansion. Current facility accommodations, and the significant resulting space deficiencies and geographic sprawl, negatively impact the daily mission accomplishment of these critical A-10 Operations and Maintenance functions. Transportation/HUD Hazel Park Business & Community Center, City of Hazel Park, 111 E. Nine Mile, Hazel Park, MI, 48030 Amount Requested: $89,000Funding would renovate an unused school building for use as a municipal center for community and cultural activities and to house a business incubator to develop local entrepreneurship. Wayne State-Macomb County Education Center, Wayne State University, 5057 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, MI, 48202 Amount Requested: $500,000 Funding would renovate the former Macomb County Library into an educational facility and research center with classrooms for undergraduate and graduate programs, student services including on-site admissions and advising, a library for the blind and physically handicapped, and a public reference and research center. This will expand access to higher education in Macomb County as well as preserve public access to the library. Mount Clemens non-motorized trail along North-bound Gratiot, Macomb County, 1 South Main Street, Mount Clemens, MI, 48043 Amount Requested: $575,000 Funding would replace a deteriorated sidewalk that accesses downtown Mount Clemens and Shady Side Park, as well as connect to the regional Metropolitan Trail. Pedestrian Improvements to Van Dyke Avenue, City of Warren, One City Square, Suite 215, Warren, MI, 48093 Amount Requested: $1,000,000Funding would create pedestrian improvements to Van Dyke Avenue between 8 Mile and Stephens and between I-696 and 14 Mile. Such improvements include the addition of bike lanes and pedestrian trails, signage, lighting, bus shelters, and a pedestrian overpass to provide safe, convenient access to major facilities in this area, particularly the Warren Community Center, the Civic Center, and the General Motors Technological Center. Livernois Street Improvements and Pedestrian Enhancements, City of Ferndale, 300 E. Nine Mile, Ferndale, MI, 48220 Amount Requested: $1,477,000Funding would convert a half-mile stretch of Livernois Street between Eight Mile and Marshall to a four-lane pedestrian- and bicycle-friendly boulevard. A bike lane would be added to each side of Livernois to connect to existing lanes north of Marshall, creating bicycle access to Woodward Avenue, the Detroit Zoo, and Woodward-corridor communities. The ramps and landings of bike and pedestrian lanes would be improved at all intersections for better accessibility. Corrosion-Free Bridge System, Lawrence Technological University, 21000 West Ten Mile, Southfield, MI, 48075 Amount Requested: $2,000,000 Funding would be used to conduct research, develop technology, test, and implement a Corrosion-Free Bridge System for a safer, longer-lasting surface transportation infrastructure. Such a bridge system would create stronger, lighter, economical, corrosion-free, low-maintenance, and durable structural bridges. The program combines research done through USDOT, MDOT, and Lawrence Tech. Creating a North American World Trade Hub in the Detroit Region, Detroit Regional Chamber, One Woodward Avenue, Suite 1900, Detroit, MI, 48232 Amount Requested: $2,500,000 Funding would allow for a study of the flow of goods and people through the Detroit-Windsor corridor, including a comprehensive freight study, to better develop economic activities related to Detroit’s unique capabilities as a global supply chain hub. Funds would also be used to train workers and upgrade infrastructure to support better efficiency and connectivity for moving goods from the Detroit region to global markets. Intelligent Transportation System Enhancements, Suburban Mobility Authority for Regional Transportation (SMART), 535 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226 Amount Requested: $2,000,000 Funding would provide satellite tracking to SMART’s bus fleet, allowing automated destination messages and verbal updates to riders on the bus’s destination status. This tracking capability will help SMART better plan routes and adjust schedules to meet ridership needs. Funding will also be used for integrated destination signs, on-board security cameras, and automated passenger counters. Reconstruction of Southfield Road between 11 Mile and 12 Mile in Lathrup Village, Michigan, Road Commission for Oakland County, 31001 Lahser, Beverly Hills, MI, 48025 Amount Requested: $10,000,000 Funding would reconstruct a one-mile stretch of Southfield Road in Lathrup Village to a four lane boulevard. Expansion of Southfield Road would improve capacity and safety features in both directions, including better access to and from I-696. Traffic Crash Analysis Tool, Traffic Improvement Association, 2187 Orchard Lake Road, Suite 140, Sylvan Lake, MI, 48320 Amount Requested: $350,000 Funding would upgrade Traffic Crash Analysis Tool software and equipment and make data and analyses available to all communities in Michigan. Improved software will allow analysts to better collect traffic crash data electronically, include programming costs in reports, and make format changes and enhancements to reports. (####)
03.27.2009	“Aldo Vagnozzi was a tireless advocate for the rights of workers. His gracious manner, sense of humor, and his willingness to always pitch in to help others made him a dear friend to so many over his distinguished career. His presence will be missed at so many gatherings, but his work on behalf of the labor movement, in his community and in the State Legislature will have a lasting positive impact for Michigan residents. I extend my deepest sympathies to members of his family.” (####)
03.20.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the announcement by President Obama that the Department of Energy will make available $2.4 billion in grant funding to support advanced battery manufacturing, electric vehicle and component manufacturing, and vehicle electrification demonstration projects. “President Obama’s announcement that the Department of Energy will make $2.4 billion in grant funding available for advanced battery manufacturing and vehicle electrification is a welcome and needed step toward the revitalization of the domestic auto industry. This is exactly the kind of federal partnership that is necessary for the domestic auto industry as it continues working to produce the cars of the future, including plug-in hybrids and electric vehicles.” “Advanced battery manufacturing is a critical gap in America’s industrial base, and one we must close. The domestic auto industry is committed to producing electric vehicles that will reduce emissions and help end our dependence on foreign oil. But we cannot trade our dependence on foreign oil for a dependence on foreign batteries. The President’s announcement today starts us on a path to ensuring that the vehicles of tomorrow, and the batteries that power them, are produced right here in the US.” (####)
03.20.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation to tax the bonuses paid to executives using taxpayer funds. The vote was 328 to 93. Mr. Levin, a member of the Ways and Means Committee that wrote the legislation, spoke in favor of passage. Below are excerpts of his written statement: “We are in the middle of a national economic crisis. “We have lost 4.4 million jobs during this recession. People are losing their homes and in the last quarter of 2008 US Households net worth fell by $5.1 trillion. “All must participate in the solution, and no one should exploit it. “Congress has taken extraordinary steps to stabilize financial market over the last few months, and pumped billions of taxpayer dollars into our nation’s banks. AIG alone has received $150 Billion. “These AIG executives – who worked in the division that wrecked the havoc -- are taking home more money in one bonus payment than 99 percent of Americans take home in a year. The argument that these bonuses were necessary because they are the only ones that could undo the damage is fallacious. We have the authority to use the tax code – not to punish -- but to protect the taxpayer.” Background on the legislation: Taxes the bonuses of highly paid individuals at a rate of 90 percent if their employer received more than five billion dollars in Federal assistance under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Applies to individuals whose total family income exceeds $250,000 per year (adjusted gross income). Affects bonuses received after January 1, 2009 and would cover companies receiving more than three-fourths of financial rescue funds already distributed. (####)
03.19.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the announcement by President Obama’s task force that they are establishing a program to support the automotive supply industry during this domestic downturn and global financial crisis. “The U.S. based supply industry is vital to the survival of the domestic auto industry, and as we have discussed with the Obama Auto team, action by the federal government was urgent,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Today’s action is a clear indication that the goal of the Obama Administration is the survival of a viable, restructured and future-oriented domestic auto industry. “There are still many difficult days ahead for all of the auto stakeholders, but action for suppliers, in advance of the March 31st deadline set in the loans to GM and Chrysler, was exactly what was needed, and the task force should be commended for acting expeditiously,” said Levin. For information on the Auto Supplier Support Program, click here. (####)
03.18.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House Ways and Means Committee introduced legislation this afternoon addressing companies using taxpayer funds to pay executive bonuses. The legislation: Taxes the bonuses of highly paid individuals at a rate of 90 percent if their employer received more than five billion dollars in Federal assistance under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Applies to individuals whose total family income exceeds $250,000 per year (adjusted gross income). Affects bonuses received after January 1, 2009 and would cover companies receiving more than three-fourths of financial rescue funds already distributed. To review the legislation, click here. “Taxpayer monies should not be spent to provide bonuses to the same executives who contributed to the meltdown in our financial markets,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “We have the authority through the tax code to recoup these monies for the taxpayer and we should do so immediately.” “It is vital in our effort to restore stability to the financial system that the public feels these funds are being spent prudently and in a manner targeted to bring relief to Main Street. These outrageous AIG bonuses undercut efforts to build trust, transparency and any sense of fairness, and must be stopped,” concluded Levin. (####)
03.18.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Ways and Means Committee met this morning to prepare legislation that would tax the bonuses provided to AIG executives from taxpayer funds. “Taxpayer monies should not be spent to provide bonuses to the same executives who contributed to the meltdown in our financial markets,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “We have the authority through the tax code to recoup these monies for the taxpayer and we should do so immediately.” “It is vital in our effort to restore stability to the financial system that the public feels these funds are being spent prudently and in a manner targeted to bring relief to Main Street. These outrageous AIG bonuses undercut efforts to build trust, transparency and any sense of fairness, and must be stopped,” concluded Levin. The Ways and Means Committee is consulting with Senate Finance and the Obama Administration and legislation could be considered in the U.S. House in the next days. (####)
03.09.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement after President Obama’s signing of an Executive Order lifting the federal ban on embryonic stem cell research. “A heavy burden has been lifted today from the shoulders of American scientists seeking to understand and potentially cure the most devastating diseases that impact each and every one of our families.” “We cannot be certain that a cure for many devastating diseases will come from the promise of this research, but we can be certain that we will never achieve its promise if we do not re-open this door to scientific research,” said Rep. Sander Levin. In 2001, President Bush limited federal funding to a small number of existing embryonic stem cell lines, severely curtailing the amount of scientific discovery that could come from the research. Congress twice approved legislation by broad bi-partisan majorities that would have expanded the number of stem cell lines that could be studied with federally research funds. Both bills would have only allowed the use of excess embryos created for in vitro fertilization that would have otherwise been discarded, and required permission of the donors of the embryos. President Bush vetoed both pieces of legislation. President Obama’s executive order reverses President Bush’s policy and allows researchers to gain federal support for seeking the full range of cures and therapies that stem cell research may unlock. (####)
03.05.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-Mi) issued the following statement regarding the announcement that Michigan’s unemployment rate for January was 11.6 percent. “The economic downturn is getting worse for Michigan’s families and it is essential that government act on several fronts to stabilize the economy,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “The recovery package is a good first step and those monies are beginning to flow, but we must take more action.” “We must approve additional legislation to stem mortgage foreclosures and keep families in their homes. We need to accelerate efforts to get credit flowing for small businesses, auto dealers and consumers. And, we must acknowledge the ongoing impact these economic conditions have on the entire domestic automotive sector and the need for additional federal support to weather this crisis and bring all stakeholders to table for further restructuring.” “Importantly, if any individual needs assistance accessing unemployment insurance, COBRA health care, training, mortgage assistance, or other federal programs reach out to our local office,” said Rep. Levin. Rep. Levin’s office can be contacted at 586-498-7122 or 248-968-2025. (####)
03.04.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin praised Governor Granholm’s announcement today that two projects in communities bordering Lake St. Clair are eligible to receive funding under the economic recovery legislation recently approved by Congress. The two Lake St. Clair-related projects eligible for assistance would provide federal Clean Water funds to projects in Center Line and Fraser to correct longstanding problems with the sanitary sewers in these communities. Rep. Levin contacted Governor Granholm in February to underscore the need to continue to reduce pollution in the Clinton River and Lake St. Clair. “Using the recovery funds for these projects will help reduce pollution in the Clinton River and Lake St. Clair,” said Rep. Levin. “This is an excellent use of the economic recovery funds. It will create jobs and keep millions of gallons of raw sewage from fouling the environment.” Congress included a total of $4 billion in the economic recovery bill to help states and localities address water infrastructure needs. Michigan received a total of $168.5 million for its Clean Water State Revolving Fund (SRF) program. Since the late 1980s, Congress has provided funding each year to help capitalize the states’ SRFs, which provide low-interest loans to help communities upgrade sewer and water treatment plants. The amount of clean water funding Congress provided to Michigan in the recovery bill was six times larger than the amount of Clean Water SRF money allocated to Michigan in 2008. Since the Clean Water Revolving Fund was created in the late 1980s, the Michigan SFR has awarded over $3 billion to Michigan communities to upgrade water infrastructure. (####)
02.26.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement on President Barack Obama’s budget outline, released today: “Importantly, this budget is a more honest reflection of what the federal government will actually spend because it doesn’t ignore large expenditures like the cost of ongoing military deployments abroad, natural disaster spending, and required changes to the tax code. It also returns to pay-as-you budgeting rules and sets a difficult course to cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term. “The budget also provides an outline for a much fairer tax system with a focus right where we need it: on middle class tax relief. The income gap has grown to unacceptable levels and the Obama budget begins to address this by extending relief to the middle class, and letting the Bush tax cuts expire for couples making more than a quarter of a million dollars. “I am also glad to see that like legislation I introduced in the last Congress, the Obama budget ends the carried interest tax advantage. Investment professionals should not be allowed to pay a lower rate of tax on their compensation than other Americans when they are being paid to provide a service managing other people’s money and fairness requires that they be taxed at the rates generally applicable to service income. “The budget also outlines some very clear priorities: health care, energy and education and makes needed investments in our roads, our communities and in manufacturing support programs that have been curtailed in recent years. The budget also begins to fulfill President Obama’s promise to help restore the Great Lakes including a new $475 million inter-agency initiative to accelerate restoration of the Great Lakes. And, before Republicans begin to talk about tax policy during a recession they should review the budget tables that illustrate when proposals are implemented. “These are difficult economic times. This budget blueprint, after the much needed Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act, sets out the right priorities for restoring economic confidence and growing our economy.” (####)
02.24.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement tonight after President Barack Obama’s address to Congress. “President Barack Obama was both sobering and stirring. “He was sober about the challenges we face as individuals and as a nation and stirring about the actions we can and must take to meet these challenges whether its jobs, housing, health care, education or energy independence. “The President hit it out of the park when he said, “the nation that invented the automobile cannot walk away from it.” And, he demonstrated he understands the role of advanced technology in the automotive industry when he indicated that we cannot accept a future where domestic electric cars are powered by Korean batteries. “The path forward is not easy, but the President demonstrated his capacity for leadership tonight and offered the American people a blueprint for a brighter future” (####)
02.18.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan. “Effectively addressing the foreclosure crisis goes hand-in-hand with restoring stability to the financial system and jumpstarting our economy. The loss of a home is devastating to each individual family, brings down home prices for entire communities, strains local government budgets and undermines our ability to recover from this deepening economic crisis. “By leveraging the Federal Government’s investment in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to refinance fixed rate mortgages for homeowners who owe more than their home is worth, providing real incentives for lenders and homeowners to modify subprime mortgages, ensuring the availability of affordable new mortgages, and instituting needed reforms, we can prevent many of the foreclosures that threaten to send home values ever farther downward. This plan also complements the nearly $6 billion Congress has committed for local governments to address foreclosures through the Neighborhood Stabilization Fund. “As the President noted today, this plan will not stop every foreclosure, nor will it rescue unscrupulous speculators or dishonest lenders. The Federal Government’s actions to date have proved insufficient to solve the foreclosure crisis. The solution offered by the President is comprehensive, targets the right problems and holds all involved accountable.” (####)
02.17.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the submission by General Motors and Chrysler to the U.S. Treasury Department in accordance with their federal loan agreements. “The plans submitted today by General Motors and Chrysler are a serious effort setting forth detailed, accelerated restructuring plans with more conservative assumptions reflecting worsening market conditions. We are seeing the transformation of the domestic industry right before our eyes and it is a difficult challenge for all of those involved. “What is also clear is that deepening recession and the inability of the federal government to date to get credit flowing again continues to hinder efforts to stabilize the industry. Both plans describe a downside scenario for sales unprecedented in 20 years and this should be a call to action for Washington to continue efforts to stabilize the financial markets and jumpstart our economy. “As Washington fully reviews these comprehensive documents, it must become an active partner in seeing negotiations with all stakeholders come to fruition by March 31st and responding to the financial needs in the context of the intrinsic value this industry plays in the U.S. economy. “The importance of a successful restructuring and avoiding the overwhelming pitfalls of bankruptcy was illustrated today when my brother, Senator Carl Levin, and I visited with engineers designing the Chevy Volt, GM’s electric vehicle set to hit showrooms in 2010. This is the future we are fighting for. Not one of bankruptcy but for a vibrant domestic industry that helps end our dependence on foreign oil, melds a strong manufacturing base with environmental sustainability, makes us the leader again in advanced technologies, and keeps generating good paying jobs.” (####)
02.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding the Presidential Task Force on Autos. “The Presidential Task Force on Autos can provide the leadership needed on part of the Federal government as the domestic automakers continue the dramatic re-structuring necessary to weather the global financial crisis and accelerate efforts to build the cars of the future. “President Obama has asked his most senior economic advisors to be involved in this effort and that is a signal of the importance he gives to its role and responsibility. They have the leverage necessary working with all of stakeholders to make the difficult decisions necessary to continue the rejuvenating of a domestic auto industry that is vital to our manufacturing base, future technologies, ending the dependence on foreign oil and millions of good-paying jobs.” (####)
02.13.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Speaking in favor of the Economic Recovery and Reinvestment package, Rep. Sander Levin made the following statement on the Floor of the U.S. House this morning. “Families are Fearful for their jobs, their health care, education and the stability of their local community. For the [Republican] Minority, they say they acknowledge the pain but they have no prescription. Only worn out ideology. “I will head home and look families straight in the eye and say the Federal Government is on your side providing support during this downturn and making key investments for the future.” You can view Mr. Levin’s entire floor statement below: Summary of Some Key Provisions for Workers and Individuals Provides 95% of working families with tax relief through a Making Work Pay tax credit of up to $400 per individual ($800 for couples). An estimated 3.9 million Michigan families will receive the credit. Provides a payment of $250 to Social Security beneficiaries, SSI recipients, and veterans receiving disability compensation and pension benefits from the VA. Summary of Some Key Job Creation Provisions Provides $27.5 billion for modernizing roads and bridges and requires states to obligate at least half of the highway/bridge funding within 120 days. Provides $6 billion to states and localities for Clean Water infrastructure and safe drinking water. For Michigan, this results in $847.2 million for roads and highways and 169.8 million in water and sewer infrastructure. Provides $5 billion to create jobs by improving the energy efficiency of more than one million modest-income homes through weatherization. For Michigan, this results in 124.7 million in weatherization. Extending and Improving Unemployment Benefits Continues through December 2009 the extended unemployment benefits program which will enable 161,870 additional jobless workers in Michigan to qualify for extended benefits. Temporarily suspends the taxation of some unemployment benefits for individuals. Increases unemployment benefits for 20 million jobless workers by $25 per week. 1 million individuals will receive this increase and it is estimated to equal $536 million. Encourages states to modernize their UI systems to keep up with the changing workforce with expanded coverage. The State of Michigan will immediately receive $16 million in Administrative funding, plus $77 million because it already qualifies for one of the modernization standards. Waives the interest on the money states have borrowed from the federal government for the UI programs. This saves the State of Michigan $40 million. Provides the full 100% of the extended benefit program to states that qualify and implement this program. The Extended Benefit program is a permanent part of the law (different from the above temporary extension) that allows States to fund additional weeks of unemployment. The permanent law is usually paid for 50/50 federal/state. Michigan entered the EB program during the last week of January 2009 and could provide to unemployed workers who have exhausted all UI benefits an additional 13 weeks of assistance. Provides Health Insurance for Unemployed Workers for the first time. Currently, laid-off workers, under the COBRA program, can buy into their former employer’s health insurance. But the premiums are often prohibitively expensive. In order to help people maintain their health coverage, the bill provides a 60% subsidy for COBRA premiums for up to 9 months. Historic Expansion of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program to cover many more workers over the next two years who lose their jobs because of increased imports or factory shifts and to increase the training funds and improve health care coverage. In Michigan, this expanded TAA program is estimated to cover 6,500 additional workers. Summary of Key Provisions for Advanced Technologies in Automotive and Manufacturing Sectors Provides $2 billion in grants to support U.S. development of advanced vehicle batteries and battery systems so that America can lead the world in transforming the way automobiles are powered. Provides incentives to buy new cars with a tax deduction for State and local sales taxes paid on the purchase. Provides a tax credit for families that purchase plug-in hybrid vehicles to spur the next generation of American cars with a 200,000 per manufacturer cap that sets us on a path of reaching President Obama’s goal of a million plug-ins by 2015. Establishes a new manufacturing investment tax credit for investment in advanced energy facilities, such as facilities that manufacture components for the production of renewable energy, advanced battery technology, and other innovative next-generation green technologies. Summary of Key Stablization and Investment Provisions Establishes a $53.6 billion State Fiscal Stabilization Fund to help prevent job losses and cutbacks in education and other key services. For Michigan, this is estimated to result in $1.3 billion for education and 293 million for general stabilization purposes. Provides $13 billion for Title I education and $12.2 billion for Special Education/IDEA. For Michigan, this is estimated to result in $2 Billion for our school. Provides $4 billion for State and local law enforcement efforts. Provides $1 billion for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program for community and economic development projects. Importantly for the State of Michigan, the Recovery package also provides Michigan with an additional $2.2 billion over three years in additional federal contributions to the state’s Medicaid program Importantly for General Motors, the Recovery package also clarifies that they will not suffer a tax liability under Section 382 because of restructuring they are doing under the federal bridge loans. (####)
02.12.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congress has reached agreement on a major economic recovery and reinvestment package to create jobs, jumpstart economic activity and transform our economy. The impact of this package will be particularly important to Michigan families and in the State’s effort to create jobs and re-shape our economy. The U.S. House is scheduled to vote on the Recovery package tomorrow. “Our economy is reeling, and this comprehensive recover package sends a strong message to families that we are acting aggressively to support them during this downturn, to jumpstart economic activity and make key investments for the future,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “The revisions to the Unemployment Insurance system and the Trade Adjustment Assistance program are historic and will be essential to supporting families during the downturn and to training for new jobs.” “This package is a good balance for Michigan: immediate economic assistance for families, quick job creation, targeted support for areas like education and health care key to the fabric of families and communities, and investments in energy and advanced automotive technologies,” concluded Levin. Summary of Some Key Provisions for Workers and Individuals Provides 95% of working families with tax relief through a Making Work Pay tax credit of up to $400 per individual ($800 for couples). An estimated 3.9 million Michigan families will receive the credit. Provides a payment of $250 to Social Security beneficiaries, SSI recipients, and veterans receiving disability compensation and pension benefits from the VA. Extending and Improving Unemployment Benefits Continues through December 2009 the extended unemployment benefits program which will enable 161,870 additional jobless workers in Michigan to qualify for extended benefits. Temporarily suspends the taxation of some unemployment benefits for individuals Increases unemployment benefits for 20 million jobless workers by $25 per week. Encourages states to modernize their UI systems to keep up with the changing workforce with expanded coverage. The State of Michigan will immediately receive $16 million in Administrative funding, plus $77 million because it already qualifies for one of the modernization standards. Waives the interest on the money states have borrowed from the federal government for the UI programs. This saves the State of Michigan $40 million. Provides the full 100% of the extended benefit program to states that qualify and implement this program. The Extended Benefit program is a permanent part of the law (different from the above temporary extension) that allows States to fund additional weeks of unemployment. The permanent law is usually paid for 50/50 federal/state. Michigan entered the EB program during the last week of January 2009 and could provide to unemployed workers who have exhausted all UI benefits an additional 13 weeks of assistance. Provides Health Insurance for Unemployed Workers for the first time. Currently, laid-off workers, under the COBRA program, can buy into their former employer’s health insurance. But the premiums are often prohibitively expensive. In order to help people maintain their health coverage, the bill provides a 60% subsidy for COBRA premiums for up to 9 months. Historic Expansion of Trade Adjustment Assistance program to cover many more workers over the next two years who lose their jobs because of increased imports or factory shifts and to increase the training funds and improve health care coverage. Summary of Key Provisions for Advanced Technologies in Automotive and Manufacturing Sectors Provides $2 billion to support U.S. development of advanced vehicle batteries and battery systems through loans and grants so that America can lead the world in transforming the way automobiles are powered. Provides incentives to buy new cars, including light trucks and SUVs, with a tax deduction for State and local sales taxes paid on the purchase. Provides a tax credit for families that purchase plug-in hybrid vehicles of up to $7,500 to spur the next generation of American cars with a 200,000 per manufacturer cap that sets us on a path of reaching President Obama’s goal of a million plug-ins by 2015. Provides $580 million for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, including the Technology Innovation Program and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership. Establishes a new manufacturing investment tax credit for investment in advanced energy facilities, such as facilities that manufacture components for the production of renewable energy, advanced battery technology, and other innovative next-generation green technologies. Summary of Other Key Investment and Job Creation Provisions Provides $27.5 billion for modernizing roads and bridges and requires states to obligate at least half of the highway/bridge funding within 120 days. Provides $8.4 billion for investments in public transportation. Provides $6 billion to states and localities for Clean Water infrastructure and safe drinking water. Provides $5 billion to create jobs by improving the energy efficiency of more than one million modest-income homes through weatherization. Establishes a $53.6 billion State Fiscal Stabilization Fund to help prevent job losses and cutbacks in education and other key services. The Fund includes $40.6 billion to local school districts to be used to prevent cutback and layoffs and modernize schools. Provides $13 billion for Title I education and $12.2 billion for Special Education/IDEA. Provides $4 billion for State and local law enforcement efforts. Provides $1 billion for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program for community and economic development projects. Importantly for the State of Michigan, the Recovery package also provides Michigan with an additional $2 billion over three years in additional federal contributions to the state’s Medicaid program Importantly for General Motors, the Recovery package also clarifies that they will not suffer a tax liability under Section 382 because of restructuring they are doing under the federal bridge loans. (####)
02.06.2009	(Washington D.C.)- In response to today’s jobs report from the Department of Labor (DoL), Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) reiterated the importance of fast action on the recovery package pending in Congress. “These statistics are staggering, and the workers and families behind them are unsettled over our nation’s continuing economic decline,” said Rep. Levin. “We must finish work on a comprehensive recover package to create jobs, make key investments to re-shape our economy, and support families during the downturn.” “There is a crisis of confidence in our country,” Rep. Levin said. “In our communities, neighbors are being laid off, homes are foreclosing, roads are in disrepair, schools and local governments are cutting back and families are losing health insurance.” “The recovery package responds to these concerns, and will begin to stabilize the spiraling downturn,” concluded Rep. Levin. Key Facts from the Jobs Report 598,000 jobs were lost in January – the 13th straight month of jobs losses and the worst month of job losses since 1974.3.6 million jobs have been lost since the start of the recession in December 2007. About one-half of this decline occurred in the past 3 months.The national unemployment rate rose to 7.6%. The number of unemployed Americans is now 11.6 million -- the highest level in 27 years. (####)
02.05.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Agreement has been reached to add a major expansion of the Trade Adjustment Assistance program to the Economic Recovery and Reinvestment package. The House approved comprehensive legislation last year, but the Senate did not act. In recent weeks, Members have been working on a bi-partisan basis and with the Obama Administration to craft comprehensive legislation, modeled on the House legislation, to be added to the recovery package. “These difficult economic times require that we use every tool in the toolbox and an expanded trade adjustment program is vital in assisting workers as they transition to new good-paying jobs,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “This reform will assist many more workers impacted by globalization and provide much needed resources to states for training programs.” Their amendment, the Trade and Globalization Adjustment Act of 2009, will authorize Trade Adjustment Assistance through 2010 and redesign benefits to be more flexible and accessible. The proposal: • expands eligibility to workers in services industries and the public sector• increases funds available for training programs by nearly 160 percent and provides more flexible training• makes health care more available and affordable for covered workers • assists trade-affected American firms become more competitive• creates new opportunities for workers in communities negatively affected by trade• helps farmers, ranchers, and fishermen become more competitive, and • makes benefits available to workers whose jobs are offshored to any country. Preventing Layoffs and Creating New Jobs Here at Home • More than triples funding for TAA for Firms. The TAA for Firms program, which helps businesses adjust to foreign competition, has a backlog of approved but unfunded projects equivalent to a full year’s funding at current levels. The amendment authorizes $50 million for the program and expands the program’s reach by allowing firms to show a decline in sales or production over one, two, or three years instead of the current one year allowed. • TAA for Communities. The amendment authorizes $230 million for trade adjustment assistance for communities affected by trade. The bill makes qualifying communities eligible for strategic planning grants, with preference given to small and medium sized communities, as well as for economic development grants to pursue adjustment projects identified in the community’s strategic plan. It also provides grants to community colleges and other educational institutions to improve training programs. And the amendment helps communities create partnerships between the private and public sector to create jobs and training opportunities in high growth fields, such as green jobs and healthcare. Opportunities for More American Workers • TAA benefits for service sector workers and firms. Current law covers workers who produce articles that are subject to import competition. For the first time, the bill provides TAA benefits to trade-affected workers who supply services. The bill also expands eligibility to qualifying secondary workers in the services sector, including those supplying transportation, finishing, testing, packaging, and maintenance services to a firm whose workers are eligible to receive TAA. • Coverage for workers whose firms shift production to non-FTA partner countries. Current law covers shifts in production to FTA-partner or certain preference program countries. The bill ensures that workers whose firms shift production to any country, including China or India, are eligible for TAA without having to meet other tests. • Eligibility protections for Americans on active duty military service. The bill allows workers called up for active duty military service to restart their TAA enrollment process 30 days after completing of their service, or after a later date determined by the Secretary. If TAA-eligible workers are called into active duty, the benefit clock stops until they are ready to return to their retraining program. This ensures that servicemen and servicewomen called up for Reserve or National Guard duties have access upon their return to the full benefits to which they are entitled. • Expanded TAA eligibility for workers in the public sector. The bill, for the first time, makes the full range of TAA benefits available to workers in the public sector when jobs are outsourced or lost due to import competition, including public hospitals, human resource offices and certain state and local program benefits offices. • Automatic eligibility for workers suffering from unfair trade and import surges. Unfair foreign subsidies and dumping of foreign goods and unexpected import surges can injure U.S. industries and cause workers in those industries to lose their jobs. The amendment allows firms in such industries to seek automatic TAA certification for workers who are laid off one year before or after an affirmative injury determination by the U.S. International Trade Commission with respect to the firm. • Eligibility for manufacturers of component parts. Under current law, a firm that supplies component parts to another firm may be certified for TAA benefits only if the customer employed workers who were adversely affected by trade and receive TAA certification. If the customer’s workers do not obtain TAA certification, the workers who lose their jobs at the component part supplier cannot either. The amendment remedies this shortcoming in current law. It also allows firms that supply component parts to foreign customers to petition for benefits if their customers switch to component parts produced outside the United States. • Simpler eligibility criteria and expanded technical assistance for Farmers and Fishermen. The amendment reduces the commodity price decline that producers must demonstrate to qualify for benefits from 20 % to 15%, and it reduces the historical price data required from five years to three. The amendment clarifies that fishermen and aquaculture producers may receive TAA benefits whether they are competing against imported farmed or wild-caught fish or seafood. The amendment provides targeted training that was previously unavailable to most participants. Producers who successfully complete the training phases become eligible for up to $12,000 in seed money to use their new skills and implement a business plan. More Training for Good-Paying Jobs • $575 million in training funds – 160 percent more than the current amount. Current law caps training funds at $220 million. In the past, some states have run out of training funds. The amendment authorizes up to $575 million for fiscal years 2009 and 2010, and prorates such funds for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending December 31, 2010. • More flexible training options. The amendment improves training options, including expanded opportunities for long-term training, part-time training, and pre-layoff training. • Grants to community colleges and other educational institutions to improve training programs. In order to make local TAA training programs more responsive to the needs of local job markets and employers, the bill authorizes $40 million in annual grants to community colleges and other educational institutions over two years. To qualify for these grants administered by the Secretary of Labor, the community college or other institution must partner with local community stakeholders, including employers and labor unions, to determine local workforce needs. Better Service and Better Outreach to Workers in Transition • Easier access to benefits. The bill streamlines multiple training enrollment deadlines (currently 8 weeks after certification or 16 weeks after separation, and 210 days after layoff) into one: 26 weeks after layoff or certification, whichever is later. It allows states to grant training waivers to workers with postgraduate degrees to allow more time for job search, and to workers disqualified due to state error. The bill gives 6 extra months for a worker to complete pre-requisite courses (necessary to enter most programs in healthcare), improves accountability for on-the-job training placements, extends TRA benefits for a worker whose approved training and TRA benefits were delayed, and ensures that workers who win administrative or judicial appeals are not penalized for time lost during such appeals. • Improving the affordability and availability of health coverage. The Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) program provides health insurance benefits to TAA eligible workers or retirees covered by pension plans taken over by PBGC who have lost their employer-sponsored coverage. While many workers are eligible for the HCTC program, few enroll due to lack of affordability and difficulty in the enrollment process. The Senate amendment improves the HCTC program by increasing the premium subsidy level from 65 percent to 80 percent, providing workers retroactive payments to help cover the up-front costs of obtaining health coverage, improving coverage of spouses and dependents, and establishing new reporting requirements on the costs and types of health benefits available to this population. The proposal also provides $150 million in grant funding to help states improve the availability of health insurance options and to help TAA eligible workers and retirees cover their monthly health premium costs. Discussions on this issue may continue as the process moves forward. • More accessible wage insurance that works with other benefits. For workers who seek quick re-employment, current law provides wage insurance – 50 percent of the wage differential between the old job and the new job up to $10,000 – to workers more than 50 years of age. Current law, however, makes it difficult for an individual worker to qualify and requires a recipient of wage insurance to forfeit training. The amendment eliminates the requirement to forfeit training to be eligible for wage insurance, and it allows workers to switch from trade readjustment allowances (TRAs) to wage insurance payments at any time during their training. Further, the amendment provides for a worker who successfully completes training and is reemployed to receive reemployment TAA benefits in lieu of TRA benefits for the remainder of the worker’s TRA eligibility. And the provision raises the maximum yearly earnings of an eligible worker to $55,000 (from $50,000), and the maximum two-year benefit to $12,000 (from $10,000). • Funding to help state caseworkers spend time with TAA clients. TAA funds do not pay for caseworker time with clients, so states must use other sources of funds (including from shrinking non-entitlement programs like the Workforce Investment Act) to provide proper assessment, career counseling, and other case management services. The amendment provides $86 million per year to states for administrative and case management services, as well as an additional $350,000 to each state per year for case management services. • Creates an Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance and improves outreach to workers. The GAO has found that few workers are aware of or understand TAA benefits. The bill creates an Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance within the Department of Labor, and creates a Deputy Assistant Secretary (DAS) for Employment and Training to oversee the office. The office will make eligibility determinations, give technical assistance to petitioners, explain benefits to participants, and provide feedback to Congress on TAA service delivery. (####)
02.04.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 2, the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act, by a vote of 290-135. This landmark, bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which currently provides health insurance for more than seven million children. Today’s legislation protects coverage for those children, and expands it to include an additional four million children who would otherwise be uninsured. President Barack Obama is expected to sign the bill into law this afternoon. “This health care legislation demonstrates to the American people that change has come to Washington, D.C. and during these difficult economic times we are going to move quickly on behalf of families,” said Rep. Levin. “Covering millions of children in need of health care is a good first step to broad-based health care reform and a system that provides universal coverage.” The legislation would extend the current program covering 7 million children and provide additional resources to extend coverage to over 4 million uninsured children. The bill also provides $100 million in grants for outreach to find and enroll eligible children and improves the program by guaranteeing dental coverage and mental health care benefits. The Congressional Research Service (CRS) released an analysis today estimating that Michigan would receive an increase of $57.2 million in SCHIP funding for FY09 under the bill approved today. The increase from $146.2 million to $203.4 million amounts to a 39% increase in funding for the fiscal year. (####)
01.27.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Earlier today the House of Representatives began debate on H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, including provisions approved by the Committee on Ways and Means. The House is expected to vote on the measure tomorrow afternoon. Rep. Sander Levin spoke about the urgency of the recovery package this evening during the debate and filed the following Floor Statement in support of the legislation: “There is a crisis of confidence in our country. Much of it related to the meltdown that has occurred within the financial system. “But there is also an uncertainty on the part of everyday people across this country about whether they will be able to maintain the basics in their lives. They wonder if the bottom is going to fall out from beneath their families. “People are worried about their jobs and whether they will be able to meet the mortgage payment. This bill contains funds to create jobs by building roads, sewers, a new electric grid and other needed infrastructure. It also contains a tax cut for 95% of working Americans. “People are worried about whether they’ll have health insurance for themselves and their families. This bill provides a 65% subsidy for COBRA health care coverage for unemployment workers. There is another provision that will allow people to qualify temporarily for Medicaid until they find another job or alternative health care. It is estimated that these two provisions will provide health insurance to more than 8 million people. “They’re worried about the cutbacks they see happening in education and how it will affect their kids. And they wonder if they will be able to send their children to college. This bill contains funding for states and school districts to prevent deep cuts in critical education programs and modernize and repair schools. The bill also boosts Pell grants by $500 to make college more affordable. “As much as anything, people are wondering whether the federal government is going to take action to help them -- or will the old political divisions keep this Congress from taking effective action to help people in their daily lives. By passing this bill, we show that we will step up to the plate and help address these concerns. This bill is a first step. Other steps will be needed, but this recovery package is a good beginning.” (####)
01.26.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI-12) issued the following statement after President Obama’s announcement on the two Executive Orders he signed toward achieving energy independence. “The time has come for everyone to join together in the partnership described by President Obama on the journey toward energy independence. As the President indicated that means working on a bi-partisan and with industry to build more fuel efficient cars and build them in the United States. I am encouraged by the President’s commitment to craft a comprehensive approach and to avoid the risks of a confusing patchwork of fuel standards. This consistency as well as certainty going forward is important as our domestic industry accelerates necessary efforts to restructure and re-tool to meet increasing fuel standards. “I also urge that further action by the Federal government is necessary on the path toward production and deployment of advanced technology vehicles. This spotlights the importance of current efforts to increase federal support for battery development, the Section 136 re-tooling loans, the Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle tax credit and improving the electrical grid and expanding alternative energy infrastructure. “As the Administration proceeds to draft new fuel economy standards and begins its review of the California waiver, it is vital that all stakeholders be involved in developing a rational and national path forward to reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil, curb greenhouse gas emissions, and create new jobs here in the United States.” (####)
01.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan, released today by U.S. House Leadership, is a comprehensive recovery package that will bring many positive developments to the State of Michigan and our residents. “This recovery package focuses on both short-term stimulus measures and long-term investments and covers many fronts including health care, unemployment insurance, tax relief, the rebuilding of key roads and schools, and investments in alternative technologies vital to the future of the auto industry,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “This economic recovery package can provide a significant boost for our communities and families and the right investments toward the transformation of our State’s economy.” “We must continue to rebuild support for our manufacturing sector which has lost over 4 million jobs since 2001,” said Rep. Levin. “As we continue to support the auto industry’s efforts to undertake vital restructuring these next months, the Federal government must become a much strong partner to spur the development and manufacturing of advanced battery and other technologies important to producing the cars of the future in the U.S.” The following items are specific to alternative fuel vehicles: Advanced Battery Loans and Grants: $2 billion for the Advanced Battery Loan Guarantee and Grants Program, to support U.S. manufacturers of advanced batteries and battery systems. America should lead the world in transforming the way automobiles are powered. GSA Federal Fleet: $600 million to replace older vehicles owned by the federal government with alternative fuel automobiles that will save on fuel costs and reduce carbon emissions. Alternative Refueling Property Tax Credit: Increases the tax credit for installing alternative refueling property (including rapid recharging units for electric vehicles and E85 pumps) is increased from 30 percent to 50 percent. Electric Transportation: $200 million for a new grant program to encourage electric vehicle technologies. Alternative Buses and Trucks: $400 million to help state and local governments purchase efficient alternative fuel vehicles to reduce costs and carbon emissions. Executive Summary of the Package Help Workers Hurt by the Economy: High unemployment and rising costs have outpaced Americans’ paychecks. We will help workers train and find jobs, and help struggling families make ends meet. • Provide extended unemployment benefits through 2009, modernize unemployment benefits and strengthen job training. • $90 billion for a temporary increase in the Medicaid matching rate;• $39 billion to help those who lose their jobs pay the cost of keeping their employer-provided health care under COBRA and providing short-term options to be covered by Medicaid.• Increase the food stamp benefit by over 13% to help offset rising food costs. Protect Vital Services: We will provide relief to states, so that they can continue to employ teachers, firefighters and police and provide vital services without having to unnecessarily raise middle class taxes. • $87 billion for a temporary increase in the Medicaid matching rate to preserve health care during a time of state budget crisis, and keep other vital services intact.• $4 billion for state and local law enforcement funding. Tax Cuts to Make Work Pay and Create Jobs: We will provide direct tax relief to 95 percent of American workers, as President-elect Obama pledged, and spur investment and job growth for American businesses. • Tax Relief for American Families o The Make Work Pay Tax Cut provides immediate and sustained tax relief to 95 percent of American workers, with a refundable tax credit of $500 per worker and $1,000 per couple, phasing-out at $200,000 for a couple.o Expand the number of families who can access the Child Tax Credit, and the Earned Income Tax Credit. • Business Tax Incentives to Spur Investment and Job Growth o The Net Operating Loss Carryback provision gets cash flowing immediately to businesses during this credit crunch, allowing them to write off current losses against past profits up to 5 years (instead of just 2). This benefit is not available to companies that have benefited under the TARP.o Bonus Depreciation provides immediate tax relief for businesses investing in new plants and equipment by speeding up depreciation deductions.o Extending Small Business Expensing allows the doubling of the amount small businesses can immediately write off on their taxes for capital investments and for purchase of new equipment.o Providing businesses with a tax credit for hiring disconnected youth and veterans, and delaying withholding tax on government contractors provides small businesses with relief. • A First-time Homebuyer Incentive repeals the payback requirement on this tax credit, and the proposal makes grants to states for low-income housing. Both will address the housing crisis at the root of our recession. • Reinvigorating the Market for State and Local Government Bonds will get local projects moving, and provides tax credit and exempt bonds to areas hurt by the recession. Modernize Roads, Bridges, Transit and Waterways: To build a 21st century economy, we must create jobs rebuilding our crumbling roads, and bridges, modernize public buildings, and put people to work cleaning our air, water and land. • $32 billion in transportation, of which $30 billion is for highway construction (every dollar of highway investments creates more than 34,000 jobs);• $31 billion to modernize federal and other public infrastructure with investments that lead to long term energy cost savings; • $19 billion for clean water, flood control, and environmental restoration investments; • $10 billion for transit and rail to reduce traffic congestion and gas consumption. Education for the 21st Century: We will enable students of all ages to learn in 21st century classrooms, labs, and libraries to help our students compete with any worker in the world. • $41 billion to boost learning in local school districts through Title I ($13 billion), IDEA ($13 billion), a new School Modernization and Repair Program ($14 billion), and the Education Technology program ($1 billion);• $79 billion in state fiscal relief to prevent cutbacks to key services, including $39 billion to local school districts and public colleges and universities using existing formulas and $15 billion to states as bonus grants for meeting key performance measures;• $25 billion to states for other high priority needs such as preventing the layoffs of public safety and other critical employees including teachers;• $21 billion in school modernization; and • Making college more affordable through tax credits for college tuition for up to $2,500 per year of school and increasing the PELL grant by $500 Clean, Efficient, American Energy: To put people back to work today and reduce our dependence on foreign oil tomorrow, we will increase renewable energy production and renovate public buildings to make them more energy efficient. • $32 billion to transform the nation’s energy transmission, distribution, production and storage systems by allowing for a smarter and better grid to transmit renewable energy, and new advanced battery technology to power fuel-efficient, low-emissions vehicles.• More than $20 billion in tax cuts for clean, renewable energy including a new enhanced tax credit for research and development focusing on smart energy conservation, energy efficiency, and renewable energy, and a multi-year extension of the production tax credit for wind, hydro, geothermal, and bioenergy. • $16 billion to repair public housing and make key energy efficiency retrofits. • $6 billion to weatherize modest-income homes. Lower Health Care Costs: To save not only jobs, but money and lives, we will update and computerize our health care system to cut red tape, prevent medical mistakes, and help reduce health care costs by billions of dollars each year. • $20 billion for health information technology to prevent medical mistakes, provide better care to patients and introduce cost-saving efficiencies.• $4 billion to provide for preventative care and to evaluate the most effective health care. (####)
01.15.2009	(Washington D.C.)- A bipartisan group of 37 Members of Congress wrote to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other House leaders on Wednesday to urge funding for loans and grants for advanced batteries and vehicles in the economic recovery package. The letter was organized by Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) and Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA). The letter read, in part: “We cannot move from a dependency on foreign oil to a dependency on foreign-made technology. Nearly all batteries for hybrid electric vehicles are made in Pacific Rim countries. Although U.S. federal spending on advanced batteries jumped from $24.4 million in FY 2006 to $56.1 million in FY 2008, Japan – the acknowledged leader in advanced battery production – has been investing in this technology for many years. We have not. We are coming to the game late and must build capability quickly to keep up. Funding for electric transportation technologies will be essential to achieving President-elect Obama’s goal of placing one million plug-in hybrid vehicles on the road by 2015 and ensure that these vehicles are built here in America. The letter calls for $1 billion in grants to support advanced battery manufacturing in the U.S. along with other components for advanced technology vehicles, as well as funding to support $3.3 billion in loan guarantees for advanced batteries and battery systems. The lawmakers also urged funding to support another $25 billion in federal loans for retooling U.S. manufacturing facilities to produce advanced vehicles. Congress approved $25 billion for this purpose last fall and the Department of Energy has already received over 70 applications for funding. Also signing the letter were Michigan Representatives Dingell, Kildee, Stupak, Kilpatrick, Miller, Peters, Schauer, Upton, Rogers and Conyers. “The Federal government must be an active partner in moving towards electric and plug-in vehicles,” said Rep. Levin, “We are at a critical juncture in the commercialization of advanced battery technology to power the next generation of green vehicles and we must be in the position to produce the essential components in the U.S. and not rely on advanced technology and critical building blocks produced elsewhere. " (####)
01.09.2009	(Washington D.C.)- In response to today’s announcement from the Department of Labor (DoL) that the number of unemployed Americans went up to more than 11 million -- the highest level in 25 years -- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today reiterated the importance of fast action on a recovery project and inclusion of unemployment insurance expansion, Trade Adjustment Assistance and job creation funds. DoL figures released today indicated that 524,000 jobs were lost in December alone, with over a million jobs lost in the last two months, and 2.5 million jobs lost in 2008. The national unemployment rate also jumped to 7.2 percent. “This recession is growing deeper for our nation and much more difficult for individual families,” said Rep. Levin. “We must act quickly and effectively to both jumpstart the economy and put in place long-term recovery measures like job creation, job training and key investments in advanced technology manufacturing.” December national employment data: • National unemployment rate for December: 7.2%. Up from 6.8% in November (this number was revised up from the originally reported rate of 6.7% for November). The current unemployment rate is the highest since January 1993. • Jobs lost nationally in December: 524,000. Over 2008, the U.S. has lost 2.51 million jobs. 1.1 million were lost in the last two months alone. • Manufacturing jobs lost in December: 149,000. Since August, 445,000 manufacturing jobs have been lost. Since the start of the recession in December 2007, the U.S. has lost 791,000 manufacturing jobs. • Number of unemployed people, December: 11.1 million. Since the start of the recession, the number of unemployed people has increased by 3.6 million. The current level is the highest in 25 years. • Number of long-term unemployed, December: 2.6 million. This number is almost double what it was in January 2008. It is still the highest level of long-term unemployed since 1983. In addition to continuing to Chair the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, Rep. Levin has joined the Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee with direct jurisdiction over the unemployment insurance program. (####)
01.07.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Homeland Security announced on December 31st that Oakland County will receive $1,099,037 and Macomb County will receive $940,777 from the Emergency Food and Shelter Program. A local board, chaired by the United Way of Southeast Michigan, will divide the allocation between social service organizations, both public and private, to supplement and expand ongoing efforts to provide shelter, food and support services. “The food banks, shelters, and pantries are receiving more and more people who have worked all their lives but now, because of job losses or pay cuts, find themselves in a difficult position and in need of assistance,” said Rep. Levin. “The funding making its way to our local community organizations is important for local families.” The Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP) was created in 1983 to supplement the work of public and private local social service organizations. Recipient organizations, which are chosen by an EFSP Local Board, can be use funding for mass shelter, mass feeding, food distribution through food pantries and food banks, one-month utility payments to prevent cut-offs, and one-month rent/mortgage assistance to prevent eviction. The United Way for Southeastern Michigan is accepting grant applications on behalf of the Macomb EFSP Local Board and Oakland EFSP Local Board. An applying organization must be a nonprofit or government agency, have the capacity to provide emergency food and/or shelter services, have at least one full time paid staff person, and must use the funding to supplement and extend existing resources and not to substitute or reimburse ongoing programs and services. Applications are due January 13th. For more information contact Michelle Howard at United Way by calling 313.226.9353 or via email at: Michelle.Howard@liveunitedSEM.org (####)
12.19.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.) and Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI12) issued the following statement today regarding the auto industry bridge loans announced by President Bush this morning: The action to provide emergency loans to the U.S. auto industry announced this morning by the President will provide a bridge to the future for the industry and for millions of working families in communities across America. It gives the industry breathing room to cope with the global financial crisis and take the restructuring steps essential to return to economic health. It also avoids an unnecessary blow to our reeling economy and provides a shot in the arm to our nation’s manufacturing sector. The current crisis facing our domestic auto industry was brought on by factors beyond its control. Automakers around the world are facing similar challenges, and from Asia to Europe to Latin America, foreign governments have stepped up to keep their automakers from failing. Today’s action appropriately rejects the notion of bankruptcy. In addition to the specific actions listed under the restructuring plan, the White House documents list additional subjects which the companies are to use their best efforts to achieve. The President was wise to set those restructuring targets as non-binding goals which are subject to negotiations and which the negotiators can deviate from. The daunting challenge of restructuring the U.S. auto industry to achieve a plan for financial viability will require sacrifices by all of the stakeholders in this process in the next three months. Now it is up to President-elect Obama to carry forward the plans for the support and recovery of our domestic auto industry. (####)
12.12.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin (D-MI) released the following statement today: “The statement by the Treasury Department that it stands ready to prevent an imminent failure of the domestic auto industry is a welcome response to what, if not addressed, is truly a crisis of days facing the entire automotive industry. “The legislation worked out between the White House and Congressional leaders that passed the House guaranteed that all of the market participants would have to sit down and be part of further restructuring and contained tough oversight provisions including the ability of the “czar” to call the loan. Instead of helping pass this consensus legislation, it is unfortunate that Senate Republicans, who often want to minimize government intervention, insisted that any agreement go beyond this consensus and dictate to the UAW specific concessions by a certain date beyond those contained in contracts with the Big Three. “The legislation approved by the House and supported by the White House is the right framework for moving forward with the restructuring that all stakeholders must participate in. What is essential today is that the White House act.” (####)
12.10.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today approved legislation to support the American auto industry and protect millions of auto-related jobs nationwide. H.R. 7321, the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act, passed by a vote of 237-170. Following the bill’s passage, Congressman Sander Levin (D-MI) released the following statement: “This legislation provides the domestic auto industry with a critical bridge to the future. It contains rigorous oversight as the domestic auto industry continues the vital task of restructuring. Other countries are moving to support their domestic auto industries and it is vital the United States do the same. The House has voted to help sustain the backbone of this country’s manufacturing base with millions of jobs at stake across all 50 states. Now the Senate must act and avoid devastation to an economy already in recession." (####)
12.05.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement on the announcement by the Bureau of Labor Statistics that the United States lost 533,000 jobs during November, the largest one month decline since 1974. “It is clear from this jobs report that the recession is getting deeper and economic times for American families are very difficult,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Congress and the Administration must not risk the catastrophic consequences of the failure of a domestic automaker.” The Economic Policy Institute released a new report estimating that the bankruptcy of one or more of the U.S. automakers could eliminate up to 3.3 million U.S. jobs within the next year. These job loss estimates are across all 50 states and include 192,800 direct jobs, 1,028,500 indirect jobs and 2,088,400 re-spending jobs. The full report may be found at https://www.epi.org/content.cfm/bp227 “The House Financial Services Committee is today giving the auto industry a full and positive hearing,” said Rep. Levin. “Members are increasingly speaking out in favor of action. The Administration must join with Congress in taking action, not risking millions of additional jobs loss to an already extremely fragile economy as evidenced by the half a million jobs lost in just one month.” Background on the Jobs Report Jobs lost nationally in November: 533,000. This is the largest one-month decline since December 1974. The revised job losses for September and October are also significantly higher than previously reported. For September, the original figure was 159,000. The revised figure is 403,000 jobs lost in September. For October, the original figure was 240,000; the revised total is 320,000 jobs lost during October. This means that since the start of the current recession, the U.S. has shed 1.9 million jobs. 1.3 million of those have been lost in the last 4 months alone. National unemployment rate for November: 6.7%. Up from 6.5% in October. Since the start of the current recession, announced this week to have begun in December 2007, the unemployment rate has risen 1.7%. The current unemployment rate is the highest in 15 years. Manufacturing jobs lost in November: 85,000. Since August, 258,000 manufacturing jobs have been lost. Since the start of the recession in December 2007, 604,000 manufacturing jobs have been lost. (####)
12.02.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding the business plans submitted by Ford, G.M. and Chrysler in their response to the path outlined by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to support the request for a federal bridge loan to weather the current recession and increase global competitiveness in the years ahead. “The Big 3 domestic automakers are presenting strong plans detailing their short-term needs to weather this global financial crisis. Each has set forth long-term plans for restructuring including further cost-cutting and utilization and development of vital advanced technologies. “General Motors’ plan underscores the severity of the damage done by the financial crisis to U.S. auto sales and to its liquidity position. It has presented a difficult, but realistic estimate of its short-term financing needs to weather this economic downturn and undertake an aggressive restructuring of a company that remains the backbone of American manufacturing, producing fully 1 in 5 cars sold in the United States. “General Motors has committed itself to a sweeping restructuring of its business that puts all issues on the table, including brand consolidation, reductions in dealer locations and other cost reductions. Importantly, they detail an accelerated investment in the fuel efficient and advanced technology vehicles of the future, including launching the groundbreaking electric Chevrolet Volt in 2010. “Ford has demonstrated its commitment to a forward-looking product mix that will meet a permanent shift in consumer demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, improve fuel economy across all vehicle platforms and build on its leadership in hybrid technology by doubling the volume of Hybrids by 2009. “Chrysler has laid out its short-term liquidity challenges in great detail and clearly articulated why bankruptcy is simply not a workable option for an automaker. Chrysler has indicated its restructuring needs in the mid-term and its commitment to develop new advanced technology vehicles including offerings such as the ENVI electric drive vehicles. “Each CEO is leading by example by taking a $1 salary, selling corporate jets and committing to all other executive compensation and bonus restrictions, as well as offering equity stakes as required by Congress. The Big 3 and their management have gone above and beyond any requirements made of Wall Street to date. “The combination of a domestic recession and a global financial credit crisis is crippling our manufacturing base. We must act to preserve the millions of jobs at stake, to maintain the U.S. advantage in advanced technologies and to protect the synergies between the auto industry and national security. Congress will now carry out its responsibilities through hearings and other consultations. It is also vital that the Administration be actively involved.” (####)
11.21.2008	(Washington D.C.)- President Bush today signed a much-needed extension of unemployment benefits to provide assistance to the long-term unemployed struggling to find work in a weakening job market. The extension, passed by the House last month and the Senate yesterday, provides a 7-week extension of benefits nationwide and an additional 13-week (for a total 20-week) extension in high unemployment states like Michigan beyond a state’s traditional unemployment program “With long-term unemployment at its highest level in twenty-five years, this extension is essential during these difficult economic times,” said Rep. Levin. “If Congress had not acted, 68,000 Michigan residents would have exhausted their benefits by the end of this year. These Michiganders are looking hard for a new job but simply cannot find one in this economy and we must provide a bridge to better times.” The legislation enacted today extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program Congress passed earlier this year. The original EUC program provided a 13-week extension for unemployed Americans. As of the end of October, 53,000 Michigan residents had exhausted their regular and extended benefits, making them eligible for the extension passed today. 68,000 Michiganders and 1.1 million Americans would have exhausted benefits by the end of 2008 without today’s extension. (####)
11.20.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement on the status of efforts to secure a bridge loan for the domestic auto industry. “The opportunity must be seized to turn an unfortunate delay into an accelerated effort on the reasons a government bridge loan must be provided in order for the domestic auto industry to weather this severe global financial crisis. “The bi-partisan agreement in the Senate requires a plan from the companies, stringent oversight and taxpayer provisions from the House bill and repayment of the loan program designed to re-tool plants for advanced technology cars. “Today there was a clear reiteration by House and Senate leaders that a strong domestic auto industry is vital to America’s economic and national security in a global economy undergoing major technological change. They made it clear they expect Congress to act in December.” (####)
11.19.2008	(Washington D.C.)- In testimony before the House Financial Services Committee today, Congressman Sander Levin emphasized the urgent need to provide bridge loans to American automakers to protect millions of U.S. jobs and allow the companies to continue the historic restructuring they have been undergoing in recent years. Congressman Levin told the committee that the current financial crisis threatens the domestic auto industry, the backbone of the U.S. manufacturing and industrial base. To view Rep. Levin testifying before the Committee, click here. Below are Rep. Levin’s written remarks, as entered into the Committee record: Chairman Frank, Ranking Member Bachus and Members of the Committee, thank you for this hearing today about the current financial crisis and the damage it is doing to the backbone of our manufacturing and industrial base. The rippling effect of the Lehman failure on the financial system would pale in comparison to the economic consequences that would result from the demise of even one of our domestic automakers. The supply and dealer chains are all economically interconnected. General Motors, Ford and Chrysler account for roughly 70 percent of U.S. auto production and support five million jobs across all 50 states. The U.S. auto industry represents almost four percent of U.S. gross domestic product and 20% of all U.S. retail sales. According to the Center for Automotive Research (CAR), should one or more of the Big 3 fail in 2009, 2.5 million jobs in the U.S. economy could be lost in that first year. In economic terms, CAR estimates a 50 percent cut in Big 3 U.S. operations would reduce personal income by $275.7 billion over the course of three years and result in a total government tax loss of at least $108 billion over three years. The domestic automobile industry is absolutely nothing like the one I worked in as a young student. It is nothing like the one of even ten years ago. It must be in a far different place five or ten years from not than it is today. To have a chance to get there, there is an urgent need for action this week, so it is vital to dispel the myths and misconceptions that are clouding that need and to separate fact from fiction. The Companies are Cutting Costs and Restructuring These last years have seen the domestic automakers and their workers pursue an unprecedented restructuring and cost-cutting. In the last three years, General Motors has reduced structural costs in North America by 23% or $9 billion, reduced production capacity by 24% or 1.3 million units, and has reduced its headcount by 84,000 workers, a 47% reduction. Since becoming a privately held company, Chrysler has discontinued four vehicle models, reduced production capacity by 30% or 1.2 million vehicles annually, reduced fixed costs by $2.2 billion and furloughed 32,000 employees. In the last three years, Ford has closed 17 plants in North America, reduced its workforce by 51,000 employees and cut costs by $5 billion. The Companies Are Producing High Quality, Fuel Efficient and Advanced Technology Vehicles Ford has tied Toyota and Honda in quality according to Consumer Reports GM had more segment leaders in quality than Toyota or Honda according to J.D. Power Chrysler has seen warranty claims drop 29% and offers lifetime powertrain warranties GM offers 20 models that get 30 MPG, twice their nearest competitor GM’s Chevy Volt is a game-changing pure electric and zero emissions vehicle Chrysler has unveiled three advanced technology electric-drive vehicles for 2010 Ford will double its hybrid models and its hybrid production capacity in the next year. Even as the Big Three work to bring the vehicles of tomorrow to the market, they are aggressively boosting the fuel economy and lowering the emissions of current models. Ford’s F –Series Super Duty truck employs an advanced clean diesel engine that runs on ultra-low sulfur fuel that dramatically lowers emissions and improves fuel economy. All three companies are developing advanced engine technologies for consumers that will squeeze more miles per gallon of gas and reduce emissions. Workers Have Made Concessions Recent UAW contract negotiations have resulted in wage and benefit cuts and the transfer of health care obligations from the companies to an independent fund. Specifically, since 2005, these negotiations have resulted in: A 50% wage reduction for new workers, to $14 or $15 per hour in addition to wage reductions for current employees No guaranteed retiree health care or defined benefit pensions for new workers A court-approved transfer of existing retiree health benefits to an independent VEBA managed by the UAW A 50% reduction of the Big Three’s retiree health care liabilities Even Toyota thinks their cost advantage could disappear by 2011. "I think [the Detroit automakers] could easily equal us or even exceed us in terms of having lower labor costs," says Pete Gritton, human resources chief for Toyota in North America. Bankruptcy is Not an Option Those who counsel inaction point to past mistakes by the Big Three and claim that bankruptcy is a better option. Studies are clear that consumers will not buy cars (a family’s second largest purchase) from a bankrupt company. Chapter 11 would likely lead directly to Chapter 7 liquidation and the profoundly negative impact on our economy that would come with it. We are here Today because the Progress of Recent Years and Programs for the Future have been Overtaken by the Current Global Financial Crisis This Committee knows better than any of us the deep financial crisis we are facing and the economic distress that is felt throughout our nation. We are spending a trillion dollars to try to stabilize our financial system. The mortgage industry is in shambles. So is it any wonder that the industry that represents the second largest purchase a family makes is the next in line to be devastated by this global financial crisis? Consumers can’t get credit to purchase vehicles. Dealers can’t get credit to move cars through their lots, and the car companies can’t access the private credit market. U.S. auto sales in the month of October plummeted 23.4% from 2007 to an annualized rate of 10.5 million units. The significant slowdown in sales is industry-wide. For example, Toyota sales were down 23%, Honda was down 25% and Nissan was down 33% compared to October 2007. This current problem is not unique to the U.S. Governments throughout Europe are faced with the same crisis in their automotive sectors and they are moving to provide loans during this global financial crisis. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that the European Union is crafting a plan to lend European automakers “tens of billions of dollars.” We Would Lose More than the Production of Cars and Automotive Supplies Maintaining a domestic technological and industrial capacity is not only vital for our economic prosperity, but also for our national security. As retired general and former NATO Supreme Allied Commander Wesley Clark pointed out this week in the New York Times, “What’s Good for GM is Good for the Army.” General Clark notes that hundreds of lives have been saved in Iraq because the Army has been able to quickly procure more than a thousand mine-resistant vehicles. Further, the loss of even one of the auto companies would have a huge impact on the supplier base that serves both the commercial and military vehicle markets, driving up costs for the Army and reducing the availability of critical vehicle components. My congressional district is home to the National Automotive Center (NAC) located at the Tank Automotive and Armaments Command. The NAC serves as a catalyst to leverage government, industry and academia R&D investment with the goal of incorporating commercial technology into Army vehicles. The most recent DoD Base Closure Report sums up the relationship between the military and the auto industry quite well. The reports states: “the synergies from having a critical mass located in southeast Michigan and being able to leverage the world’s capital for automotive ground vehicle research and development and acquisitions will ensure the Department of Defense is prepared to meet its future demands.” I would point out that the Detroit Arsenal is located next door to the GM Technical Center and that these synergies assume the continued existence of a healthy auto industry. The engineers at TARDEC and the National Automotive Center are working with the auto industry on critical research and development to reduce fuel consumption in the Army’s ground vehicles through electric propulsion and fuel cells, to create a mobile electrical grid, and to develop the use of advanced batteries, artificial intelligence and nanotechnology for the next generation of military vehicles. The partnership between industry and the military has put us in the forefront of research and development of future military vehicles that are substantially lighter, more fuel efficient, and more lethal than current vehicles. A Bridge to the Future The Big Three don’t need a bailout; they need a bridge loan so they can weather this global financial crisis and accelerate implementation of plans for restructuring and technological advancements. The draft legislation prepared by Chairman Frank is hardly a handout. It contains tough taxpayer protections and oversight to ensure that the federal government is repaid and that the auto industry completes the restructuring that is already underway. It places limits on executive compensation beyond those in Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA), bans dividends, provides for the Treasury to take warrants equal to 20% of the loan, and distributes loan proceeds gradually as the companies need them to ensure that the funds are also used to build the long term health of the industry. The Backbone of Our Manufacturing Base I come from Michigan. My brother, Carl, and I like to say we have the auto industry in our blood. But this is not a Michigan problem, this is a national, indeed, an international problem. I hope today the Members of this Committee and of the Congress will listen anew to each of the CEOS and the President of the UAW and ask tough questions. We are not afraid of the facts, and I would not be here today if I did not think that these companies and their workers represented the future of automobiles, advanced technology and energy independence. But they have to be able to survive in order to thrive. To throw the bankruptcy of one or more of the Big 3 on top of a once-in-century financial crisis would be a terrible, potentially catastrophic blow to the U.S. economy. President-elect Barack Obama called the domestic auto industry the “backbone of American manufacturing” and President Bush's chief spokeswoman said the administration “does not want U.S. automakers to fail” and “the auto industry is an important part of our manufacturing base, and we want the industry to succeed and compete in the global economy.” The Congress must find common ground this week to provide the domestic automotive industry a bridge to the future. Thank you for your attention, and thank you Chairman Frank for all the work you and your staff have put into this urgent effort. (####)
11.18.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The Congressional-Executive Commission on China adopted its 2008 Annual Report on October 31 by a vote of 22 to 1. The 23-member Commission was created by Congress in 2000 to monitor human rights and the development of the rule of law in China. The full text of this year’s report is available at www.cecc.gov, along with a PDF containing case records of 1,088 political prisoners currently detained or imprisoned in China. “The findings of this year’s Annual Report prompt us to consider not simply what the Chinese government and Communist Party may do in the months and years ahead, but what we must do differently in managing our relationship with China,” said Representative Sander Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the Commission in a joint statement with Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Co-Chairman of the Commission. “In spite of what the Chinese government has written into its laws and regulations, China’s leaders in practice have failed to abide by their commitments, including commitments to WTO norms and other international economic norms, to worker rights, and to the free flow of information,” Levin and Dorgan said. “China’s rapid production of new legislation by itself is not a sign of progress...China’s repeated failure to live up to its international commitments has seriously damaged its credibility.” The Report finds that “the Chinese government’s and Communist Party’s increasing reliance on emergency measures as instruments of social control over the last year has underscored the downside risk of insufficient or ineffective rule of law reforms,” and that “the Chinese government’s and Communist Party’s continuing crackdown on China’s ethnic minority citizens, ongoing manipulation of the media, and heightened repression of rights defenders reveal a level of state control over society that is incompatible with the development of the rule of law.” “China repeatedly has failed to abide by its commitments to internationally recognized standards,” Levin said. “It is vital that there be continuing assessment of China’s commitments to individual human rights, including worker rights, and the safeguards of the rule of law. This is not a matter of one country meddling in the affairs of another. Other nations, including ours, have both the responsibility and a legitimate interest in ensuring compliance with international commitments.” The Commission consists of nine members of the House of Representatives, nine Senators and five senior Administration officials appointed by the President. The Commission’s Annual Report is among the most comprehensive, public examinations of the state of human rights and the rule of law in China produced by the US government. (####)
11.10.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The Michigan Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson urging that he use authority granted under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA) or other statutes to provide emergency assistance to the domestic automobile industry. Members of the Michigan delegation released the following statements regarding the letter: “The struggles currently facing the auto industry threaten the economic well being of our entire nation, and they require immediate government support,” said Senator Levin. “I am hopeful that the Bush administration understands the urgency and gravity of providing fast, effective support to the auto companies. Providing this assistance through the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act is the best way to achieve that goal.” “The domestic auto industry built the middle-class of our country and without a thriving manufacturing sector, our economy simply cannot grow,” said Senator Stabenow. “Our automakers are racing to produce the next generation of vehicles here at home, but in order to reach those goals, and protect jobs here at home, they need our support. Providing capital in the domestic auto industry is a crucial step in supporting the industry and supporting the middle-class.” “Americans made it clear at the voting booth last week that they believe it is time for government to be part of the solution, not part of the problem,” said Rep. Dingell. “U.S. automakers are on the verge of producing new high-quality, energy-efficient vehicles that consumers want and will transform the marketplace. This is the time to invest in companies wanting to create new green jobs here in the U.S., but we must protect the millions of jobs at risk right now. We cannot simply let these jobs and these companies disappear because we will never be able to replace them.” “Our nation’s leaders must not turn a deaf ear toward helping the nation’s automakers, especially as at least one out of every 10 jobs across America is auto-related,” said Rep. Fred Upton, co-chair of the Congressional Auto Caucus. “The health of our nation’s economy hangs in the balance - we can either stand by and do nothing, watching tens of thousands of jobs in Michigan and Middle America evaporate, or we can meet our challenges head on, proudly protecting America’s middle class workers and putting us back on the road to economic recovery.” “The time for action is now,” said Rep. Levin. “The auto companies need a bridge loan to weather the current financial storm and to continue down the path of building the cars of the future.” “The jobs of millions of middle class Americans depend on a vibrant domestic auto industry,” said Rep. Stupak. “As we hear today of plans for a $150 billion bailout of AIG, it is unconscionable to deny the domestic auto makers loan assistance as they struggle to weather the current credit crisis. In the final days of this administration, Secretary Paulson and President Bush have an opportunity to prevent a devastating blow to our economy and the loss of millions of jobs by making a critical investment in an industry that has helped define our nation.” “When Wall Street was in trouble the administration acted with lightning speed to provide relief,” said Rep. Miller. “Now our industry needs help and the administration has been slow to act. It is long past time that the administration recognizes the threat to our economic security and national security posed by the precarious financial situation of our domestic automakers and take appropriate action authorized by law. I am proud to continue this bi-partisan effort with my Michigan colleagues which is guided by our common goal of protecting jobs and helping our automakers to reach a brighter future.” The text of the letter as well as a list of signers is below. November 10, 2008 The Honorable Henry PaulsonU.S. Department of the Treasury1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Paulson: We are writing to urge you in the strongest possible terms to use your authority under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA) or other statutes to immediately address a significant and systemic threat to the U.S. economy and provide emergency assistance to the domestic automobile industry. The U.S. auto industry represents almost four percent of U.S. gross domestic product and represents ten percent of U.S. industrial production by value. One out of every 10 U.S. jobs is auto-related. General Motors, Ford and Chrysler account for roughly 70 percent of U.S. auto production and are estimated to support around five million jobs across all 50 states. According to a report released last week by the Center for Automotive Research, the failure of even one US automaker would mean the loss of millions of jobs and cost our economy hundreds of billions of dollars. Inaction is not an option These last years have seen the domestic automakers pursue an unprecedented restructuring that has put them in a very competitive position with respect to product quality (Ford has tied Toyota and Honda in quality according to Consumer Reports), fuel efficiency (GM offers 17 models achieving 30 MPG or better – twice the nearest competitor), and advanced technology vehicles (Chrysler has announced the launch of electric vehicles beginning in 2010 and all three companies have extensive hybrid offerings). In addition, the three domestic automakers spend a combined $12 billion annually on research and development. This R&D capacity is a national asset that would be put at risk if we do not restore the health of our auto industry. This vital role that the domestic auto industry plays in our economy is broadly recognized. Congressional Leaders in both the House and Senate have met with representatives of the industry and its workers at the most senior level and have expressed to you that “A healthy automobile manufacturing sector is essential to the restoration of financial market stability, the overall health of our economy, and the livelihood of the automobile sector's workforce.”On Friday, President-elect Obama said, “The auto industry is the backbone of American manufacturing and a critical part of our attempt to reduce our dependence on foreign oil… I have made it a high priority for my transition team to work on additional policy options to help the auto industry adjust, weather the financial crisis, and succeed in producing fuel-efficient cars here in the United States of America… I've asked my team to explore what we can do under current law and whether additional legislation will be needed for this purpose.”As you know, both General Motors and Ford released 3rd Quarter earnings last week that make clear the severity of the strain the auto industry is experiencing. It is our view that providing emergency assistance to this uniquely important industry, which is struggling to meet the challenge of a severe financial crisis that has spread far beyond Wall Street, is consistent with the authority granted to you by EESA, and indeed well within the broad mandate of the Treasury Department to promote stable economic growth. Given the urgency of the situation, we ask that you work with us in the coming days to provide immediate loan support to the domestic auto industry, including, if necessary, amending EESA. Sincerely, Senator Carl Levin Senator Debbie StabenowRep. John Dingell Rep. Fred UptonRep. Sander LevinRep. Dave CampRep. John ConyersRep. Dale KildeeRep. Vern EhlersRep. Peter HoekstraRep. Joe KnollenbergRep. Bart StupakRep. Carolyn C. KilpatrickRep. Mike RogersRep. Thaddeus McCotterRep. Candice MillerRep. Tim Walberg (####)
11.10.2008	(Washington D.C.)- This afternoon Rep. Levin will be joining Mayor Brenda Lawrence, City Librarian Dave Ewick, and Commission Chairman Dan Brightwell in an event honoring the work of the Southfield Veterans Commission in conjunction with the Veterans History Project. The Veterans History Project collects and preserves the remembrances of American war veterans as well as the civilian workers who supported them. The collections of first-hand accounts are archived in the Library of Congress for use by researchers and to serve as an inspiration for generations to come. The Southfield Veterans Commission has collected over 70 histories from local veterans under the leadership of Dan Brightwell. “The work of the Southfield Veterans Commission is incredibly important. It helps ensure that future generations will understand the tremendous sacrifice of their fathers and mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers, great-grandparents, and all that have come before them,” said Rep Levin. “I want to encourage all veterans to take the time to record a history. Even basic details of every day life in the armed services will provide insight to our grandchildren. No history is insignificant.” The event will be held at the Southfield Library, 26300 Evergreen Road, at 2pm. A copy of the congressional record statement submitted by Rep. Levin to honor the Southfield Veterans Commission is below. Congress created the Veterans History Project in 2000. Anyone can submit histories so long as they follow guidelines set by the Library of Congress. For more information or to obtain a recording field kit please contact Alan Mlynek in Rep. Levin’s office at (202) 225-4961 or alan.mlynek@mail.house.gov. **Inserted into Congressional Record*** HON. SANDER M. LEVIN OF MICHIGAN IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2008 Mr. LEVIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Southfield Veterans Commission and Southfield Public Library for their outstanding participation in the Veterans History Project of the Library of Congress. The Library of Congress Veterans History Project collects and archives the personal recollections of U.S. wartime veterans, to honor their service and to share their stories with current and future generations. The Southfield Veterans Commission and Southfield Public Library have worked together to ensure that veterans from the city of Southfield and surrounding communities have their stories included in and honored by the project. Their efforts have become a model for other organizations and communities. Under the leadership of chairman Dan Brightwell, the commission has collected the histories of over 70 local veterans. Each week, members of the commission volunteer their own time and skills to interview and record the stories of each veteran and prepare the histories to be archived at the Library of Congress. These interviews have preserved extraordinary stories of individual service and important moments in our Nation's history. They include the first-hand accounts of a young man at Pearl Harbor on the morning of December 7, 1941; a 21-year-old Army nurse lieutenant treating the wounded on Fiji islands; a Marine fighting on the island of Pelilu and Guadalcanal; a Tuskegee Airman shot down over Germany and captured as a prisoner of war; a 19-year-old Army private storming Normandy beach, and veterans from the most horrific battles of the Vietnam conflict. The Southfield Public Library was named as a Partner Archive to serve as a local repository for Veterans History Project interviews. The library provides space each week for the collection of veterans' histories and has created an online archive where residents can easily view and enjoy local veterans' stories. This Veterans Day, November 11, 2008, I am proud to recognize the Southfield Veterans Commission, the Southfield Public Library, and the local veterans who have contributed their stories to the Veterans History Project at a special event, ``Honoring Southfield's Veterans,'' at the Southfield Public Library. This special celebration brings together the Southfield community to honor local veterans for their service to their fellow citizens and country and the work of the local volunteers to preserve their stories so that future generations can learn from their service and sacrifice. (####)
11.06.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Chairman John Dingell and Representative Sander Levin issued the following statement after the meeting of U.S. House Leadership with top executives from Ford, General Motors, Chrysler and the President of the United Auto Workers. “We had a very constructive discussion with Congressional leaders about the importance of the auto industry to the overall national economy, and the importance of taking steps to ensure the stability of this sector during the current financial and credit crisis. “The U.S. auto industry represents almost 4% of U.S. gross domestic product and represents 10% of U.S. industrial production by value. One out of every 10 U.S. jobs is auto-related and GM, Ford and Chrysler account for roughly 70 percent of U.S. auto production and are estimated to support around five million jobs across all 50 states. According to a report released this week by the Center for Automotive Research, the failure of even one US automaker would mean the loss of millions of jobs and cost our economy hundreds of billions of dollars. Inaction is not an option. “A response to this crisis cannot wait. It is important that the Bush Administration join the Congress in supporting the automotive sector. It has the authority under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act or through the Federal Reserve or by working with Congress to allow the auto companies to weather the current financial storm and to continue down the path of building the cars of the future and ending our dependence on foreign oil. (####)
10.03.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Responding to a week of nearly unprecedented turmoil in the financial markets, the House of Representatives passed legislation today to shore up the financial system and maintain access to credit markets for consumers and businesses. It was passed by a vote of 263-171. “The problems in the credit markets threaten the entire economy. Since Monday, we have seen the largest one-day decline in the stock market in history and credit has contracted to the point that even credit-worthy companies are having difficulty accessing capital. Car and education loans are drying up. Inaction is not an option, if we do nothing, it won’t just mainly be Wall Street employees that lose their jobs, but more workers in Michigan and around the country,” said Rep. Levin. “Congress must move to crack down on the abuses and repeal the misguided, de-regulatory policies that caused this mess, but let’s not do further harm to Americans whose jobs and personal finances are at risk.” The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act authorizes up to $700 billion, to be released in installments, for the Treasury Department to establish a program to buy or insure troubled mortgage-related assets and other instruments whose falling values have threatened our financial system. The legislation is considerably different than the plan originally proposed by the Bush Administration. It includes strong independent oversight, transparency, and accountability requirements, limits on excessive compensation for CEOs and executives of participating financial institutions, and requirements that taxpayers will share in any recovery at participating firms. To help keep more families in their homes, the bill substantially expands eligibility for mortgage refinancing under the Federal Housing Administration’s new Hope for Homeowners program. As the owner with a stake in hundreds of thousands of mortgages, the government would be able to work more directly with loan servicers to make problem loans more affordable, which could include reducing principal or interest rates, or lengthening the time to pay back the mortgage. The bill requires the Treasury, FHA, the Federal Reserve and other agencies to work together on opportunities to increase loan modifications for at-risk mortgages. “We must do much more to strengthen our economy and support families during these difficult economic times,” said Rep. Levin. “The House voted overwhelmingly to approve an extension of unemployment benefits today. The Senate and the President must quickly get behind this extension for those unemployed workers and their families who continue to search unsuccessfully for work.” Rep. Levin has repeatedly called for a seven week extension of unemployment benefits nationwide as well as an additional 13 weeks for high unemployment states such as Michigan. Figures were released today that the U.S. lost an additional 159,000 jobs in September, the highest one-month job loss in over five years. The long-term unemployment rose dramatically from 167,000 to two million and now account for 21.1% of all unemployed people. 774,000 people will exhaust the first emergency extension this month alone, 1.1 million before the end of the year, if the legislation is not signed into law. (####)
10.01.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, signed into law on July 30, includes a number of provisions to address the mortgage crisis and help homeowners facing foreclosure. At the heart of the legislation is a program called Hope for Homeowners, which authorizes the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to insure up to $300 billion in refinanced loans. The program brings affordable, sustainable mortgages within reach for qualified homeowners whose lenders are willing to refinance based on the home’s current value. The new program begins October 1, 2008, and will be available for three years. “The housing crisis threatening American families is at the heart of our country’s larger economic problems. We will not be able to get a handle on this crisis unless we find a way to stem the tide of mortgage foreclosures,” said Rep. Levin. “Through this new effort, the federal government is doing its part to encourage lenders to refinance unaffordable loans and keep families in their homes. Now we need home lenders to step up and do their part.” Borrowers seeking to refinance under the Hope for Homeowners program must be owner-occupants who originated their mortgage on or before January 1, 2008. They must have a monthly mortgage payment greater than 30% of total monthly income, and they must demonstrate that the current loan is unaffordable. Borrowers must certify that they have not intentionally missed mortgage payments and did not obtain the existing loan fraudulently. Investors, speculators, or borrowers who own second homes may not participate in the program. Under the program, borrowers would enter a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage backed by the FHA. The maximum amount of the new mortgage would be $550,440, with a loan-to-value ratio of no more than 90%. A new appraisal would be performed by an FHA-approved appraiser. The new mortgage will include no prepayment penalties, but the FHA would receive at least a portion of any profit from reselling the home within five years. Lender participation in the refinancing program is voluntary. The aim of the Hope for Homeowners program is to give lenders an option that is backed by the federal government and makes more sense financially than foreclosure. Many foreclosures have occurred simply because lenders do not have an alternate system for dealing with delinquent borrowers. Hope for Homeowners provides a framework for lenders to deal with mortgages that might be in trouble. To learn more about the Hope for Homeowners program and its qualifications, homeowners may call 1-800-CALL-FHA (225-5342) or visit www.fha.gov. They may also contact the HOPE NOW Alliance at 1-888-995-HOPE or find a local HUD-approved housing counseling agency by calling 1-800-569-4287. Examples of HUD-approved housing counselors in Macomb and Oakland County include: GreenPath888-860-4167 (toll-free)Offices in Roseville, Southfield, and Troy Michigan State University Extension Services586-469-5180Clinton Township Christian Credit Counselors800-557-1985 (toll-free)Southfield Oakland County Housing Counseling888-350-0900 (toll-free)Pontiac (####)
09.30.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced that Michigan has been allocated a total of $263,563,263 under the Neighborhood Stabilization Program to purchase and redevelop foreclosed properties. With foreclosure rates across the state among the nation’s highest, Michigan received the third largest allocation behind Florida and California. “Foreclosures not only affect those who lose their homes, they bring surrounding home values down for everyone and lower revenue for our communities,” said Rep. Levin. “These additional funds will allow our communities to tackle the foreclosure crisis head-on.” Allocations under the Neighborhood Stabilization Program were made to state governments as well as local communities who receive CDBG funds directly. The $263.5 million total includes: - $98.6 million allocated for use statewide - $17.4 million for Oakland County - $9.8 million for Macomb County - $5.8 million for Warren - $3.2 million for Southfield - $2.4 million for Sterling Heights - $2.1 million for Clinton Township These funds may be used to purchase foreclosed homes at a discount for rehabilitation or redevelopment, to demolish or rehabilitate abandoned properties, to offer down payment assistance to low- and moderate-income homebuyers, and to create “land banks” to manage vacant land. The Neighborhood Stabilization Program is a new initiative created by the Housing and Economic Recovery legislation approved by Congress in July. (####)
09.29.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement today after the House failed to approve the Emergency Economic and Stabilization Act of 2008. Mr. Levin voted in favor of the legislation. “Today’s vote must not be the last word. There are times when a nation faces a crisis and the worst alternative is inaction. This is such a time. “Unless we deal with the financial troubles that Wall Street and other financial institutions have helped to create, we will all be hurt by the instability in the entire financial system. Including the millions of Americans struggling to keep a roof over their head, families who need to borrow money to send a child to college and businesses like the auto industry which depend on the availability of affordable loans. “We added to the original Bush Administration proposal important provisions: to help families stay in their homes; to ensure that taxpayers are repaid before shareholders profit from this assistance; to stop high paid executives from receiving excessive compensation or severance packages at taxpayer expense; to ensure tough oversight of the program and release of the funding not at one time, but in stages. When the legislation came to the Floor today it was no blank check. “In the days ahead, in the Presidential and Congressional campaigns, there will be continued debate over what many of us believe have been the misguided policies of the Bush Administration. “In the meantime, the President and Republican leaders in the House need to convince more Republicans to join the necessary bi-partisan effort to address what the Secretary of Treasury and Chairman of the Federal Reserve have vigorously described as a serious crisis that will not be resolved by inaction.” (####)
09.26.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today approved an extension of unemployment benefits as part of a broader economic stimulus package to promote job creation and preservation, invest in infrastructure, and provide economic and energy assistance. The Job Creation and Unemployment Relief Act would provide a 7-week extension of unemployment benefits nationwide, with an additional 13-week extension for high unemployment states like Michigan (for a 20-week extension total). The measure passed by a vote of 264-158. “There are a lot of forgotten people in this country who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own,” said Rep. Levin. “This bill addresses their needs. If we don’t act over one million people will exhaust their benefits by the end of the year.” The U.S. has lost jobs for eight straight months and there are now nearly 10 million Americans out of work. When the first extension passed in June, there were seven states whose unemployment rates exceeded 6%. Now there are thirteen. There are nearly 3 unemployed people for every 1 new job available, making it extremely difficult for the jobless to find work before regular benefits expire. The number of people unemployed for six months or more is well over twice as high as it was during the last recession. “The economy has gotten worse since we passed the extension in June. It is clear that we have to keep the program going,” said Rep. Levin. Federal unemployment trust funds, set aside for benefit extensions in times of economic hardship, have more than enough reserves to cover the cost of a further extension of benefits. Details on H.R. 7110: • Would provide seven additional weeks of extended benefits (in addition to the 13-week benefit extension passed earlier this year, for a total of 20 weeks beyond regular benefits) for those who have exhausted their UI benefits across the country.• Would provide an additional 13 weeks of extended UI benefits (for 33 weeks total beyond regular benefits) for workers in states with high unemployment, defined as 6 percent or higher.• Is estimated to distribute about $6 billion in benefits.• The time frame for this extension would be the same as the first EUC program. If H.R. 6867 is passed, those that originally filed for regular benefits on or after May 7, 2006 and have exhausted their regular benefits and file for an extension by March 28, 2009 can receive a total of 20 weeks of extended benefits. Unemployed individuals in high unemployment states like Michigan that exhaust their regular benefits and their 20-week benefit extension by March 28, 2009 would be eligible to receive an additional 13 weeks of extended benefits, for a total of 33 weeks beyond regular benefits • Nearly 1.1 million Americans, 58,000 in Michigan, will have exhausted their original 13-week benefit extension by the end of 2008. Facts on First Extended Unemployment Compensation Program in Michigan • Since the program began July 22, 84,000 long-term unemployed Michiganders have been helped by a 13-week unemployment insurance extension passed by Congress in June.• The program has so far distributed $164 million dollars to unemployed Michiganders (####)
09.23.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed the Great Lakes Compact, a measure designed to ensure Great Lakes water is not diverted to other regions. The agreement prohibits the bulk diversion of water from the Great Lakes, with very limited exceptions. The Compact further establishes a comprehensive management framework to protect this shared resource and requires Great Lake states to regulate their own large-scale water use. The Compact was approved by a vote of 390-25. “Passage of this legislation today is essential to the health of the Great Lakes. With the approval of the Compact, at long last we will close the door to bulk diversion of Great Lakes water,” said Rep. Levin. “There is no question that we’re in a much stronger position to protect the Great Lakes with the Compact than without it.” The Compact, an agreement among the eight states bordering the Great Lakes, received the approval of the Senate in August and will now be sent to President Bush, who has indicated he will sign it. (####)
09.23.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to curb unfair and deceptive credit card lending practices. Representative Levin is a co-sponsor of the Credit Card Holder’s Bill of Rights Act which was approved by a vote of 312-112. The legislation would put in place protections against arbitrary interest rate increases, due date gimmicks, and misleading terms. “This legislation will level the playing field by putting an end to unfair and abusive credit card practices that outrage so many American families,” said Rep. Levin. “Americans are struggling to make ends meet and they have the right to be able to understand their credit card accounts, control their credit, and manage their debt.” The legislation, which will now be sent to the United States Senate, provides crucial protections by addressing a variety of unfair, but unfortunately common, credit card practices: Ends Unfair, Arbitrary Interest Rate Increases.• Prevents card companies from unfairly increasing interest rates on existing card balances – retroactive increases are permitted only if a cardholder is more than 30 days late, if a pre-agreed promotional rate expires, or if the rate adjusts as part of a variable rate. • Requires card companies to give 45 days notice of all interest rate increases so consumers can pay off their balances and shop for a better deal. Lets Consumers Set Hard Credit Limits, Stops Excessive “Over-the-Limit” Fees.• Requires companies to let consumers set their own fixed credit limit.• Prevents companies from charging “over-the-limit” fees when a cardholder has set a limit, or when a preauthorized credit “hold” pushes a consumer over their limit.• Limits (to 3) the number of over-the-limit fees companies can charge for the same transaction – some issuers now charge virtually unlimited fees for a single limit violation. Ends Unfair Penalties for Cardholders Who Pay on Time.• Ends unfair “double cycle” billing – card companies couldn’t charge interest on debt consumers have already paid on time. • If a cardholder pays on time and in full, the bill prevents card companies from piling additional fees on balances consisting solely of left-over interest. Requires Fair Allocation of Consumer Payments.• Many companies credit payments to a cardholder’s lowest interest rate balances first, making it impossible for the consumer to pay off high-rate debt. The bill bans this practice, generally requiring payments to be allocated proportionally to balances that have different rates. Protects Cardholders from Due Date Gimmicks.• Among other measures, requires card companies to mail billing statements 25 calendar days before the due date (up from the current 14 days), and to credit as “on time” payments made before 5 p.m. local time on the due date. Prevents Companies from Using Misleading Terms and Damaging Consumers’ Credit Ratings.• Establishes standard definitions of terms like “fixed rate” and “prime rate” so companies can’t mislead or deceive consumers in marketing and advertising. • Gives consumers who are pre-approved for a card the right to reject that card prior to activation without negatively affecting their credit scores. Protects Vulnerable Consumers From High-Fee Subprime Credit Cards.• Prohibits issuers of subprime cards (where total yearly fixed fees exceed 25 percent of the credit limit) from charging those fees to the card itself. These cards are generally targeted to low-income consumers with weak credit histories. Bars Issuing Credit Cards to Vulnerable Minors• Prohibits card companies from knowingly issuing cards to individuals under 18 who are not emancipated minors. (####)
09.23.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today approved H.Res.1314, a resolution introduced by Representative Sander Levin to remember the 75th Anniversary of the Ukrainian Famine-Genocide of 1932-1933 and extend the sympathies of the House of Representatives. The resolution was approved by voice vote. “Recognizing this tragedy and remembering its victims is important for all of humanity, including 1.5 million Ukrainian-Americans,” said Levin, who is Co-Chairman of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. “It has special meaning to the people of Ukraine who continue to struggle towards a more free, democratic, open society, and indeed to all of us who value freedom.” During the Famine-Genocide of 1932-33, 7 to 10 million Ukrainians were deliberately and systematically starved to death by the Soviet Union. The Soviet Government introduced unrealistically high quotas on grain and other agricultural products, which were strictly enforced by Red Army troops. “We in the United States must persist in standing with those living under oppressive and tyrannical regimes as they struggle for their freedom. Part of this struggle is to remember the brutal acts of these regimes and their victims. Preventing the recurrence of crimes against humanity such as the Ukrainian Famine-Genocide begins with remembering the tragedies of the past,” said Levin. During the last Congress, Levin led efforts to authorize the Government of Ukraine to establish a memorial in Washington, DC honoring the victims of the Ukrainian Famine-Genocide. The Ukrainian Government and the Ukrainian-American Community are working with the appropriate federal agencies to identify a site for this memorial. (####)
09.23.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to strengthen mental health care and reduce barriers to treatment in the current health care system. H.R. 6983, the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act, was approved by a vote of 376-47. The legislation permanently reauthorizes and expands the Mental Health Parity Act of 1996 to make mental health coverage and substance addiction treatment more accessible and affordable. “Twelve years ago, the Congress and President Clinton came together to pass the Mental Health Parity Act of 1996 to put the country on the road to mental health parity. It was a vital first step. The legislation passed today takes another important step toward genuine mental health parity,” said Rep. Levin. “It is another milestone in the long battle that must be continued until everyone has full access to mental health services in our nation.” Under the current system, a person with health insurance coverage seeking mental health services may have to wait months to get an appointment with a practitioner in his or her insurance plan’s network, or have to pay excessively high out-of-pocket costs for mental health care. This legislation prohibits group health plans with 51 or more members that offer mental health benefits from requiring beneficiaries to pay more out-of-pocket than they would pay for medical and surgical benefits. The bill also requires insurance plans that cover mental health benefits to cover the entire spectrum of disorders so that treatment for conditions like substance abuse will be covered. About one quarter of American adults suffer from a diagnosable mental disorder in a given year. One in seventeen suffers from a serious mental illness that significantly impacts his or her ability to function. However, only 28% of people with diagnosable mental disorders currently receive treatment. This means the majority of those with a diagnosable mental disorder are not receiving treatment. “Fifteen percent of Americans have no health insurance at all. Even Americans who do have health insurance often find themselves unable to receive care because of discriminatory policies in their health plans that require them to pay more and receive less for mental health care than for other services,” said Rep. Levin. “This bill will change that.” The legislation will be sent to the United States Senate which is also actively working on mental health parity legislation. Both chambers hope to get a final bill to President Bush before Congress adjourns. (####)
09.18.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to update the key federal law that helps fund the environmental cleanup of contaminated sediment in Great Lakes Areas of Concern. The bill, H.R. 6460, passed by a vote of 371-20. “A key part of restoring the Great Lakes is cleaning up the environmental damage from decades past in the Great Lakes Areas of Concern,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Five years ago, Congress created the Great Lakes Legacy Act to begin this effort. Today we continue and build on this effort by renewing and strengthening this environmental cleanup program.” Earlier this year, Congressman Levin urged the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to increase funding in the Legacy Act’s reauthorization from $50 million per year to $150 million per year, the amount recommended by the Great Lakes Regional Collaborative. Levin also suggested that the Legacy Act’s scope be expanded. To date, the Legacy Act has focused on funding re-mediating contaminated sediments. While contaminated sediments pose a significant challenge, Rep. Levin urged that Legacy Act funds also be used for habitat restoration work. Both of these recommendations were adopted in the reauthorization approved by the House of Representatives. Discharges of toxic substances into the Great Lakes Basin have been greatly reduced in recent years, but persistent, high concentrations of contaminants remain in the bottom sediments of some of the rivers and harbors that feed into the Lakes. These tributary areas in the Great Lakes basin have been identified and labeled as "Areas of Concern” with 31 of the 43 AOCs located on the U.S. side of the Great Lakes. Through the Great Lakes Legacy Act, an estimated 850,000 cubic yards of contaminated sediment has been removed since 2004. The Legacy Act has completed work on four remediation projects, and more cleanup projects are in the pipeline. The Great Lakes Legacy Act was originally enacted in 2002. If approved by the Senate and signed by the president, H.R. 6460 would reauthorize the Legacy Act for five years. Summary of H.R. 6460 • Reauthorizes the Great Lakes Legacy Act for five years.• Increases the authorized funding from $50 million per year to $150 million per year (experts estimate that investing $150 million per year for ten years should completely clean up all of the contaminated areas in the Great Lakes).• Continues the leveraging requirement of a 35 percent non-federal cost share for remediation activities. • Requires that aquatic habitat remediation be done in conjunction with contamination remediation.• Increases funding for Research and Development from $3 million to $5 million so that new and more effective technologies can be developed and long-term savings can be realized.• Clarifies that potentially responsible parties can participate in the non-federal cost share by making in-kind contributions.• Speeds the process by which contaminated sites are analyzed, ranked, prioritized and ultimately remediated. (####)
09.16.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to lower energy costs for consumers, invest in renewable energy sources, expand domestic energy exploration and create greater energy efficiency and conservation. The Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act, H.R. 6899, was approved by a vote of 236-189. “We need a comprehensive approach that includes the development of additional energy resources,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “This legislation provides consumers with relief in the near-term, along with a balanced, responsible and long-term approach to addressing the challenges of energy security.” Eighty percent of the oil on the outer continental shelf (OCS) is already open for leasing. The Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act will responsibly open up as much as 80 percent of the remainder of the OCS (up to 404 million additional acres). The bill also rolls back tax breaks for major oil companies, currently earning record profits, and requires the companies to pay royalties already owed to taxpayers. This revenue will in turn be used to invest in twenty-first century, renewable energy industries to create millions of American jobs and help end America’s dependence on oil. H.R. 6899 will also help ease fuel prices for consumers this year by responsibly releasing ten percent of the oil available in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, placing more supply on the market. The legislation also provides tax incentives for renewable electricity, energy and fuel, as well as for plug-in hybrid cars and energy efficient homes, buildings and appliances. Over time, these incentives will create jobs and help consumers and businesses save billions of dollars on energy bills. The package also includes provisions authored by Rep. Levin to expand the tax credit available to gas stations that install E85 fuel pumps, and to provide tax incentives for appliance manufacturers to produce more energy efficient products. Cumulatively, consumers will save $33 million per year in utility costs and $360 million over the life of super-efficient appliances. This provision will also create jobs as manufacturers invest in production of these appliances here in the U.S. (####)
09.11.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin supports providing a further extension of unemployment benefits for Americans struggling to find work in the nation’s increasingly difficult job market. H.R. 6867 would provide a 7-week extension of unemployment benefits nationwide, with an additional 13-week extension for high unemployment states like Michigan (for a 20-week extension total). The bill may be included in a larger economic stimulus plan in the coming weeks. “We fought hard to get the program started, and now it is clear it must be extended,” said Rep. Levin. “The number of long-term unemployed is over double what it was in the past recession and economic conditions are worsening. Unemployed individuals and their families need federal support while they continue to look hard for work.”The U.S. has lost jobs for eight straight months and there are now nearly 10 million Americans out of work. There are nearly 3 unemployed people for every 1 new job available, making it extremely difficult for the jobless to find work before regular benefits expire. The number of people unemployed for six months or more is well over twice as high as it was during the last recession. Earlier this year, Congress passed legislation extending benefits, but President Bush, who resisted this effort for months, stripped the bill of a provision providing extra assistance for high unemployment states like Michigan. Federal unemployment trust funds, set aside for benefit extensions in times of economic hardship, have more than enough reserves to cover the cost of a further extension of benefits. Details on H.R. 6867: Would provide seven additional weeks of extended benefits (in addition to the 13-week benefit extension passed earlier this year, for a total of 20 weeks beyond regular benefits) for those who have exhausted their UI benefits across the country. Would provide an additional 13 weeks of extended UI benefits (for 33 weeks total beyond regular benefits) for workers in states with high unemployment, defined as 6 percent or higher. Is estimated to distribute about $6 billion in benefits. The time frame for this extension would be the same as the first EUC program. If H.R. 6867 is passed, those that originally filed for regular benefits on or after May 7, 2006 and have exhausted their regular benefits and file for an extension by March 28, 2009 can receive a total of 20 weeks of extended benefits. Unemployed individuals in high unemployment states like Michigan that exhaust their regular benefits and their 20-week benefit extension by March 28, 2009 would be eligible to receive an additional 13 weeks of extended benefits, for a total of 33 weeks beyond regular benefits Nearly 1.1 million Americans, 58,000 in Michigan, will have exhausted their original 13-week benefit extension by the end of 2008. Please click here to view the text of H.R. 6867. Facts on First Extended Unemployment Compensation Program in Michigan Sine the program began July 22, 84,000 long term unemployed Michiganders have been helped by a 13-week unemployment insurance extension passed by Congress in June. The program has so far distributed $164 million dollars to unemployed Michiganders. (####)
08.01.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. Department of Labor’s monthly jobs report released today showed that the national unemployment rate rose and the economy continued to lose jobs in July, as it has for seven straight months. 51,000 jobs were lost in the past month; nearly half a million jobs have been lost since the beginning of 2008. The unemployment rate rose in July to 5.7%. The number of people looking for work climbed to 8.8 million. Nearly one in five of those looking for work have been jobless for six months or more. Congressman Sander Levin today called for the enactment of a new economic recovery plan, releasing the following statement: “We all know how difficult economic conditions are in Michigan, and signs that the U.S. economy remains weak are increasing every month. Congress must increase efforts to spur economic growth and help families make ends meet. “Earlier this year, the House and Senate approved an economic recovery package that included a tax rebate to provide relief to American families and stimulate growth. In Michigan, rebates were distributed to nearly 4 million households, injecting an estimated $3.5 billion into Michigan’s economy. These rebates have helped families weather the downturn and prevented our economy from declining more sharply. “But now that nearly all of the rebate checks have been distributed, the economy is not fully recovered, job losses continue to mount and families across the nation are still struggling. It is clear that further action is needed to boost our economy. Congress must make enacting a second bipartisan economic recovery plan its top priority. This Package should be comprehensive, and include a further extension of unemployment benefits and low-interest credit for automakers to help them retool manufacturing facilities and create jobs. “Considering that the nation has lost nearly half a million jobs so far this year, a further extension of unemployment benefits should be included in a new recovery plan. Economists widely agree that unemployment benefits are among the most effective and quickest ways to strengthen the economy. Experts testified before Congress that every dollar of extended unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in increased economic activity. Extended benefits help our neighbors who have been laid off through no fault of our own and give a needed jolt to our economy. “Efforts to create jobs must also be central to a new recovery plan. Seventy-four Members of the House, including every member of the Michigan delegation, have urged Congressional leadership to enact an economic recovery package that includes funding for a program to provide low-interest credit for American automakers to retool facilities to build fuel efficient vehicles. This program will create jobs in Michigan and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Many Senators, including Sen. Obama, also strongly support this program. “If we enact an effective economic recovery package that includes a targeted unemployment benefit extension and a boost for domestic manufacturers, we can turn the tide of this economic downturn and start creating jobs rather than losing them month after month.” (####)
07.31.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to help bridge the wide disparity in wages between men and women working in similar jobs. H.R. 1338, the Paycheck Fairness Act, strengthens the landmark Equal Pay Act signed by President Kennedy in 1963 and closes loopholes that have allowed employers to avoid penalty for discriminatory pay. The measure passed by a vote of 247-178. “Wage discrimination is not just a women’s issue, it is a family issue,” said Congressman Sander Levin. “Women in Michigan are paid less than 70 cents for every dollar earned by a man. The cost of this income disparity is often borne not just by an individual, but by all the members of a household who rely on that income. Equal pay is important to ensure not only equality for women, but also to better provide for families who depend on working mothers.” Studies show that, on average, American women earn 77 cents for every dollar earned by a man in a similar position. The wage gap is even wider in Michigan, with women paid only 69.8 cents for every dollar earned by a man. Michigan ranks 47th among all states with regard to pay equity, according to the Institute for Women’s Policy Research. The current pay disparity may cost a woman anywhere from $400,000 to $2 million in lifetime earnings relative to a man performing equivalent work. The Paycheck Fairness Act: • Requires that employers seeking to justify unequal pay bear the burden of proving that any gender disparities are job-related and consistent with a business necessity. • Prohibits employers from retaliating against employees who share salary information with their co-workers.• Puts gender-based discrimination sanctions on equal footing with other forms of wage discrimination – such as race, disability or age – by allowing women to sue for compensatory and punitive damages.• Requires the Department of Labor to enhance outreach and training efforts to work with employers in order to eliminate pay disparities.• Requires the Department of Labor to continue to collect and disseminate wage information based on gender. • Creates a new grant program to help strengthen the negotiation skills of girls and women. (####)
07.30.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Legislation to strengthen market regulation to stop excessive speculation in the energy futures markets from driving up gas prices failed in the House of Representatives today. H.R. 6604, the Commodity Market Transparency and Accountability Act, would have closed loopholes that allow speculators to escape regulatory rules, increase market transparency and increase regulatory staff to fight market manipulation and fraud. The bill was supported by a voted of 276-151, but did not pass as it was taken up under a procedure requiring 2/3 support for passage. A majority of Republicans voted to block the measure, just as they did last week when they opposed a measure to lower gas prices by releasing 70 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. “The impact of soaring oil costs on Michigan families is painfully clear,” said Rep. Levin. “Many experts agree that speculators are driving up the price of oil, possibly by $35 per barrel or more. The bill on the floor today called for common sense measures to stop speculators from artificially inflating oil prices, and I am disappointed the legislation did not pass.” Speculators buy and sell futures contracts that require delivery of a commodity at a specified price on a specified future date. Rather than taking delivery of an actual commodity, traders often simply exchange the cash difference between the price of the commodity previously agreed to in the contract and the current price. Many oil speculators are betting that price of oil will increase, and experts say their trading is driving up the price in the market. Before 2000, an estimated 70 percent of the energy futures market trades were made by energy producing and using industries—only 30 percent by financial traders and speculators. Today, those numbers are reversed—and trading volume has increased six-fold. Since 2003, commodity index speculation has increased 1900 percent, from an estimated $13 billion to $260 billion invested. The Commodity Market Transparency and Accountability Act would have: •Further closed the “Swaps Loophole” (authored by Senator Phil Gramm, former chairman of Senator McCain’s presidential campaign) which allows speculators to avoid regulation by trading in unregulated, “over-the-counter” markets; •Closed the “London Loophole” so that speculators would no longer be able to avoid U.S. limits on speculation that apply to U.S. exchanges by routing their trades through the London or other foreign exchanges; •Imposed limits on the trading of energy futures contracts by speculators; •Required the Commodity Future Trading Commission (CFTC) to obtain and publish better data on speculative trading in the futures market; and •Required a minimum of 100 full-time CFTC employees to strengthen rule enforcement, prevent market manipulation and prosecute fraud. Despite record trading volume in the futures markets, CFTC staffing is at its lowest level in over three decades. (####)
07.30.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed the most expansive overhaul of U.S. product safety rules in decades to bolster consumer protections from unsafe products. The legislation, H.R. 4040, imposes sweeping new rules to make children’s toys and other products safer, increases penalties for rule violators, and strengthens the enforcement ability of the Consumer Product Safety Commission by providing the Commission more resources while cracking down on potential conflicts of interests that have tainted the organization recently. The bill passed with near unanimous support, 424-1. “Recently we have seen a multitude of product recalls involving a wide range of imported products, from dangerous toys and baby rattles to tainted toothpastes and medicines. The excessive number of faulty or toxic products entering our country is unacceptable,” said Congressman Sander Levin. “Parents need to know that the products they buy for their children are safe. The overhaul of federal safety standards approved today provides strong consumer protection to better ensure toys and other products are safe for consumers.” Consumers Union, publisher of Consumer Reports, dubbed 2007 “The Year of the Recall” after 45 million toys and other children’s products were recalled because of high levels of lead paint and other dangers. In some cases these products led to injury or death. In the first half of this year, recalls of toys and other children’s products are even higher than in the same period last year, up 29 percent. H.R. 4040: • Effectively bans lead in products intended for children under 12 years of age;• Mandates third party testing of toys and other children’s products before they are sold;• Requires mandatory safety standards for other children’s products such as cribs and strollers;• Prohibits the use of dangerous phthalates (a plastics softener found in many children’s products) in toys and child care articles;• Increases civil penalties for rule violators; • Establishes a public database where consumers can report and learn about dangerous products; and• Provides state attorney generals with the authority to enforce product safety laws. The legislation also responds to recent reports of potential conflicts of interest at the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). The bill bans industry-sponsored travel by CPSC Commissioners and staff and includes other provisions that will help ensure the CPSC has the resources and authority to protect American consumers. The CPSC workforce has been slashed in half over past decades. The legislation approved today will authorize significant budget increases, and provide expedited rulemaking. To get information on recent product recalls, report unsafe products and sign up for email announcements on unsafe products, parents can visit www.cpsc.gov. (####)
07.28.2008	(Washington D.C.)- A bipartisan coalition of over 70 U.S. House Members have sent a letter to House leadership urging funding be provided for a program to help American auto manufacturers build advanced technology vehicles. The lawmakers are requesting $3.75 billion to activate the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program, which was authorized but not funded in the Energy Independence and Security Act last year. This amount would fully fund the program, providing up to $25 billion in low-interest credit to U.S. automakers and parts suppliers to retool manufacturing facilities to build fuel saving vehicles such as plug-in hybrids and electric vehicles and their key components. Lawmakers are urging House leadership to include the funding in any economic stimulus package that will be considered by Congress in the coming months. Similar efforts are being led in the Senate by Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). The effort to garner support for this program is being led in the House by U.S. Representatives Sander Levin (D-MI), Dale Kildee (D-MI) and Betty Sutton (D-OH). “Funding this new program is critical to the future of the U.S. auto industry, as well as our nation’s efforts to reduce our dependence on foreign sources of oil,” said Rep. Levin. “The federal government must be an active partner in the effort to create these jobs and technologies here in the United States.” “America’s automotive history is rooted in the Great Lakes region, and it would certainly be the ideal location for the rebirth of a greener domestic automotive future and a green economy,” said Dale E. Kildee, Co-Chair of the Congressional Automotive Caucus. “The engineers, the skilled workforce and the infrastructure exist here already but to launch the next generation of automotive technology, this federal funding will be very helpful.” “The health of the auto industry is critical for our Nation and particularly for my district which is home to the Ford plant in Avon Lake. The Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program will help bring renewed vitality to this sector while promoting clean car technology,” said Congresswoman Betty Sutton. “Not only is this good for our economy, but it will help clean up our environment while reducing our dependence on foreign oil.” To view a PDF of the letter with Member signatures, click here. Text of the letter: Dear Speaker Pelosi, Minority Leader Boehner, Chairman Obey and Ranking Member Lewis: We are writing to urge you to include funding in any future economic stimulus package or supplemental appropriations bill to help create green collar jobs for American workers and reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign sources of oil. We respectfully request that the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program authorized in the Energy Independence and Security Act be activated. Fully activating the program will require $3.75 billion in funding to provide up to $25 billion in low-interest credit to U.S. automakers and parts suppliers. Section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act authorized the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program to encourage retooling of existing plants to produce the next generation of vehicles. This incentive program will make it more economically feasible for U.S. auto manufacturers and part suppliers to go forward with the retooling of their facilities by providing low-interest credit for up to 30 percent of the cost of retooling a manufacturing facility in the U.S. to produce advanced technology vehicles (such as hybrids, plug-in hybrids, electric vehicles, advanced direct injection diesels, and fuel cell vehicles) or their key components. Retooling will also create jobs for American workers by ensuring that the vehicles of the future are made in the United States. Retooling plants to produce advanced technology vehicles will greatly reduce our consumption of oil and move our country more quickly towards energy independence. We need a strong partner in the federal government to help invest in advanced technologies so we can create jobs and produce fuel-saving vehicles here in the United States. Thank you for your consideration of this critical request. Sincerely, (####)
07.25.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin applauded today the introduction of legislation to help protect seniors and the disabled from identity theft. The bill, H.R. 6600, of which Rep. Levin is an original cosponsor, would require the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to phase out the display of Medicare beneficiaries’ Social Security numbers on Medicare cards to reduce the likelihood that patients’ numbers can be obtained for use in pernicious identity theft crimes. “Identity theft is a large and growing problem, and its effects can be very onerous for the elderly and disabled citizens on Medicare to resolve,” said Rep. Levin. “We should take every step available to protect privacy and curb these insidious crimes.” The Office of the Inspector General (OIG) of the Social Security Administration has identified the display of Social Security numbers on Medicare cards as a threat to Medicare beneficiaries’ privacy and financial security. The OIG stated in a May 2008 report to the Social Security Commissioner: “Displaying [Social Security numbers] on Medicare cards unnecessarily places millions of individuals at risk for identity theft.” The OIG went on to recommend that the Social Security Administration Commissioner proactively encourage Congress to pass legislation to require phasing out the use of Social Security numbers on Medicare cards. “One sector of government, the Social Security Administration, urges citizens to avoid carrying their Social Security numbers on their person. Meanwhile, another government agency is printing Social Security numbers on cards intended to be carried,” said Rep. Levin. “It’s not good when the left hand doesn’t know what the right hand is doing, but it’s even worse when the left and right hands are working in direct opposition to each other. The bill we are introducing today will eliminate the contradiction in policies of two federal government agencies, and will protect people’s privacy and financial security.” (####)
07.23.2008	(Washington D.C.)- In response to the nationwide economic downturn caused by the housing and credit crisis, the House of Representatives has approved major legislation to combat the unprecedented rise in foreclosures by helping struggling homeowners refinance their mortgages, and increase Community Development Block Grants to help local governments ease the negative impact of rising foreclosure rates on communities and the overall economy. “The housing crisis is central to the economic turmoil we are now facing,” said Rep. Levin. “The federal government must come to the aid of struggling homeowners and support critical financial institutions in order to preserve opportunities for future homeowners. This legislation does both, and is particularly beneficial to Southeast Michigan, where foreclosure rates are among the highest in the nation.” The package includes $3.9 billion in Community Development Block Grants to state and local governments to allow them to purchase foreclosed homes to alleviate the many problems associated with rising foreclosures, such as lower surrounding home values, maintenance costs, possible increased crime and lower property tax revenue. The Center for American Progress estimates that Michigan municipalities could receive around $160 million in direct funding, with communities in the 12th Congressional District receiving nearly $15 million. “Earlier this year, I met with mayors and city managers of communities in my district, and they expressed an overwhelming need for federal action to alleviate this crisis,” said Rep. Levin. “Foreclosures not only affect those who lose their homes, they bring surrounding home values down for everyone. The rise in vacant homes also leads to lower revenue for our communities. This crisis affects us all, and the need for action could not be more critical. Additional Community Development Block Grants to help local governments purchase vacant homes will be of great benefit to Michigan communities.” The legislation also includes a provision strongly supported by Rep. Levin to allow companies that are not currently profitable to participate in a business tax incentive that was unavailable to them as originally passed as part of the economic stimulus program earlier this year. Companies will be allowed to claim accumulated tax credits in place of a more favorable depreciation allowance when making capital investments this year. It is estimated that each of the Big Three automakers will benefit by as much as $30 million. “It is only fair that these companies be rewarded for the investments they make under the economic stimulus program,” said Rep. Levin. “We encouraged companies to make capital investments this year that will help spur economic growth. But companies that do not expect to pay tax this year, in part due to the economic downturn, would receive no benefit regardless of how much they invest. This critical provision would correct that inequity for many companies, including our domestic automakers.” According to RealtyTrac, Inc., Michigan’s foreclosure rate is the fifth highest in the country. Macomb and Oakland Counties’ foreclosure rates are currently second and fifth highest among all counties in Michigan, with Wayne County’s rate the highest. All three counties’ rates are in the top 4% among all counties in the nation. In 2007, the Detroit area had the highest foreclosure rate in the United States. Nationally, foreclosure filings are up 53% in the past year. (All data as of June, 2008, the most recent data available). The housing package will help curb the rise in foreclosures by allowing the Federal Housing Administration to insure up to $300 billion in new loans to help borrowers at risk of foreclosure refinance into lower cost, fixed-rate mortgages. The bill also includes provisions to implement a plan to provide government backing of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the eventuality such support is necessary, and to increase oversight of the two government sponsored enterprises. Finally, the bill includes tax provisions that will help to stabilize and stimulate the housing market, including: • A tax credit to help first-time homebuyers make a down payment on a home, encouraging home purchases• A deduction of property taxes up to $500 ($1000 for married couples) for tax payers taking the standard deduction • A temporary increase in the low-income housing tax credit to help create new options for families seeking affordable housing alternatives• A provision authored by Rep. Levin to allow Federal Home Loan Banks to guarantee tax-exempt bonds, reducing municipalities’ borrowing costs for public projects including road repairs or school and hospital expansions• An additional $10 billion in mortgage revenue bonding authority for 2008 to allow states to help struggling homeowners refinance their mortgages (####)
07.23.2008	(Washington D.C.)- In response to the nationwide economic downturn caused by the housing and credit crisis, the House of Representatives today will vote on major legislation to combat the unprecedented rise in foreclosures by helping struggling homeowners refinance their mortgages and increase Community Development Block Grants to help local governments ease the negative impact of rising foreclosure rates on communities and the overall economy. “The housing crisis is central to the economic turmoil we are now facing,” said Rep. Levin. “The federal government must come to the aid of struggling homeowners and support critical financial institutions in order to preserve opportunities for future homeowners. This legislation does both, and is particularly beneficial to Southeast Michigan, where foreclosure rates are among the highest in the nation.” The package to be voted on today includes $3.9 billion in Community Development Block Grants to state and local governments to allow them to purchase foreclosed homes to alleviate the many problems associated with rising foreclosures, such as lower surrounding home values, maintenance costs, possible increased crime and lower property tax revenue. The Center for American Progress estimates that Michigan municipalities could receive around $160 million in direct funding, while communities in the 12th Congressional District would receive nearly $15 million. “Earlier this year, I met with mayors and city managers of communities in my district, and they expressed an overwhelming need for federal action to alleviate this crisis,” said Rep. Levin. “Foreclosures not only affect those who lose their homes, they bring surrounding home values down for everyone. The rise in vacant homes also leads to lower revenue for our communities. This crisis affects us all, and the need for action could not be more critical. Additional Community Development Block Grants to help local governments purchase vacant homes will be of great benefit to Michigan communities.” The legislation also includes a provision strongly supported by Rep. Levin to allow companies that are not currently profitable to participate in a business tax incentive that was unavailable to them as originally passed as part of the economic stimulus program earlier this year. Companies would be allowed to claim accumulated tax credits in place of a more favorable depreciation allowance when making capital investments this year. It is estimated that each of the Big Three automakers would benefit by as much as $30 million. “It is only fair that these companies be rewarded for the investments they make under the economic stimulus program,” said Rep. Levin. “We encouraged companies to make capital investments this year that will help spur economic growth. But companies that do not expect to pay tax this year, in part due to the economic downturn, would receive no benefit regardless of how much they invest. This critical provision would correct that inequity for many companies, including our domestic automakers.” According to RealtyTrac, Inc., Michigan’s foreclosure rate is the fifth highest in the country. Macomb and Oakland Counties’ foreclosure rates are currently second and fifth highest among all counties in Michigan, with Wayne County’s rate the highest. All three counties’ rates are in the top 4% among all counties in the nation. In 2007, the Detroit area had the highest foreclosure rate in the United States. Nationally, foreclosure filings are up 53% in the past year. (All data as of June, 2008, the most recent data available). The housing package would help curb the rise in foreclosures by allowing the Federal Housing Administration to insure up to $300 billion in new loans to help borrowers at risk of foreclosure refinance into lower cost, fixed-rate mortgages. The bill also includes provisions to implement a plan to provide government backing of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the eventuality such support is necessary, and to increase oversight of the two government sponsored enterprises. Finally, the bill includes tax provisions that would help to stabilize and stimulate the housing market, including: A tax credit to help first-time homebuyers make a down payment on a home, encouraging home purchases A deduction of property taxes up to $500 ($1000 for married couples) for tax payers taking the standard deduction A temporary increase in the low-income housing tax credit to help create new options for families seeking affordable housing alternatives A provision authored by Rep. Levin to allow Federal Home Loan Banks to guarantee tax-exempt bonds, reducing municipalities’ borrowing costs for public projects including road repairs or school and hospital expansions An additional $10 billion in mortgage revenue bonding authority for 2008 to allow states to help struggling homeowners refinance their mortgages. (####)
07.23.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The Great Lakes Compact, a measure designed to ensure Great Lakes water is not diverted to other regions, will be introduced today in Congress. The agreement prohibits the bulk diversion of water from the Great Lakes, with very limited exceptions. The Compact further establishes a comprehensive management framework to protect this shared resource and requires Great Lake states to regulate their own large-scale water use. Congressman Sander Levin today issued the following statement: “The Great Lakes are one of this country’s natural crown jewels, but we risk losing them unless additional steps are taken to protect the Lakes from excessive demands. We’re in a much stronger position to protect the Great Lakes with the Compact than without it. The ratification of the Compact by Congress is key to that effort.” The Compact, an agreement among the eight states bordering the Great Lakes, requires congressional approval and the president’s signature to take effect. Historically, states and the federal government have supported interstate compacts to address issues of water supply, water quality and flood control. There are more than 41 interstate water compacts that have been entered into by states and consented to by Congress over the years. (####)
07.21.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Unemployed individuals throughout Michigan will receive much needed assistance this week, as the Michigan Unemployment Insurance Agency begins distributing Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) checks tomorrow. Congress enacted the nationwide, 13-week unemployment insurance extension last month and, after opposing an extension all year, President Bush relented and signed the extension into law June 30. Individuals who first claimed regular unemployment benefits on or after May 7, 2006 and have since exhausted their regular 26 weeks of benefits are now eligible for the extension. Those exhausting their regular benefits in the coming months are eligible to file for an extension through March 28 of 2009. Congressman Sander Levin, a vocal proponent of extended unemployment benefits since January, issued the following statement: “I have heard from hundreds of Michigan residents, either in person or through letters to my office, who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own and are struggling to afford mortgage payments, health care and rising food and gas costs. The unemployed people who have contacted me come from widely varying backgrounds, industries and education levels. Many are unemployed for the first time in their lives. “This week, unemployed Michiganders will finally begin receiving some long overdue assistance as they continue their search for work. In the coming months, we will be ready to fight to sustain the extended benefit program for people who continue to be unemployed in a difficult job market.” With the highest unemployment rate in the nation at 8.5%, Michigan was especially in need of a benefit extension. The number of unemployed people in Michigan has risen nearly 20% in the last year. The number of long-term unemployed is also at record levels. Nationally, the number of people unemployed for at least 26 weeks has risen to 1.6 million—up 37% in the past year. For details of the national Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, click here. For more information on the distribution of EUC checks in Michigan, click here. (####)
07.17.2008	(Washington D.C.)- House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander L. Levin (D-MI) today introduced legislation to promote an effective trade agenda by ensuring that U.S. workers, farmers, and businesses are getting a fair shake in the global marketplace and that U.S. consumers have confidence that the products they buy are safe. Specifically, H.R.6530 will actively open markets by eliminating foreign barriers to U.S. goods and services exports, combat counterfeiting and piracy, restore rights under U.S. trade remedy laws and strengthen the U.S. ability to address unfair and illegal trade practices. “The American public is skeptical about U.S. trade policy in part because the public does not believe that our trading partners are playing by the same rules as the United States,” Chairman Rangel said. “Our trading partners need to open their markets to U.S. exporters. They need to stop providing trade-distorting subsidies, and to stop dumping their products in our market. They need to protect intellectual property rights, and they need to ensure that their exports to the United States are safe. The Trade Enforcement Act of 2008 will help to regain confidence in U.S. trade policy.” “For international trade to work for U.S. workers, farmers and businesses, we must be sure that trade is a two way street,” said Chairman Levin. “We need to start enforcing the agreements that have been reached, rather than passively accepting their breach. We need a more assertive approach to the enforcement of our international agreements and trade laws. The Trade Enforcement Act of 2008 is a major step in the right direction.” Background In each of the past seven years (2000-2007), the U.S. trade deficit exceeded any trade deficit the United States experienced before 2000. Each year, the deficit has exceeded 3.5 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), and, in 2007, the deficit exceeded five percent of GDP (at more than $711 billion). Before 2000, the largest U.S. trade deficit since World War II occurred in 1987. That deficit was 3.2 percent of GDP. During the Clinton Administration, the United States filed an average of eleven WTO cases each year to open foreign markets for U.S. goods and services exports. Under the Bush Administration, the United States has filed an average of three WTO cases each year. In March 2007, Chairmen Rangel and Levin, along with other House Democrats, offered a “New Trade Policy for America”. That new policy included working to ensure that our trading partners play by the rules. Click here to view bill text of H.R. 6530. Click here to view a short summary of the bill. (####)
07.10.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressmen Sander Levin, John Dingell, Dale Kildee and 49 other Members of the U.S. House of Representatives have urged President Bush to release emergency funding set aside to help families struggling to afford rising home energy costs. Democrats and Republicans of the Northeast/Midwest Congressional Coalition sent a letter to President Bush this week urging him to release $120 million dollars in emergency Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funding. $100 million of those funds will expire if not used by the end of the fiscal year. In Michigan, federally funded home heating assistance to individual families was slashed this year, due to an increased demand for home heating assistance caused by record energy prices. “There have been a record number of applicants for home energy assistance in Michigan since the start of last winter,” said Edward Woods, III, Director of Communications for the Michigan Department of Human Services. “We have been forced to cut energy crisis assistance payments for heat and electricity from $550 per year to $350 because of a lack of funding. The Home Heating Credit program budget was also reduced and the average payment has decreased from $201 to $141. If more federal funds are released, we will be able to provide more assistance to qualifying households in dire need of energy assistance.” “With oil and natural gas costs skyrocketing, many families, individuals with disabilities and senior citizens are finding their home energy costs have become unaffordable,” said Rep. Levin. “This federal funding is available for emergency situations. As energy costs explode, many families are certainly facing an emergency. These funds need to be released now to allow state agencies to budget an increase in assistance for Michigan families.” “Michigan has been hit hard economically, maintains the nation’s highest unemployment rate, and struggles with one of the nation’s highest foreclosure rates. Home heating costs should not be piled on to the burden that Michigan families are already struggling with,” said Rep. Kildee. “The Administration must not delay the release of LIHEAP emergency funds. Timely relief would greatly enhance the benefit to Michigan families still paying their heating bills from last winter and those planning ahead for a cold winter.” Congressman Dingell added: “We are seeing an increase in utility prices and hearing of painful compromises made by our working families. We know the stakes here: if people can’t keep warm in the winter or cool in the summer, it will lead to life or death situations. The victims are often the most vulnerable – the very youngest children or our seniors. Both deserve better from a society that has the resources. The question is do we have the will to do what’s necessary? LIHEAP helps hundreds of thousands of people in my state. If these funds are released, we stand to help hundreds of thousands again. I urge the President to release these additional funds and help thousands of Michigan families.” Last winter, (October 1, 2007 through April 30, 2008), nearly 390,000 Michigan households were assisted through the Home Heating Credit, funded exclusively with federal LIHEAP money. Approximately 110,000 households were assisted through the State Emergency Relief Energy Crisis Assistance program, funded with a combination of LIHEAP and state dollars. The Energy Information Administration predicts that the cost of home heating oil will increase more than 41 percent from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the final quarter of 2008. This is on top of the 162 percent increase that occurred between January 2000 and March 2008. To view a copy of the letter sent to President Bush, click here. (####)
06.30.2008	(Washington D.C.)- President Bush today signed H.R. 2642, the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2008, which included a nationwide 13-week extension of unemployment benefits. Congressman Sander Levin, a vocal proponent of a benefit extension, issued the following statement: “This is an overdue action for more than a million of our citizens that have already exhausted their benefits, and an additional 2 ½ million estimated to exhaust in the coming months—including over 200,000 Michigan residents. “Tomorrow I am going to meet with people that contacted my office to share their personal experiences. People that have contacted me are unemployed through no fault of their own, and many are unemployed for the first time in their lives. A benefit extension will help these individuals afford rising food, gas and healthcare costs and make mortgage payments while they continue to search for work. “We will be ready to fight to sustain the program for people who continue to be unemployed in a difficult job market.” Rep. Levin is inviting individuals who have contacted his office to express their support for extending unemployment benefits and to share their personal experiences with looking for work in these difficult economic times to a roundtable discussion in Roseville on Tuesday: Who: Rep. Sander Levin and Michiganders impacted by the extension of unemployment insurance benefits What: Roundtable discussion with individuals who have been unemployed through no fault of their own and looking for work. Each of these individuals have contacted Rep. Levin about the need to extend unemployment benefits When: Tuesday, July 1, 2008 at 9 a.m. Where: Roseville Parks and Recreation Building 18185 Sycamore St. [Just North of 696; East side of Gratiot] Roseville, MI (####)
06.25.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation to protect more than 25 million families from a tax increase under the alternative minimum tax (AMT). H.R. 6275, the Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008, which would ensure that additional taxpayers, over 800,000 in Michigan, do not face a higher tax bill this year. The bill passed by a vote of 233-189. “This legislation is critical to protecting hundreds of thousands of Michigan families from getting hit with a higher tax bill this year,” said Congressman Sander Levin, a member of the Ways and Means committee, which approved the bill last week. “Many families in Michigan are already struggling to afford rising gas and food prices. With the economic turmoil facing our state, we must protect middle income families from this tax that was never meant to affect them.” The alternative minimum tax was originally passed in 1969 and was intended to stop a small number of wealthy individuals from avoiding paying any income tax by taking numerous deductions. However, as the AMT was never indexed for inflation, the tax will hit millions of middle class families this year if corrective legislation is not enacted. H.R. 6275 is fully offset, that is, it is revenue neutral and will not add to the national debt. Rep. Levin authored the major offset provision in the bill. Levin’s measure would end an inequity in the tax code that allows wealthy investment fund managers to avoid paying income tax on “carried interest” compensation. In exchange for managing their investors’ assets, fund managers often receive a portion of the fund’s profits, or carried interest, usually 20 percent. Currently, fund managers are paying the much lower capital gains rate on this compensation rather than ordinary income tax rates, even though carried interest is money earned on a service provided, not money earned on fund managers’ personal investments. Levin’s provision ends this inequity and clarifies that carried interest is income and is subject to income tax. “Congress must ensure that our tax code is fair,” said Rep. Levin. “Investment fund managers should not pay a lower tax rate on their compensation for services than other Americans. If you are investing your own money, you should receive the capital gains rate, but if you are providing a service, like managing other people’s money, you should pay the ordinary income tax rate like anyone else who provides a service. Fairness requires that fund managers be taxed at the same rate as any other American worker. “Republicans say they do not want to pay for an AMT patch, but the reality is we pay for it one way or the other. We can pay for it by ending inequities in the tax code and making sure some are not avoiding paying their fair share, or we can borrow the money and pass the cost of our tax relief onto our children and grandchildren. Unlike the fiscally irresponsible approach advocated by Republicans, which has contributed to the explosion of the national debt in recent years, the bill to be considered is fiscally sound and is the best way to patch the AMT.” For a summary of H.R. 6275, click here. (####)
06.19.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives tonight approved an extension of unemployment insurance benefits to help the growing number of jobless workers nationwide and to stimulate the economy. The extension, passed 416-12 as an amendment to the War and Domestic Supplemental Funding package, will extend unemployment benefits for 13 weeks across the country. President Bush has agreed to approve the measure despite originally saying he would not support an extension of unemployment benefits. Congressman Sander Levin, a vocal proponent of extending unemployment benefits, spoke on the House floor today in favor of an extension. Congressman Levin’s full Floor remarks, as prepared for delivery: Today the voices of over one million people – who have not been heard enough on this floor – are finally being listened too -- with a much needed extension of unemployment benefits. Some have written us the most persuasive letters about being unemployed for the first time, sending out hundreds of resumes, losing their health care and having difficulty making ends meet. They have not marched on Washington; they have individually been in their communities looking for work. But if they did form a line it would extend from this Capitol to Denver, Colorado. I asked the State of Michigan to provide me background information on the individuals who have exhausted their benefits. They come from the broadest range of occupations – sales, healthcare, production, management, financial operations -- to name just a few. I would suggest that each Member do the same because once you look at the data you will have no doubt that we are doing the right thing today. Today is a victory for more than a million of our citizens and an additional 2 ½ million estimated to exhaust their benefits. This is a vital first step and we will be ready to fight to sustain the program for people who continue to be unemployed in a difficult job market. Today’s vote comes on the heels of the release of new data showing Michigan’s unemployment rate skyrocketed to 8.5% in May—the highest level since the recession of the early 1990s. With so many out of work, Michigan would particularly benefit from an unemployment extension. It is estimated that over 226,000 Michigan workers would be eligible for an extension, and nearly 4 million would be eligible nationally. The U.S. economy has shed nearly 325,000 jobs since the beginning of this year (Michigan has lost 94,000). In May, the U.S. experienced the largest monthly unemployment rate increase in over 20 years, from five to five-and-a-half percent. President Bush previously threatened to veto an unemployment extension, saying that the nation’s 5.5% unemployment rate is too low to warrant an extension—even though he signed an extension in 2002 when the unemployment rate was only two-tenths of one percent higher. The number of long-term unemployed Americans (1.5 million) is now higher than it was when President Bush signed the 2002 extension (1.3 million). The percent of people exhausting regular benefits (37%) is higher than at the beginning of any of the last five recessions, including the 2001-02 recession. Previously, the House and Senate passed legislation to extend unemployment benefits 13 weeks nationwide and 13 additional weeks in high unemployment states. In order to win the approval of the president, the additional assistance to states in greatest need was dropped, but Rep. Levin said he would continue to fight for struggling workers. “We will fight for a further extension for people who continue to be unemployed in a difficult job market,” said Rep. Levin. Experts widely agree that an extension of unemployment benefits is one of the most effective and fast acting forms of economic stimulus, as benefits are spent quickly by unemployed workers and circulated back into the economy. It is estimated that every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in new economic activity. Federal unemployment trust funds, which have more than enough reserves to cover the cost, would finance the benefit extension. The Senate is expected to consider the War and Domestic Supplemental Funding package, including the unemployment extension, next week. Once signed by the president, workers that have exhausted their benefits during or after November of 2006 can begin receiving extended benefits within several weeks. Workers that exhaust benefits through March of 2009 will also be eligible for an extension. (####)
06.12.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to extend unemployment insurance benefits to help the growing number of jobless workers nationwide and to stimulate the economy. H.R. 5749, the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act, passed by a two-to-one vote, 274-137. President Bush has threatened to veto the bill, saying that the unemployment rate is too low to warrant an extension—even though he signed an extension in 2002 when the unemployment rate was only two-tenths of one percent higher. The strong two-thirds vote today suggests the House may be able to override a presidential veto of the measure if necessary. “The strong two-thirds vote today should send a clear message from the people of this country to the Senate minority and the White House that passage of extended unemployment compensation is a number one priority for millions of families throughout the nation,” said Congressman Sander Levin, a leader in the effort to extend unemployment benefits. Rep. Levin also spoke on the House Floor today in favor of an extension. To view video of Rep. Levin speaking on the House Floor, click below: “I think the more we discuss this, the clearer the issue becomes,” Rep. Levin said on the House Floor. “The unemployment rate when President Bush signed the last extension was 5.7 percent; it’s now 5.5. Essentially many Republicans opposing this provision are saying we’re going to deny benefits to well over a million people, with 3 million to come, because of a difference of two-tenths of one percent.” The number of long-term unemployed (1.5 million) is now higher than it was when President Bush signed the last extension in 2002 (1.3 million). The percent of people exhausting regular benefits (37%) is higher than at the beginning of any of the last five recessions. “If you lined up the people who have exhausted their benefits, and those who are likely to, the line would reach from here at this Capitol to Denver,” said Rep. Levin. Of Republicans opposing this legislation, Levin said, “Essentially they’re obeying the position, if not the orders, from the White House—instead of the orders from people at home.” With the highest unemployment rate in the country at 6.9 percent, Michigan would particularly benefit from an unemployment extension. It is estimated that over 226,000 Michigan workers would be eligible for an extension under the provision approved today, and approximately 4 million would be eligible for an extension nationally. The U.S. economy has shed nearly 325,000 jobs since the beginning of this year. In May, the U.S. experienced the largest monthly unemployment rate increase in over 20 years, from 5 to 5.5 percent. Experts widely agree that an extension of unemployment benefits is one of the most effective and fast acting forms of economic stimulus, as benefits are spent quickly by unemployed workers and circulated back into the economy. It is estimated that every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in new economic activity. Federal unemployment trust funds, which have more than enough reserves to cover the cost, would finance the benefit extension. (####)
06.06.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Responding to today’s report of an enormous increase in the unemployment rate, Representative Sander Levin, along with Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel and Representative Jim McDermott, sent the following letter today to President Bush: June 6, 2008 President George W. BushThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: In your Administration’s statement of policy on both the House-passed and Senate-passed supplemental appropriations bills (HR 2642) you suggest concern about a number of provisions in those measures, including the proposed extension of unemployment benefits. We note that the letter did not specifically threaten to veto the bill because of the unemployment insurance (UI) extension. However, it has been suggested that you may veto the supplemental spending bill if it includes a provision extending unemployment benefits. We strongly urge you to clarify your position on this issue in light of today’s report showing the number of unemployed workers rising by 861,000 in the month of May. We believe it would be both economically unwise and morally wrong to deny extended unemployment benefits to workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. These unemployed workers and their families are suffering in an economy that both limits their employment prospects and drives up their cost of living. The data released today by the Department of Labor shows unemployment rising rapidly. The increase in the unemployment rate in May was the biggest one month increase in over 20 years, and the total number of unemployed workers has increased by over 1.6 million over the last 12 months. Furthermore, the number of long-term unemployed Americans (those needing extended benefits) is very high. The percentage of workers exhausting regular unemployment benefits without finding work has now risen to the same rate (37 percent) as when you signed the last extension of unemployment benefits into law in 2002. Similarly, the number of long-term jobless workers (out of work for longer than six months) is actually higher now than when you signed the previous UI extension. These long-term unemployed workers are facing an economy that has lost jobs for five consecutive months, meaning their immediate employment prospects have become even more difficult. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) assumes that roughly 3.5 million workers will exhaust their regular UI benefits in calendar year 2008 without finding new employment. It is also worth noting that CBO and most economists believe that extending unemployment benefits is one of the most effective forms of economic stimulus because laid-off workers have little choice but to spend the money quickly. We hope you agree that we should not abandon hard-working families who are suffering the effects of the current downturn in the economy. We therefore urge you to support an extension of unemployment benefits for struggling families throughout our great nation. Sincerely, Charles B. RangelChairmanCommittee on Ways and Means Sander M. LevinMember Jim McDermottMember (####)
05.20.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to combat record gas prices by cracking down on OPEC-controlled entities and oil companies for oil price fixing. The bill, the Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act (HR 6074), passed by a vote of 324-84. “With gas approaching four bucks a gallon in Michigan, the federal government must take every responsible step it can to help provide families some relief at the pump,” said Congressman Sander Levin. “It is time U.S. authorities had the power to hold the OPEC cartel accountable under federal anti-trust laws.” OPEC, the world’s best known oil cartel, accounts for more than two-thirds of global oil production, and OPEC’s oil exports represent 65% of oil traded internationally. The legislation approved today, also called the “NOPEC” bill, gives the U.S. Justice Department the ability to prosecute anticompetitive conduct committed by international cartels like OPEC that restrict supply and drives up prices. The bill would remove the immunity of sovereign states which effectively puts OPEC and its members beyond the reach of U.S. anti-trust laws. The bill also creates a Department of Justice Petroleum Industry Antitrust Task Force to examine the existence and effects of price gouging in the sale of gasoline, anticompetitive price discrimination by petroleum refiners, unilateral actions to withhold supply to inflate the prices and manipulation in futures markets. Last week, Congress passed legislation to help lower gas prices by suspending shipments of oil to the strategic petroleum reserve (which is 97% full, containing more than 700 million barrels of oil), putting 76,000 more barrels of oil supply on the market each day. The House will likely also consider a package of tax incentives later this week to promote investment in renewable energy, including a provision authored by Rep. Levin to expand the tax credit available to gas stations that install E85 fuel pumps. Across the country, gas prices have continued to climb in recent months, hitting a record $3.80 per gallon national average for regular self-serve gasoline. In Michigan, gas prices have jumped nearly 40 cents per gallon in the last month alone. According to AAA, the average cost of a gallon of gas in Michigan is $3.91, the sixth highest among the 48 contiguous states. AAA predicts the national average will likely exceed $4 per gallon soon, meaning Michigan’s average could rise well above $4 in the coming weeks. (####)
05.15.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed an extension of unemployment insurance benefits to help the growing number of jobless workers nationwide and to stimulate the economy. The extension, which was taken up as an amendment to the War and Domestic supplemental funding package, would extend unemployment benefits for 13 weeks across the country and 13 additional weeks in high unemployment states like Michigan. Congressman Sander Levin, a vocal proponent of extending unemployment benefits, spoke on the House Floor today in favor of an extension. To view video of Rep. Levin speaking on the House Floor, click here. “The number of long term unemployed Americans is almost twice as high now as it was in the last recession,” said Rep. Levin. “I come from Michigan with a high unemployment level. I think it’s time that the minority and the president get out of the offices they reside in and get into the shoes of typical American families. “And I now read a letter that came from a person in Roseville whose husband has lost his job as a machinist, and I quote: “With the job market as bleak as it is today, the fear that unemployment benefits may run out is something no family should have to face. My husband has been actively seeking work since his layoff… but there's simply nothing to be had right now. I’ve never seen him look so sad and upset in all our nearly 30 years of marriage. “The President and Congress must be made to understand that what is happening to the workers of this country and most especially to the people of Michigan is not something they've chosen for themselves.” Rep. Levin concluded, “Opposition to extension of unemployment compensation is unconscionable.” With the highest unemployment rate in the country at 7.2 percent (according the U.S. Department of Labor’s most recent available data), Michigan would particularly benefit from an unemployment extension. It is estimated that over 226,000 Michigan workers will be eligible for an extension under the provision approved today. Nationwide, 3.5 million U.S. workers are expected to exhaust their unemployment benefits in 2008. The U.S. economy has shed over a quarter million jobs since the beginning of this year. According to the Economic Policy Institute, there are roughly 3.8 million job openings across the country, while 7.6 million Americans are unemployed—meaning there are two workers seeking employment for every available job. The Senate is expected to take up its own supplemental funding package next week.
05.08.2008	(Washington D.C.)- In response to the nationwide economic downturn caused by the housing and credit crisis, the House of Representatives today approved major legislation to combat the unprecedented rise in foreclosures by helping struggling homeowners refinance their mortgages, encourage the purchase of homes to revive the housing market and address the negative impact of rising foreclosure rates on communities and the overall economy. “The housing crisis is central to the economic turmoil we are now facing,” said Rep. Levin. “Congress must come to the aid of struggling homeowners, not just the financial markets. This legislation is particularly beneficial to Southeast Michigan, where foreclosure rates have been among the highest in the nation.” According to RealtyTrac, Inc., Macomb and Oakland Counties’ foreclosure rates are currently third and sixth highest among all counties in Michigan, with Wayne County’s rate the highest. All three counties’ rates are in the top 5% among all counties in the nation. In 2007, the Detroit-area had the highest foreclosure rate in the United States. RealtyTrac announced last week that nationwide foreclosure filings in the first quarter of 2008 are more than double what they were last year. One central piece of the approved legislation is a provision orginally co-sponsored by Rep. Levin that would allow the Federal Housing Administration to insure up to $300 billion in new loans to help borrowers at risk of foreclosure refinance into viable mortgages. Another bill would provide $15 billion in loans and grants to state and local governments to purchase foreclosed homes to help communities alleviate the many problems associated with rising foreclosures. “I met with mayors and city managers of Macomb and Oakland County communities a few weeks ago, and they expressed an overwhelming need for federal action to alleviate this crisis,” said Rep. Levin. “Foreclosures not only affect those that lose their homes, they bring surrounding home values down for everyone. Foreclosures and vacant homes in neighborhoods also drive crime up, reduce revenue for local governments and school districts and have a detrimental impact on the overall economy. The need for action to address this crisis could not be more critical.” Also approved today was a package of housing tax provisions, including: • A tax credit to help first-time homebuyers make a down payment on a home, encouraging home purchases • A deduction of property taxes up to $350 ($700 for married couples) for tax payers taking the standard deduction • A temporary increase in the low-income housing tax credit to help create new options for families seeking affordable housing alternatives • A provision authored by Rep. Levin to allow Federal Home Loan Banks to guarantee tax-exempt bonds, reducing municipalities’ borrowing costs for public projects including road repairs or school and hospital expansions • An additional $10 billion in mortgage revenue bonding authority for 2008 to allow states to help struggling homeowners refinance their mortgages (####)
05.08.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin and other lawmakers are calling on President Bush to help working families by taking action to lower the cost of gasoline. In a letter to the president, Rep. Levin and other House Members urged President Bush to suspend the filling of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), an action the president has the power to take immediately to lower the price at the pump. Not only would this action put more oil on the market, it could also have an immediate impact on speculators who are driving up oil prices. “We should be taking every action possible to reduce fuel costs for struggling families, and halting shipments to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve should be the obvious first step,” said Levin. “Suspending the fill of the SPR will instantly free up 70,000 barrels of oil a day, putting more supply on the market and lowering the price of oil and gasoline. I cannot understand why the president is resisting this action to help reduce gas prices.” The SPR is currently 97% full. Congressman Levin has also co-sponsored a bill to suspend the fill of the SPR, but the legislation would not be necessary if the president chooses to take action on his own. Bush halted the fill of the SPR in 2006, when oil was trading at $69 a barrel, saying, “Every little bit helps.” But with oil now at a record $120 per barrel, the president is resisting a stoppage of shipments to the SPR. To view a copy of the letter sent to President Bush click here. (####)
05.01.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives yesterday approved over $1 million in funding for road repairs in Roseville. The funds were approved as part of a transportation package, HR 1195, which makes corrections to the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), which passed by a vote of 358-51. With the Senate previously approving the legislation, the package will now be sent to the president for his signature. The $1,024,000 in federal funds will be used for patching, resurfacing and drainage improvements on Martin Rd. between Groesbeck Hwy. (M-97) and Gratiot Ave. (M-3). Congressman Sander Levin worked extensively with Roseville officials to secure the funding. “Keeping Martin Road in good condition is important for local businesses and travelers,” Rep. Levin said. “This repair will ease travel for parents and school buses dropping off and picking students at Roseville Jr. High. Roseville leaders have told me that this project is among their top road work priorities, and this funding should go a long way in helping to provide necessary repairs.” “Cuts in revenue sharing from the State of Michigan, as well as declining property values, are placing a tremendous stress on our operating budget,” said Steve Truman, Roseville City Manager. “As a result, we are no longer able to supplement our road funds to make necessary repairs. Any funding that we receive from the Federal Government for the Martin Road Project will provide much needed relief to the residents and businesses that rely on this road.” Rep. Levin originally secured funding for road work on Frazho Road in Roseville in the last major SAFETEA-LU transportation bill. However, as Roseville was able secure funding through the state for that project, Rep. Levin worked to keep the money in Roseville and reprogram the funds to be used on Martin Road. (####)
05.01.2008	(Washington D.C.)- In response to the nationwide economic downturn caused by the housing and credit crisis, members of the House Financial Services Committee today approved legislation to combat the unprecedented rise in foreclosures and help struggling homeowners refinance their mortgages. “The housing crisis is central to the economic turmoil we are now facing,” said Rep. Levin, an original co-sponsor of the legislation. “To fully address this crisis, Congress must come to the aid of struggling homeowners, not just the financial markets. This legislation is particularly beneficial to Southeast Michigan, where foreclosure rates have been among the highest in the nation.” According to RealtyTrac, Inc., Macomb and Oakland Counties’ foreclosure rates are currently third and sixth highest among all counties in Michigan, with Wayne County’s rate the highest. All three counties’ rates are in the top 5% among all counties in the nation. In 2007, the Detroit-area had the highest foreclosure rate in the United States. RealtyTrac announced Tuesday that nationwide foreclosure filings in the first quarter of 2008 are more than double what they were last year. The legislation approved today, H.R. 5830, the FHA Housing and Homeowner Retention Act, would allow the Federal Housing Administration to insure up to $300 billion in new loans to help borrowers at risk of foreclosure refinance into viable mortgages. The Financial Services Committee estimates the ultimate cost of the program to be between $3 and $6 billion. The new insurance would be offered only if lenders agree to accept 85% of the home’s current value as payment in full. While lenders would take a loss by accepting less than the full amount of the original loan, the costs of foreclosure for lenders is almost always greater. (####)
05.01.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to protect patients against discrimination by health insurance providers and employers based on their genetic makeup or predisposition to disease or chronic condition. H.R. 493, the Genetic Information Non-discrimination Act of 2008, was approved by a vote of 414-1. Congressman Sander Levin is a co-sponsor of the legislation. “Newly developed genetic testing holds great promise in treating illness,” said Rep. Levin. “So we need to take steps to ensure that fear of discrimination by employers or health care providers does not discourage people from undergoing genetic testing or participating in clinical studies. No one should face discrimination because of their genetic make-up or a preexisting health condition. The legislation passed today will protect patients and promote medical research.” H.R. 493 prohibits insurance companies, employers and labor unions from discriminating on the basis of an individual's genetic information for the purpose of employment, providing compensation, providing health insurance and increasing premiums. The legislation was originally approved in the House with a vote of 420 to 3 on April 25, 2007. Until last week, the bill has been held up in the Senate by Senator Tom Coburn over concerns the bill would expose employers to excessive legal liability. The Senate amended and passed H.R. 493 by unanimous consent April 24, 2008. “Legislation to stop discrimination based on an existing health condition or family history has been a long time coming,” said Rep. Levin. “We first approved this bill in the Ways and Means Committee over a year ago. I am pleased it is finally on its way to the president.” (####)
04.24.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed HR 2830, the Coast Guard Authorization Act by a vote of 395-7. One of the bill’s goals is the elimination of invasive species like the zebra mussel from ballast water that is discharged into U.S. waters by 2015. This bill would require water treatment systems that meet international standards after 2008, and would set an even higher standard 100 times more stringent that would become effective no later than 2013. The legislation also requires all ships entering U.S. waters to conduct ballast water exchange at least 200 miles off the nation’s coastline. Both civil and criminal penalties would apply for violations, and the Coast Guard would be authorized to detain ships that fail to meet applicable regulations. Congressman Sander Levin issued the following statement in support of the legislation’s provisions on invasive species: “The Great Lakes are one of this nation’s crown jewels. They are the most unique set of freshwater lakes in the world. They provide drinking water for millions. They provide habitat for our fisheries and they offer tremendous recreational and tourism opportunities. “The Great Lakes are threatened by damaging aquatic invasive species that arrive in the Lakes at a rate of one every eight months. The communities I represent have first-hand experience of the devastation these aquatic invaders can cause. In the mid-1980s, the zebra mussel was brought to the Great Lakes by hitching a ride on an ocean vessel from Europe. The economic and ecological costs of dealing with aquatic invasive species are staggering. “Invasive aquatic species pose a clear and present danger to virtually every U.S. waterway and coastal area. Many more invasive species will arrive in rapid succession and spread within U.S. waters unless effective measures are taken to prevent them.” (####)
04.23.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to stop rule changes to Medicaid proposed by the Bush Administration that restrict Medicaid payment in key areas and could reduce coverage and cost the State of Michigan billions of dollars. H.R. 5613, Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act, passed by a vote of 349-62. This bipartisan bill places a moratorium until March 2009 on seven damaging Administration-imposed Medicaid regulations. If these regulations were allowed to go into place, they could severely impact state budgets at a time when states are already financially struggling. Despite the support of all 50 Governors, President Bush has vowed to veto the bill. “States need more support from the federal government during these difficult economic times, not less,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Creating a nearly $4 billion deficit in Medicaid funding for Michigan would be especially harmful to children and persons with disabilities, and would add to the number of uninsured in Michigan.” The Bush regulations would restrict Medicaid funding to states in key areas like rehabilitation services, disability case management, school-based programs, outpatient care and graduate medical education. According to a report released by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the president’s rule changes could cost the State of Michigan over $3.9 billion over the next five years and could deprive thousands of Michigan residents of basic health care services. The report, The Administration’s Medicaid Regulations: State-by-State Impacts, finds that states estimated that the regulations would reduce federal payments to them by nearly $50 billion over the next five years. The report also finds that the new regulations will disrupt existing systems of care for fragile populations and threaten the financial stability of the hospitals, emergency rooms and clinics that treat Americans without health insurance. Rep. Levin has advocated a temporary increase in the federal Medicaid funding match to states to protect health care for Americans that cannot afford health insurance and as a way to stimulate the economy, as was done during the last national recession. Along with all 50 governors, the Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act is supported by more than 2,000 organizations, including the National Association of Counties, AARP, American Hospital Association, National Association of Medicaid Directors, National Association of Mental Health Program Directors, American Academy of Pediatrics, and National Public Health Association. (####)
04.18.2008	(Washington D.C.)- In response to the continued economic downturn, four Members of Congress from Michigan joined with their colleagues all across the country from New Hampshire to Southern California in sending a letter initiated by Congressman John D. Dingell (D-MI15) to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi calling for a second, broader economic stimulus initiative. This is on the heels of a stimulus package which passed Congress and was signed into law in February that provided most taxpayers with a rebate check. In addition to calling for short-term initiatives to stimulate the economy like extending unemployment benefits, increased infrastructure investment and increased food stamp payments, this letter focuses on creating a strategy for creating well-paying jobs and preparing a workforce in transition. “Americans, particularly those in my home state of Michigan, are feeling the pain of the ever-weakening economy. House and Senate leadership are to be commended for the swift and well-reasoned action taken earlier this year. However, we must go further,” Dingell said. “The employment marketplace is changing faster than our people can adapt to the new conditions. The remedies we are calling for could help soften the landing for those who’ve taken a hard fall either because of lost job, foreclosured home or both.” Joining Dingell from Michigan were Congressman Dale Kildee (D-MI05), Congressman Sandy Levin (D-MI12), and Congressman Bart Stupak (D-MI01). “While economists debate whether the country is in a recession, for people living in Michigan there is no doubt. Unemployment in Michigan is 7.2 percent, well above the national rate of 5.1 percent,” said Kildee. “Tax rebates will help to stimulate the economy in Michigan, but more must be done in Washington to send much needed help to job-seekers.” “My office receives stories everyday from people in Michigan desperately struggling to find work, to afford healthcare and to keep their homes,” said Representative Levin. “In the face of the extreme hardship so many families are facing, the president’s hands-off approach to the current economic crisis is troubling. We must take action to pull our nation out of its economic tailspin and create good jobs over the long-term. The provisions we are calling for will help those individuals in dire need now, and strengthen the general economic health of the nation.” “The tax rebate checks that will start going out next month are a good start for providing immediate economic relief to those who need it the most,” Stupak said. “But additional action is needed to address our economic challenges in the long-term. An infusion of spending on vital infrastructure projects in particular will pump money into our local communities, put people to work and provide the backbone to grow our economy.” In the letter, Dingell and the 29 Members call for: an extension of unemployment insurance benefits to 20 weeks, to be followed by 13 additional weeks for high unemployment states like Michigan increased food stamp benefits for the families most in need an increase in the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage by 2.95 percent, which would provide a direct economic boost to struggling states and ensure that our most vulnerable citizens continue to receive critical health care coverage increased investment in schools, roads, water and sewer projects, and other public infrastructure projects that are ready to go will put people to work and build or repair needed capi­tal assets while pumping up the economy amending the tax code to allow the federal government to pay for 50 percent of catastrophic healthcare costs above a certain threshold for all workers with company-provided coverage and employed by manufacturers that operate in the United States authorize the government refinancing of some troubled mortgages with a program similar to the Homeowners’ Loan Corporation, which was so successful during the Great Depression strengthening and enhancing the Technology Innovation Program (TIP), the American Competitiveness Initiative (ACI), and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) increasing in the amount and extending of the current consumer tax credit for the purchase of advanced technology vehicles The other Members who’ve joined the Congressman include: Edolphus Towns (NY)Carol Shea-Porter (NH)David Loebsack (IA)Frank Pallone (NJ)Henry Waxman (CA)Artur Davis (AL)Doris Matsui (CA)Mike Doyle (PA) Bob Filner (CA)Bart Stupak (MI)Gwen Moore (WI)Nick Rahall (WV)Tammy Baldwin (WI)Donald Payne (NJ)Hank Johnson (GA)John Lewis (GA)Sander Levin (MI)Phil Hare (IL)Sanford Bishop (GA)Mazie Hirono (HI)Joe Courtney (CT)Jan Schakowsky (IL)Betty McCollum (MN)John Hall (NY)Rick Boucher (VA)Stephanie Tubbs Jones (OH)Carolyn Maloney (NY)Lynn Woolsey (CA)Dale Kildee (MI) “I want to thank all of those who’ve signed on to this letter,” Dingell said. “Many Americans can’t wait until January 2009 for change. It is our job to provide help for them now.” Click here to view the letter (####)
04.18.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement regarding the news that the U.S. and South Korea have reached a tentative understanding on access of U.S. beef in the Korean market: “A last minute, unenforceable, untested, agreement on beef is not enough to satisfy Congress. The problem with this FTA has always been broader than beef -- it is the agreement’s basic acquiescence to Korea’s one-way street in manufacturing trade that is also unacceptable. “We can’t accept a model of trade that fails to stand up for U.S. businesses in the area that now represents 87% of our trade deficit with South Korea,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “The FTA as negotiated will simply lock in a structure of one-way trade between the two industrialized nations and allow the Korean auto industry to continue an export driven strategy using the profits from their protected home market to fund R & D and broader incursions into the US and other major markets. “The current FTA as negotiated is a missed opportunity for U.S. businesses and workers,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “As we have made clear all along, there is a way to address the major imbalances and barriers in trade between our two countries, but the Administration has failed to do so in this Agreement.” Background The Beef Protocol It was widely understood that Korea would reopen its market before the U.S. Congress would be asked to consider the Korea free trade agreement (FTA). However, the protocol announced today fails to ensure that the Korean beef market will remain open in the future. If Korea violates the protocol, the most serious consequence will be “consultations” between the United States and Korea, rather than an enforcement mechanism. And there is no consequence if Korea decides to terminate the protocol altogether. Korea’s Closed Automotive Market The facts tell the real story. Korea is the fifth largest producer, and the ninth largest consumer automotive market in the world. We now have an $11 billion deficit in automotive trade which is 87% of the total deficit between our two countries. In 2006, Korea sold 700,000 vehicles in the U.S.; the U.S. sold only 4,556 in Korea. It is important when evaluating this level of import penetration, to look at the figures for other nations. The average level of automotive imports in the 30 OECD countries is over 40%. Korea’s auto import rate of 3.6% puts it at 30th out of 30, or the bottom of all OECD countries. The FTA fails to address the extensive use of discriminatory tax structures and non-tariff barriers used by Korea to keep its auto market closed. We also know through experience – two previous Korean formal automotive trade agreements that the United States called the 1995 and 1998 “Memorandums of Understanding” (MOUs) – that it is very difficult to move the Koreans to end these non-tariff barriers to U.S. exports. By giving away the 2.5% auto tariff and negotiating down the 25% pick-up truck tariff without linking it to concrete results in assuring the end of Korea’s unfair non-tariff barrier structure, USTR has locked in the status quo and worse in Korea. Korean automakers win $217 million in auto tariff reductions from the FTA while tariff reductions for U.S. automakers amount to just $12 million. (####)
04.17.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin today joined a bipartisan majority in the U.S. House of Representatives to approve legislation to ensure that the turmoil in the U.S. financial markets does not keep students and families from accessing the federal student loans they need to pay for college. The Ensuring Continued Access to Federal Student Loans Act of 2008 (H.R. 5715), which carries no new cost for taxpayers, was passed by a vote of 383-27. “A college education continues to be the best pathway to a good paying job, and having a well-educated workforce is crucial to our nation’s economic success,” said Rep. Levin. “All qualified students that desire a university degree should have the opportunity to earn one. This legislation will help ensure that student loans – increasingly necessary for many to afford higher education – remain accessible.” The legislation would provide new protections, in addition to those that already exist under current law, to ensure that families continue to have timely, uninterrupted access to federal college loans in the event that the stress in the credit markets leads a significant number of lenders to substantially reduce their activity in the federally guaranteed student loan program. H.R. 5715 would: Reduce borrowers’ reliance on costlier private college loans by increasing the annual loan limits on federal college loans by $2,000 for undergraduate students, and by increasing the aggregate loan limit (the total over the course of a student’s education) to $31,000 for dependent undergraduates and $57,500 for independent undergraduates; Give parent borrowers more time to begin paying off their federal PLUS loans by providing them with the option to defer repayment up to six months after their children leave school – giving families more flexibility in hard economic times. Help struggling homeowners pay for college by making sure that short-term delinquencies in mortgage payments do not prohibit otherwise eligible parents from being able to borrow parent PLUS loans. Under current law, parents with an adverse credit history are ineligible to receive a parent PLUS loan, except under extenuating circumstances. The legislation would temporarily classify as an extenuating circumstance delinquencies of up to 180 days on home mortgages or medical expenses, making it possible for financially struggling parents to secure loans for their children; Clarify that existing law gives the U.S. Education Secretary the authority to advance federal funds to guaranty agencies in the event that they do not have sufficient capital to originate new loans, and allow guaranty agencies to carry out the functions of lender of last resort on a school-wide basis. Under the Higher Education Act, these guaranty agencies are obligated to serve as a nationwide network of lenders of last resort if requested to do so by the Education Secretary; and Give the U.S. Education Secretary the temporary authority to purchase loans from lenders in the federal guaranteed loan program, ensuring that lenders continue to have access to capital to originate new loans. The Education Department would be authorized to purchase loans only if doing so would not result in a net cost for the federal government. (####)
04.16.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin highlighted the real faces behind the need to extend unemployment insurance at a House committee mark-up of legislation to extend unemployment benefits today. Rep. Levin also presented a national map demonstrating county-by-county levels of unemployment for the committee. The House Ways and Means Committee approved the extension of unemployment benefits by a vote of 23-13. The bill, H.R. 5749, the “Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 2008,” would provide up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits in every state to workers exhausting regular unemployment compensation. In states with higher levels of unemployment (6% or greater unemployment insurance rate), an additional 13 weeks would be available (for a total of 26 weeks of extended benefits). Michigan would be considered a high unemployment state under the legislation. Rep. Levin’s remarks as prepared for delivery follow (contact information for each local person is available upon request): As we consider this legislation today, as we discuss unemployment rates and other labor statistics, it is important to remember that there are real people across this country impacted by what we do. I want to read some of their stories because I have been so struck by them. Donna Bidigare of Roseville recently contacted me about how important unemployment insurance is to her family. Her story exemplifies the type of families relying on unemployment insurance today. “I just received your latest newsletter and read the article regarding "Jobs Report Shows More Evidence of Overdue Need to Extend Unemployment Insurance" with great interest. My husband Steven, a CNC machinist for over 30 years, recently lost his job on February 29, 2008. Although he was told it would a temporary layoff, the ongoing problems within the auto-industry, as well as the situation with the strike at American Axle have given both he and I great cause for concern. We're already at the point of dipping into our savings to make ends meet, since the unemployment checks he receives do not even begin to cover all our monthly expenses. Plus, we're also faced with not having medical insurance -- a terrifying situation, given the fact that I am a breast cancer survivor. Unfortunately, the COBRA insurance coverage costs were well beyond what we could ever hope to afford right now. With the job market as bleak as it is today, the fear that unemployment benefits may run out is something no family should have to face as well right now. My husband has been actively seeking work since his layoff 6 weeks ago by using the "Michigan Talent Bank" online service and by traveling out on his own -- putting "feelers" out to friends etc. -- but there's simply nothing to be had right now. I’ve never seen him look so sad and upset in all our nearly 30 years of marriage. The President and Congress MUST be made to understand that what is happening to the workers of this country and most especially to the people of Michigan is not something they've chosen for themselves. This is a situation far beyond the worker's control and we need help until the situation improves.” I have heard from many who find themselves in this situation over the last year. This is from David Leach, an accountant from Southfield. “I don't know if my constant emails about extended unemployment benefits helped you in proposing an extension but I do thank you. If I had gotten an extension in 10/07, I would have been able to save my house even w/o a job. But at least I can pay my other bills if passed NOW.” I received a message from James and Cindy Gehart in Sterling Heights. They were both laid off after being employed at Farmer Jack’s Supermarkets for over 35 years. Mrs. Gehart’s benefits ran out in January. Mr. Gehart has three weeks left. They are dipping into savings to pay $600 a month for health insurance. They are avidly looking for work but cannot find anything. I was also contacted by Ryman Holland, a Vietnam War veteran from Southfield. He is a skilled worker, a master electrician. He is 58 years old and cannot find work. He’s paying $170 out of pocket for health insurance. I called up the local IBEW office last week, and they said that 1300 people were “on the bench” looking for work. Victoria Seckler of Sterling Heights wrote: Please, please keep trying to get us unemployed people some help with extending unemployed benefits! I have been out of work for eight months and have applied and been declined for many, many jobs. In fact, Ms. Seckler says she has applied for over 200 jobs, “many basic, $8 per hour jobs” but to no avail. Her benefits expired March 1. Mrs. Seckler has no health care. She spent all of her savings and drained her IRA paying for doctor visits and medication to treat a tumor in her kidney. Mrs. Seckler went on to write: No one in this country should have to live like this. For so many of us previously middle and upper-class, we are now in poverty. Thank you and please get something done! I agree with Mrs. Seckler. Let’s get something done. Later in the hearing, Rep. Levin presented for the committee the national map demonstrating county-by-county levels of unemployment. Rep. Levin used the map to show that even states that, unlike Michigan, have a low statewide unemployment rate have pockets of high unemployment, demonstrating the need for a nationwide extension of unemployment insurance benefits. To view the map, click here. (####)
04.15.2008	(Washington D.C.)- As taxpayers in Michigan and across the country completed their tax returns today, the House of Representatives passed legislation to improve federal tax preparation procedures, use tax dollars more efficiently and stop companies from avoiding paying taxes by moving offshore. The Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act was passed by the House by a vote of 238-179. Congressman Sander Levin joined a majority in the House of Representatives in support of the Act. “We must always seek ways to improve our federal tax system so it works better,” said Rep. Levin. “This legislation sets important priorities in ending abuses and improving service to Americans.” The legislation will end the inefficient practice of outsourcing the collection of federal taxes to private companies. Today’s Washington Post reports that this practice has cost the IRS $37 million more than it generates. And there have been numerous reports of taxpayer harassment by these private companies. “The government has squandered millions of tax dollars on these private outfits,” said Levin. “Meanwhile, these companies have harassed taxpayers who in many cases do not even know they owe additional taxes. The outsourcing of the IRS’ work is a waste of tax dollars that must stop.” The Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act also strengthens taxpayer protections from identity theft and tax fraud, simplifies cell phone tax reporting, expands tax help for low-income taxpayers, and includes measures to make the tax code easier to use and understand. The bill passed today strengthens IRS outreach and assistance efforts to help ensure taxpayers know they are entitled to tax refunds or to payments under the Earned Income Tax Credit. The legislation also takes steps to stop federal contractors from using foreign subsidiaries to evade Social Security and other employment taxes. Currently, companies can avoid paying Social Security and Medicare taxes by creating offshore shell companies. The issue received national attention when the Boston Globe reported that KBR, which performs reconstruction work in Iraq, avoided millions of dollars in employment taxes by claiming that its employees in Iraq were actually employed by a Cayman Islands subsidiary. The Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification closes this loophole, which costs American taxpayers almost $100 million a year. (####)
04.09.2008	(Washington D.C.)- A wide bipartisan majority of the House Committee on Ways and Means today approved legislation to help alleviate the national housing crisis. The Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 would provide tax credits to first-time homebuyers, improve access to low-income housing and allow families to deduct property taxes, as well as a provision authored by Congressman Sander Levin to relieve pressure on credit markets and make public projects more affordable for local communities. The package will help bring stability to the housing market while assisting families in the purchase of their first home and improving access to affordable housing. The legislation is designed to complement efforts by the House Committee on Financial Services to address the growing rate of foreclosures nationwide. “To fully address the mortgage crisis, Congress must provide relief to homeowners and new home buyers, not just address problems in the financial markets,” said Rep. Levin. “This package of legislation will help to address the problems in our housing markets, which are central to the weakening economy.” The provision authored by Rep. Levin will help make local governments, squeezed by declining revenues and higher borrowing costs, better able to afford a wide variety of public projects including road repairs or school and hospital expansions. Levin’s provision would allow Federal Home Loan Banks to guarantee tax-exempt bonds, reducing borrowing costs for municipalities. The provision is endorsed by numerous mayors, municipalities and community development groups, as well as the American Hospital Association, American Bankers Association and National Association of Homebuilders. “Allowing the Federal Home Loan Banks to insure tax-exempt municipal bonds will help restore stability to the municipal credit market, allowing communities to continue making critical investments and relieving some of the pressure on credit markets generally,” said Rep. Levin. “In light of the problems facing the bond insurance industry, which has been damaged by its exposure to subprime mortgage securities, this legislation is more necessary than ever.” Another provision of the legislation will expand states’ authority to issue tax-exempt housing bonds. Governor Jennifer Granholm signed legislation last week to allow the Michigan Housing Development Authority (MSHDA) to refinance existing mortgages at competitive rates for homeowners with credit trouble, and this legislation would allow MSHDA to use the proceeds from tax-exempt bonds for the new refinancing program, resulting in lower interest rates for homeowners. The Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 will likely come before the full House of Representatives in the coming weeks. Along with Rep. Levin’s provision, the main provisions included in the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 include: First-time homebuyer tax credit to assist in making a down payment on a home. This would provide individuals and families with a refundable credit (equivalent to an interest-free loan) of ten percent of the purchase price of their home (up to $7,500). Taxpayers would be required to repay any amount received under this provision to the government over 15 years in equal installments. The credit will be phased out for taxpayers with adjusted gross income in excess of $70,000 ($110,000 in the case of a joint return). Additional standard deduction for real property taxes to help homeowners who claim the standard deduction by allowing them to claim an additional standard deduction of up to $350 ($700 for joint filers) for State and local real property taxes. This provision applies for 2008. Temporary increase in low-income housing tax credit and simplification of the credit. This provision would increase the current annual limit of Federal-low income housing tax credits that each state may allocate from $2.00 to $2.20 per resident. This will help put builders to work to create new options for families seeking affordable housing alternatives. The credit will also be simplified to improve its effectiveness. Temporary increase in mortgage revenue bonds to allow for the issuance of an additional $10 billion of tax-exempt bonds to refinance subprime loans, provide loans to first-time homebuyers and to finance the construction of low-income rental housing. (####)
04.09.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today voted to approve House Resolution 1077, “Calling Upon Chinese Government to End Crackdown in Tibet and Begin Substantive Dialogue with the Dalai Lama,” by a vote of 413-1. The resolution calls on China to end its crackdown in Tibet; enter into a substantive dialogue directly with the Dalai Lama; allow independent monitors, journalists and medical personnel into Tibet; and release all Tibetans who were arrested for non-violently expressing their political views. Congressman Sander Levin, Chair of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China (more information on the CECC follows), spoke on the House floor in support of the resolution. Following are Rep. Levin’s remarks, as prepared for delivery: “Chinese law includes protections for the distinctive culture, language and identity of ethnic minority citizens. China’s Regional Ethnic Autonomy Law guarantees ethnic minorities the ‘right to administer their internal affairs.’ More specifically, the term ‘regional ethnic autonomy,’ as the law itself defines it, ‘reflects the state's full respect for…ethnic minorities’ right to administer their internal affairs.’ Madame Speaker, China in recent weeks has reflected anything but “the state’s full respect” of ethnic minority rights, nor of basic human rights standards recognized in both Chinese and international law. “Let us be absolutely clear: Tibetan protests continue not because China is hosting the Olympics. Tibetan protests continue not as a result of foreign influence. Tibetan protests began and continue for one reason: in spite of what the Chinese government has written in its laws, in practice it has created an ethnic autonomy system that denies fundamental rights to ethnic minorities. This could not be more clear than it has become in the last several weeks, and the time for change is now. “Protest activity has included instances of rioting resulting in destruction of property and death of Tibetans and non-Tibetans alike. This is unacceptable in any context. Most protest activity, however, while at times disorderly, has been non-violent. The Chinese government’s reaction, however, has revealed a level of hostility toward Tibetans not seen in decades, and has heightened fears for the Tibetan people. “The Chinese government would do well to consider a number of concrete steps to address the current crisis. I would ask, Madame Speaker, that a list of such steps, prepared by the staff of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, be submitted for the record [this document included below]. “I would urge all my colleagues and the general public to take full advantage of the Commission’s analysis not only of events in Tibetan areas, but across China. We cannot let recent events distract us from abuses of law and fundamental rights of the Uighur people of China’s Xinjiang province and other areas of China, and of the Han Chinese themselves. The Commission monitors and reports on human rights and rule of law developments in China on an ongoing basis, and I encourage all frequently to visit the Commission’s website—www.cecc.gov—to subscribe to the on line newsletter, and use the Commission’s work to remain up-to-date on developments in China. “Finally, the resolution of Tibetan grievances can occur only with direct talks between the Chinese government and the Dalai Lama. Moreover, as China plays an increasingly important role in the international community, other countries will appropriately assess China’s fulfillment of the commitments it has made in both Chinese and international law, including legal and constitutional commitments to ethnic minorities. The international spotlight will remain long after the closing ceremonies of the Olympic Summer Games. We hope that the Chinese government will welcome such attention with a full commitment to openness, and to the implementation of basic human rights.” Click here to view Rep Levin Speaking on the House Floor The Congressional Executive Commission on China The Congressional-Executive Commission on China, Chaired by Rep. Sander Levin, consists of nine Senators, nine members of the House of Representatives and five senior Presidential Administration officials. Its mandate it to monitor human rights, including worker rights and the development of the rule of law in China, as well as maintain a database of information on Chinese prisoners. The Commission recently held a hearing on the “Impact of the 2008 Olympics on Human Rights and the Rule of Law in China.” Mr. Levin and former Rep. Doug Bereuter initiated the idea of creating the Congressional-Executive Commission on China and it was formally established in 2000 as part of the legislation to grant China Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) when China entered the World Trade Organization. Mr. Levin has served on the Commission since its inception. For more information and updates on the situation in Tibet, members of the public are encouraged to visit the Commission’s website, www.cecc.gov, and subscribe to the Commission’s on-line newsletter. ADDENDUM to Floor Statement of Representative Sander Levin Chairman, Congressional-Executive Commission on China April 8, 2008 Addressing Tibetan Protests Distinguish between peaceful protestors and rioters, honor the Chinese Constitution’s reference to the freedoms of speech and association, and do not treat peaceful protest as a crime; Provide a detailed account of Tibetan protest activity in each location where such activity took place; Provide details about each person detained or charged with a crime, including each person’s name, the charges (if any) against each person, the name and location of the prosecuting office (“procuratorate”) and court handling each case, and the name of each facility where a person is detained or imprisoned; Allow access by diplomats and other international observers to the trials of people charged with protest-related crimes; Allow international observers and journalists immediate and unfettered access to Tibetan areas of China; Ensure that security officials fulfill their obligations under Articles 64(2) and 71(2) of China’s Criminal Procedure Law to inform relatives and work places (monasteries in the case of monks) where detainees are being held; Encourage and facilitate the filing of compensation suits under Chinese law in cases of alleged wrongful arrest, detention, punishment and other official abuses during the recent protests; Permit international observers to monitor closely the implementation of China’s new Regulation on Open Government Information, which comes into force on May 1, 2008, with special emphasis on implementation in Tibetan areas. Strictly enforce the Regulations on Reporting Activities in China by Foreign Journalists During the Beijing Olympic Games and the Preparatory Period, with special emphasis on access to and in Tibetan areas of China. Commence direct talks between the Chinese government and the Dalai Lama. (####)
04.08.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin spoke on the House floor tonight in support of House Resolution 1077, “Calling Upon Chinese Government to End Crackdown in Tibet and Begin Substantive Dialogue with the Dalai Lama.” The resolution calls on China to end its crackdown in Tibet; enter into a substantive dialogue directly with the Dalai Lama; allow independent monitors, journalists and medical personnel into Tibet; and release all Tibetans who were arrested for non-violently expressing their political views. Rep. Levin is the Chair of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China (more information on the CECC follows). Following are Rep. Levin’s full remarks, as prepared for delivery: “Chinese law includes protections for the distinctive culture, language and identity of ethnic minority citizens. China’s Regional Ethnic Autonomy Law guarantees ethnic minorities the ‘right to administer their internal affairs.’ More specifically, the term ‘regional ethnic autonomy,’ as the law itself defines it, ‘reflects the state's full respect for…ethnic minorities’ right to administer their internal affairs.’ Madame Speaker, China in recent weeks has reflected anything but “the state’s full respect” of ethnic minority rights, nor of basic human rights standards recognized in both Chinese and international law. “Let us be absolutely clear: Tibetan protests continue not because China is hosting the Olympics. Tibetan protests continue not as a result of foreign influence. Tibetan protests began and continue for one reason: in spite of what the Chinese government has written in its laws, in practice it has created an ethnic autonomy system that denies fundamental rights to ethnic minorities. This could not be more clear than it has become in the last several weeks, and the time for change is now. “Protest activity has included instances of rioting resulting in destruction of property and death of Tibetans and non-Tibetans alike. This is unacceptable in any context. Most protest activity, however, while at times disorderly, has been non-violent. The Chinese government’s reaction, however, has revealed a level of hostility toward Tibetans not seen in decades, and has heightened fears for the Tibetan people. “The Chinese government would do well to consider a number of concrete steps to address the current crisis. I would ask, Madame Speaker, that a list of such steps, prepared by the staff of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, be submitted for the record [this document included below]. “I would urge all my colleagues and the general public to take full advantage of the Commission’s analysis not only of events in Tibetan areas, but across China. We cannot let recent events distract us from abuses of law and fundamental rights of the Uighur people of China’s Xinjiang province and other areas of China, and of the Han Chinese themselves. The Commission monitors and reports on human rights and rule of law developments in China on an ongoing basis, and I encourage all frequently to visit the Commission’s website—www.cecc.gov—to subscribe to the on line newsletter, and use the Commission’s work to remain up-to-date on developments in China. “Finally, the resolution of Tibetan grievances can occur only with direct talks between the Chinese government and the Dalai Lama. Moreover, as China plays an increasingly important role in the international community, other countries will appropriately assess China’s fulfillment of the commitments it has made in both Chinese and international law, including legal and constitutional commitments to ethnic minorities. The international spotlight will remain long after the closing ceremonies of the Olympic Summer Games. We hope that the Chinese government will welcome such attention with a full commitment to openness, and to the implementation of basic human rights.” The Congressional Executive Commission on China The Congressional-Executive Commission on China, Chaired by Rep. Sander Levin, consists of nine Senators, nine members of the House of Representatives and five senior Presidential Administration officials. Its mandate it to monitor human rights, including worker rights and the development of the rule of law in China, as well as maintain a database of information on Chinese prisoners. The Commission recently held a hearing on the “Impact of the 2008 Olympics on Human Rights and the Rule of Law in China.” Mr. Levin and former Rep. Doug Bereuter initiated the idea of creating the Congressional-Executive Commission on China and it was formally established in 2000 as part of the legislation to grant China Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) when China entered the World Trade Organization. Mr. Levin has served on the Commission since its inception. For more information and updates on the situation in Tibet, members of the public are encouraged to visit the Commission’s website, www.cecc.gov, and subscribe to the Commission’s on-line newsletter. ADDENDUM to Floor Statement of Representative Sander Levin Chairman, Congressional-Executive Commission on China April 8, 2008 Addressing Tibetan Protests Distinguish between peaceful protestors and rioters, honor the Chinese Constitution’s reference to the freedoms of speech and association, and do not treat peaceful protest as a crime; Provide a detailed account of Tibetan protest activity in each location where such activity took place; Provide details about each person detained or charged with a crime, including each person’s name, the charges (if any) against each person, the name and location of the prosecuting office (“procuratorate”) and court handling each case, and the name of each facility where a person is detained or imprisoned; Allow access by diplomats and other international observers to the trials of people charged with protest-related crimes; Allow international observers and journalists immediate and unfettered access to Tibetan areas of China; Ensure that security officials fulfill their obligations under Articles 64(2) and 71(2) of China’s Criminal Procedure Law to inform relatives and work places (monasteries in the case of monks) where detainees are being held; Encourage and facilitate the filing of compensation suits under Chinese law in cases of alleged wrongful arrest, detention, punishment and other official abuses during the recent protests; Permit international observers to monitor closely the implementation of China’s new Regulation on Open Government Information, which comes into force on May 1, 2008, with special emphasis on implementation in Tibetan areas. Strictly enforce the Regulations on Reporting Activities in China by Foreign Journalists During the Beijing Olympic Games and the Preparatory Period, with special emphasis on access to and in Tibetan areas of China. Commence direct talks between the Chinese government and the Dalai Lama. (####)
04.04.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin called for swift action in the House of Representatives to approve an extension of unemployment insurance benefits after new data showed that the U.S has lost nearly a quarter million jobs in the first quarter of 2008. Today's Department of Labor employment report showed the number of jobs in the economy dropping for the third consecutive month (declining by 232,000 since December, 80,000 in March alone), and the number of unemployed Americans rising by 434,000 in March (for a total of 7.8 million). The national unemployment rate went from 4.8% to 5.1%. Ways and Means Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the unemployment insurance system, has scheduled a hearing for next Thursday, April 10 to highlight the need to extend unemployment insurance benefits. “The unemployment rate jumped, we lost more than 80,000 jobs last month, and long-term unemployment is at record levels – the President and Congressional Republicans must end their opposition to extending unemployment benefits immediately.” “In the past, extensions of unemployment benefits have come too late. We simply cannot afford to wait any longer while the nation’s economic condition worsens and more jobs are lost. Across the U.S., 1.3 million workers are expected to exhaust their jobless benefits by June, 72,000 of these in Michigan alone. I hope this new report and next week’s hearing will finally provide a catalyst for action to help jobless workers and strengthen our economy.” (####)
04.03.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin (D-MI) today introduced bi-partisan legislation with Rep. Michael Castle (R-DE) to help strengthen procedures to encourage individuals to create advanced medical plans to direct health care decisions during times of medical emergency or serious illness. The bill, The Advance Directive Promotion Act of 2008, is designed to make more Americans aware of advance directives (which include a living will stating an individual’s preference for medical care and a power of attorney for this care) and provide the opportunity for them to discuss them with a physician and ensure they are honored throughout the country. Rep. Levin introduced with Senators Danforth and Moynihan the first Patient Self-Determination Act which became law in 1991. This law required all Medicare and Medicaid provider organizations, including hospitals, nursing facilities, home health agencies, and hospices to provide written information to patients at the time of admission concerning an individual’s right under State law to make decisions concerning medical care, including the right to accept or refuse medical or surgical treatment and the right to formulate advance directives. It also required these organizations to provide written information to patients with respect to advance directives. But even with laws like the Patient Self Determination Act in place, only about 29 percent of Americans currently have a living will. “With our sprawling health care system, the government must create procedures to encourage individuals, their families, and their doctors to discuss the type of medical care they would like to receive well in advance of a crisis situation” said Levin. “We then have a responsibility to ensure that those directives are honored.” AARP and the American Hospital Association (AHA) have endorsed the legislation. “End-of-life planning is an emotionally taxing time for any family, but this bipartisan legislation will help to lessen that burden,” said AARP CEO Bill Novelli. “Additional coverage and education for end-of-life planning will empower individuals to learn about their options and effectively communicate their decisions to loved ones and caregivers. Making advance directives more portable will finally allow these documents to keep up with today’s active older Americans, both at home and on the road. We applaud Reps. Levin and Castle for their leadership on this issue, and we look forward to working with them to pass this vital bill.” “The American Hospital Association and our nearly 5,000 member hospitals are fully behind this timely and needed legislation,” said Rick Pollack, AHA Executive Vice President. “The best way for people to retain control of their medical care as they face serious illness is to record their preferences in advance and share their decisions with their physicians and loved ones. This legislation would help provide people with needed resources and information for having these important discussions and making important health care decisions.” The Advance Directive Promotion Act would: Require those providers that are currently required to provide written information regarding advance directives to also provide the opportunity for patients to discuss advance directives with an appropriately trained professional; Amend the Medicare program so that in the initial preventative physical exam that all beneficiaries receive a discussion about advance directives is included; Require the Agency of Health and Human Services to conduct a national public education campaign to raise public awareness of the importance of planning for care in advance of a medical emergency or serious illness; Establish a national, toll-free information clearinghouse for the public to find out about state-specific information on advance directives, and; Require service providers to honor advance directives validly executed in other states. (####)
04.03.2008	On the first day of the 110th Congress, the New Majority in the House adopted rules that require Members requesting an earmark to disclose in writing the name and address of the intended recipient and the purpose of the earmark, and certify the Member (and his or her spouse) has no financial interest in the request. Rep. Levin is voluntarily publishing all of his requests to provide an additional layer of transparency. The rules of the House require disclosure of only those earmarks that receive funding. A Member request is just the first step in the process. Going forward, each appropriations subcommittee must approve legislation under their jurisdiction for consideration by both the House and the Senate. The competition for project-specific funding is intense, and what project-specific requests might be successful and the final amount that will be appropriated for each project is not known until much later in the year towards the end of the annual budget approval process. Levin Supported Projects These projects represent important local infrastructure investments in homeland security, clean water, education, transportation and targeted community investment. The requests below are listed by Appropriations Subcommittee, in alphabetical order. Except in rare circumstances, which are noted, the policy of Mr. Levin is not to submit project-specific requests for private sector entities. Defense Automation Alley’s Diminishing Manufacturing Sources and Material Shortages (DMSMS) Case Resolution Program. The $5 million requested would significantly reduce the Army’s costs for weapon systems sustainment by developing a center for directing the researching of DMSMS cases, designing engineering solutions and testing alternatives for obsolete parts. This request responds to a longstanding problem of obtaining hard-to-find parts for our military vehicles, especially electronic components for the older vehicles. In some cases, the company that made the original part does not even exist anymore. The entity to receive funding for this project is Automation Alley, a consortium of business, government and education leaders, headquartered in Troy, Michigan. The DMSMS project will be housed at the Delphi Corp. leased laboratory facility in Shelby Township. Dynamometer Facility Upgrade Program at the U.S. Army Tank Automotive Research, Development and Engineering Center, AVL North America. The $4.25 million requested would replace TARDEC’s dynamometer, a machine used to measure torque and rotational speed from which power produced by an engine, motor or other rotating prime mover can be calculated. The current U.S. Army Tank-Automotive Research, Development and Engineering Center (TARDEC) dynamometer facility is outdated and cannot meet the increasing and varied testing requirements of the Army. This upgrade will provide the Army with the ability to evaluate the range of current, interim, and future conventional and hybrid electric power trains and their components. Additionally, this improved dynamometer facility will contribute to a shortened development cycle for new vehicles by allowing for the modeling and evaluation of multiple proposed design solutions in different theoretical battlefield conditions without the necessity to build numerous prototype vehicles. AVL North America of Plymouth, Michigan has significant experience with dynamometer installation. Lawrence Technological University (LTU) in Southfield, Michigan for Vehicle Armor Structure Development and Testing for Future Combat Systems and Joint Light Tactical Vehicle. The $2 million request would be used to build on Lawrence Tech’s work with TARDEC in the full-scale development, testing, and application of innovative (light-weight composite) materials for lightweight vehicle armor. The funding would be used to build an environmental test chamber that will enable full- and partial-scale vehicle and composite armor testing under harsh conditions including salt spray, salt water, solar/UV light, relative humidity, and sad attack in addition to freezing, thawing, and dry heat, could with a broad range of impact, sustained, and fatigue loadings. Mobile Manufacturing and Repair Cell/Engineering Education Outreach Program, Focus: HOPE. A number of studies have determined that DoD and its supporting industrial base are facing an impending shortfall of trained scientists, engineers and technicians in areas critical to national security. This $3 million request is intended to help address a subset of that problem – the production of the next generation of minority engineers and technicians. The program would survey DoD and defense industrial base workforce gaps for manufacturing technologists and engineers over the next 10 years. It would collaborate with partner universities to develop educational modules, teaching aids, and curricula that would help ensure the success of certified manufacturing/machinists and engineers at associates and baccalaureate, as well as graduate levels in engineering topic areas specifically designed to address defense needs. Naval Sea Cadet Corps Operational Funding. The $300,000 increase in the Bush Administration’s FY 2009 request would support this nationally organized, federally funded youth program in cooperation with the U.S. Navy. The program encourages teens ages 11-17 to develop an interest in basic seamanship, foster their leadership abilities, broaden their horizons through hands-on training and guide them to becoming mature young adults. The program instills in every cadet qualities that mold strong character in an anti-drug and anti-gang environment. The Navy League established the Naval Sea Cadet Corps in 1958. Interior/EPA George W. Kuhn Collection System Improvements, Oakland County Drain Commissioner, Michigan. The $1 million requested would help eliminate sewage contributions from older urban areas of Oakland County. The funding is focused on identifying and correcting sewers that have illicit discharges into the storm drains leading to Clinton River and Lake St. Clair. Huron-Erie Corridor Initiative, U.S. Geological Survey’s Great Lakes Science Center. This $750,000 request seeks to restore critical fish spawning and nursery habitats in the Detroit River. The habitat was largely destroyed when this river (along with the St. Clair River) was dredged to accommodate large ships; as a result, fish and wildlife populations and their habitats are impaired in the Detroit River and St. Clair River Areas of Concern. This request would rebuild fish spawning habitat to restore native fish populations and improve and enhance sport and commercial fisheries in the Huron-Erie Corridor. The Huron-Erie Corridor supports the largest sport fishery in the Great Lakes – a $4 billion industry. The program is authorized in the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 2006. Lake Huron to Lake Erie Water Monitoring and Protection Network, Macomb County Health Department. This $1.15 million request would continue and enhance the system of drinking water monitoring at water intakes from Lake Huron to Lake Erie. These monitors alert drinking water system operators to potentially dangerous contaminants from chemical spills and sewage releases upstream. Southeastern Macomb Water Quality Improvement, Macomb County Public Works Commissioner. This $2.75 million request would help upgrade the Chapaton Retention Treatment Basin in St. Clair Shores and improve water quality in the Lake St. Clair watershed. U.S. Geological Survey’s Great Lakes Science Center, U.S. Geological Survey. This $13.25 million request would be used for continuing the Great Lakes Science Center’s long-term monitoring of fish stocks. Energy & Water Clinton River Environmental Restoration, Macomb County Public Works Commissioner. This $100,000 request would initiate a feasibility study on the Clinton River to investigate the operation and control of the flood control weir located at the diversion channel; the structural integrity of the weir; channel banks; and the hydraulic and sediment deposition impacts of the Clinton River. Electronic Dispersal Barriers in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal, Corps of Engineers. This $6.75 million request would be used for the operation of both dispersal barriers and begin construction of the conversion of Barrier 1 into a permanent barrier. The barriers are keeping the Asian carp out of the Great Lakes. George W. Kuhn Drain Project, Office of the Oakland County Drain Commissioner. The $1 million requested would be used for the Kuhn Drain - Red Run Restoration. The funding would be used for eliminating excess flow of storm water into the Kuhn Drain basin. Great Lakes Fishery and Ecosystem Restoration program, Corps of Engineers. This $4.5 million request would be used to plan, implement, and evaluate projects supporting the restoration of the fishery, ecosystem, and beneficial uses of the Great Lakes. Implementing the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair Comprehensive Management Plan, Army Corps of Engineers. This $700,000 request would provide initial funding to the Corps of Engineers’ to initiate restoration projects in Lake St. Clair consistent with Lake St. Clair/St. Clair River Comprehensive Management Plan. This was authorized in the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. Macomb Community College Transportation and Energy Technology. This $500,000 request would help create a 21st Century alternative energy learning environment by updating infrastructure, replacing and adding solar panels, replacing wind-powered generators, and installing emerging energy systems. Preliminary Work of the Army Corps of Engineers to implement the St. Clair River/Lake St. Clair Management Plan, Army Corps of Engineers. This $200,000 request would provide funding to the Corps of Engineers’ investigations account for the Corps to carry out the partnership of Federal and State agencies in the management of the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair watersheds and to develop a strategic implementation plan. Remedial Action Plans (RAP) Committees, Corps of Engineers. This $4 million request would be used to allow the Corps of Engineers to provide technical support to states and local organizations in the development and implementation of Remedial Action Plans in Areas of Concern, including the Clinton River AOC. Military Construction Access Control Point for Detroit Arsenal, Warren, Michigan. This $4.4 million project is required to provide initial security screening for commercial vehicles entering the installation. These facilities are required to provide screening in accordance with the Department of the Installation Access Control Program Standards. Currently, commercial vehicles are forced to enter Detroit Arsenal at the Primary Access Control Point. This gate is the main entrance to the installation and is best suited to handle non-commercial traffic. If this project is not provided, lack of a commercial vehicle entrance that meets current Department of the Army Access Control Standards will degrade the effectiveness of vehicle screening at Detroit Arsenal, especially as BRAC related construction at the installation commences in FY09. This situation could result in increased risk to the safety and security of installation personnel, visitors, and facilities. Commerce, Justice, State Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory, NOAA’s Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory. This $12 million request would be used for a variety of ongoing research including invasive species, climate change, and hydrologic processes. Great Lakes Observing System, Great Lakes Commission. This $3 million request would be used for an intensive monitoring program to provide real-time data about water conditions in the Great Lakes. Macomb County Emergency Operations Center. This $650,000 request would help create a state-of-the-art Emergency Operations Center to support response and recovery efforts in local communities. Funding would go toward communication equipment and technological enhancements, including a secondary dispatch center for the County Sheriff’s Office, audio/visual equipment, a building security system, a generator, and workstations. Macomb County Information Technology. This $1.1 million request would go toward the hardware, software, and equipment for a county-wide video conferencing system that would make use of the high-speed fiber optic network the County has built. South Macomb County Regional Dispatch Consolidation. This $1.25 million request would enable four cities (Eastpointe, Harper Woods, Roseville, and St. Clair Shores) to form a regional police and fire dispatch authority. Consolidation of seven separate dispatch centers under one authority would offer greater efficiency and increase productivity. The project would involve reconfiguration of the dispatch center in Roseville, the purchase of additional dispatch radios, improvements to the 911 phone system, and installation of additional computer terminals. Transportation/HUD Charter Township of Clinton Downtown Development Authority, for streetscape improvements, Clinton Township. This $200,000 request would be used to make streetscape improvements on Gratiot Avenue at the intersections of Gratiot Avenue and 14 Mile Road, Gratiot and 15 Mile Road, and Gratiot and 16 Mile Road. In November 2005, the Clinton Township Downtown Development Authority (DDA) completed a revitalization plan for the Gratiot Avenue corridor in the Township to promote economic development in the downtown area. Charter Township of Royal Oak, for architectural and design phase of a municipal complex and recreation center, Royal Oak Township, MI. This $638,000 request would be used to begin design and engineering on a new Municipal Center for Royal Oak Township. The planned uses for the new facility include offices for the Township Administration and a Recreation and Senior Center. City of Southfield, for construction of Bridge Street Bridge, Southfield, MI. This $2.3 million request would be used to construct and deploy the first ever short span Carbon Fiber Reinforced Polymer (CFRP) Bridge to replace a seriously dilapidated conventional bridge. This project would replace the existing 61 year old steel and concrete single span bridge carrying Beech Road over the Rouge River between Nine Mile and Shiawassee with a new state-of-the-art bridge using Box Beam with an MDOT approved reinforced and pre-stressed with CFRP instead of conventional epoxy coated steel. Covenant House, for Infrastructure Upgrades, Including Emergency Back-Up Generators, Detroit, MI. This $500,000 request would be use by Covenant House Michigan (CHM) to make infrastructure and technology upgrades to its facility, including back-up generators, emergency lighting, wiring upgrades, and computers. CHM provides homeless, runaway and at-risk youth with education and vocational programs as well as other support services to help them toward a path to meaningful and successful adulthood. Detroit Regional Chamber of Commerce, to conduct an alternatives analysis of the US-Canada trade corridor, Detroit, MI. This $250,000 request would be used to conduct an alternatives analysis of the US & Canada trade corridor. This study will evaluate the flow of people and goods through the corridor and develop alternative ways to facilitate movement through the regional infrastructure. Holy Cross Children’s Services, for the Edward J. Overstreet Center for Research Excellence in Child and Family Services, Clinton, MI. This $250,000 request would be used to support activities of Edward J. Overstreet Center for Research Excellence in Child and Family Services, including analysis of data related to children and family services, evaluation of outcomes related to services for children and families and analysis/recommendations related to policies effecting children and families. Lawrence Technological University, for New Generation of Transportation Bridges and Infrastructure Program, Southfield, MI. This $2 million request would be used for Lawrence Technological University in Southfield Michigan to develop A New Generation of Transportation Bridges and Infrastructure that includes the design of new ultra high modulus, high strength concrete (20,000-30,000 psi versus 3,000 psi that is commonly used today), in combination with non-corrosive carbon fiber reinforced polymers (CFRP) for building and reinforcing concrete bridges that will significantly extend their longevity, reduce life-cycle repair and maintenance costs, save taxpayer money, and be substantially safer for motorists. Michigan Department of Transportation, for the rehabilitation of US-24 between 8 Mile Road and 12 Mile Road, Southfield, MI. This $9 million request would be used for rehabilitation of US-24 from 8 Mile Road to 12 Mile Road in Southfield, MI, including patching existing concrete roadway and overlay with asphalt, curb and gutter repairs, ADA sidewalk ramp upgrades, traffic signals, signs, pavement markings, guardrail, and drainage improvements. Oakland County Department of Planning and Economic Development, for the creation of a Business Accelerator as part of the Southeast Michigan Regional Innovation Network, Waterford, MI. The $1.25 million requested would be used to create a specialized 21,000 sq. ft. facility, the OU INC-Troy Wet Lab and Advanced Manufacturing Incubator, offering wet lab and advanced manufacturing incubator space to entrepreneurs utilizing Oakland University’s commercial services, which are provided through the OU INCubator, Oakland University’s SmartZone Business Incubator (“OU INC”). Road Commission for Oakland County, expansion of Southfield Rd., Southfield, MI. This $9.6 million request would be used to reconstruct and expand Southfield Road to a six-lane Boulevard between 10 Mile Road and 11 Mile Road (one mile). Road Commission for Oakland County, signal system upgrade on Lahser Rd., Southfield, MI. This $1.2 million request would be used to make Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) upgrades to the signal system on Lahser Road from 9 Mile Road to 12 Mile Road (3 miles). The signals will be upgraded to SCATS/FAST-TRAC. Suburban Mobility Authority for Regional Transit (SMART), for replacement of bus engines, Detroit, MI. This $8.9 million request would be used to replace the engines in up to 180 buses in the SMART fleet. Replacement of the engines will improve fleet reliability, reduce maintenance costs, and improve passenger safety. The Detroit Zoo, for facilities upgrades to house Academy for Humane Education programs, Royal Oak, MI. This $320,000 request would be used by the Detroit Zoo for facilities upgrades and equipment for the Detroit Zoo’s Academy for Humane Education program. The Detroit Zoo created the Academy for Humane Education (AHE) in 2002 to promote humane education so that children develop life-long interest and appreciation for the important relationship between animals and humans. In 2005, the Zoo presented 177 AHE programs to 4,500 students and adults covering four Southeast Michigan counties. In 2007, the Zoo offered 229 programs to more than 11,000 students and adults in a 10-county area. Programs are offered through outreach initiatives, teacher training, and on-site experiences at the Zoo. United Way for Southeastern Michigan , for Construction of Wheelchair Ramps at Low-Income Households, Detroit, MI. This $400,000 request would be used by United Way to build wheelchair ramps in the homes of disabled individuals who cannot afford to pay for them. The requested funding will enable United Way to build 114 ramps in the 12th Congressional District of Michigan. Warren Parks and Recreation Department, for renovation of the Fitzgerald Recreation Center, Warren, Michigan. This $200,000 request would be used to reopen and renovate the Fitzgerald Recreation Center, located in the south end of Warren, Michigan. This area is in one of the City’s older neighborhoods which needs additional recreation opportunities. The building would be operated as a Senior Center and community building, and would be available for youth and adult programs when the seniors are not using the facility. The building needs extensive updating, including the installation of a handicapped ramp, flooring, refinishing the gym, abatement of asbestos and mold, furnace renovation, and roof work. Financial Services Macomb County Department of Planning and Economic Development, for the creation of a Macomb County Business Accelerator as part of the Southeast Michigan Regional Innovation Network. This $500,000 request would be used by the Macomb County Department of Planning and Economic Development for facilities renovations necessary for the creation of a Macomb County Business Accelerator. The requested funding will be used to make renovations to the interior of an existing facility to house the planned Accelerator, including the partitioning of space, interior refurbishment, and the purchase of equipment. The renovation costs may also include construction of wet lab space and testing facilities. Labor/HHS/Education City of Warren Library, Warren, Michigan. This $180,000 request would help the Warren Library system provide residents with, books, audio-visual, electronic media, materials and services to meet the special needs of the city’s diverse population, especially in the area of children’s literacy materials and programs. Covenant House Michigan’s Mental Health Services to Homeless Youth. This $600,000 request would be accompanied by $400,000 in matching funds to add non-site, dedicated mental health services for at-risk youth. Few facilities in Detroit are designed to meet the needs of homeless youth, who fall through the cracks between childhood and adulthood. This funding would allow CHM to add dedicated mental health services for at risk youth by hiring two mental health nurse practitioners to provide assistance for current CHM residents. These nurses would also help train CHM staff on proper diagnosis and treatment. Family Caregiver Project, Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit. This $400,000 request would enable the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit to create a Family Caregiver Access Network (FCAN) that would provide assessment and support to family caregivers. The services the FCAN project will provide would help relieve the burden of care giving and thus enable families to keep their loved ones at home. FCAN will provide an innovative, replicable model to improve family caregiver health by increasing service usage and avoiding institutionalization. Henry Ford Diabetes Care and Support Program. This $300,000 request would allow Henry Ford Macomb Hospital in Warren to launch a Diabetes Care and Support program. The project will leverage the hospital's electronic medical record and patient website capability to identify patients with diabetes who are most appropriate for the planned interventions and obtain data for patient care. Diabetes care and support interventions including care management, group education sessions, and provider education will be developed and implemented. Macomb Community College Curriculum Development. This $500,000 request would be used by Macomb Community College to develop a curriculum for an Associate of Applied Science degree in Energy Management, with concentrations in wind energy, bio-fuels and materials, solar and geothermal energy, and facilities management for energy efficiency. Graduates would be qualified for both immediate technical jobs and continuing education toward a baccalaureate degree. Oakland Community College Emerging Sectors Program. This $425,000 request would go toward Oakland Community College’s efforts to establish a consortium of educational institutions in Oakland County and southeastern Michigan to support the Emerging Sectors initiative of Oakland County government. The purpose of the initiative is to attract companies with an assurance of full access to training and other education resources to create the skilled workforce needed for these high-wage, high–skill occupations. The educational consortium will work collaboratively to identify existing training assets, assess future training needs of emerging sector companies and model the most effective and efficient credentialing and delivery systems for workforce training and education. Oakland Community College International Education. This $500,000 request would help Oakland Community College develop a national model international education program for community colleges. Traditional international education programs for four-year colleges and universities do not work well in the community college environment. The program being proposed is designed to meet the unique needs of community college faculty and students. A successful program would serve as a pilot program to be expanded to other community colleges. Spaulding Strengthening Social Services to Children at Risk Program. This $400,000 request would allow Spaulding for Children, a children’s welfare agency in Southfield that provides direct services to children, to develop a child welfare education curriculum to train social work students and professionals. The training will be geared towards helping social workers build the skills necessary to properly and effectively handle the challenging and heavy case loads in the child welfare field. The curriculum will be piloted to 120 students, consisting of undergraduate, graduate and social work professionals. United Way Communities of Early Learning Initiative. This $400,000 request would implement United Way’s Communities of Early Learning (CEL) initiative, which has been designed to strengthen and enhance the ability of local communities to provide high-quality care and education to at-risk children up to six years of age. This funding would be used to establish two CEL centers in Warren and one in Oak Park to train and mentor a total of 400 to 600 care and education providers. Funding will also be used to develop evaluation tools to measure the success of those in the program. (####)
04.02.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin today joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in support of landmark legislation that will extend and expand a key initiative to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria around the globe. The Lantos-Hyde U.S. Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Reauthorization was approved by a vote of 308 – 116. “Our nation must be an international leader in the fight against deadly infectious diseases, particularly HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria,” said Rep. Levin. “We must accelerate all efforts against these preventable diseases which kill millions of people every year, destabilizing communities, nations and even entire regions, and exacting a terrible toll in human suffering. “Tuberculosis, a disease that can easily be treated, is responsible for 25% of all preventable deaths in developing countries. And, we have seen the effectiveness of AIDS medicines and prevention programs. We have the ability to leverage a more aggressive long-term movement that holds as a basic premise that economics and geography must not determine your access to life-saving drugs for these terrible diseases.’” In May 2003, on a bipartisan basis, the Congress enacted the U.S. Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act (PL 108-25) – authorizing $15 billion over five years for U.S. contributions to both bilateral and multilateral efforts. It was based on the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), which he unveiled in January 2003. Over the last five years, this program has been critical, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa – for example, having provided life-saving drugs to almost 1.5 million AIDS patients and having promoted successful programs to prevent the spread of the HIV infection. This bill reauthorizes and expands this key initiative over the next five years – authorizing $50 billion. It is a carefully-crafted bipartisan compromise – worked out between House Democrats, House Republicans, and the Bush Administration. In the first five years of the U.S. response to the global HIV/AIDS epidemic, U.S. policy was driven by the urgency of an emergency response. Under this bill, the U.S. will develop and implement strategies to transition from the emergency phase to long-term sustainability that can be maintained by the host countries. The bill’s goals include: by 2013, preventing 12 million new HIV infections; providing life-saving drugs for 3 million AIDS patients; providing medical and non-medical care for 12 million people (including 5 million orphans); and training 140,000 new health care workers. (####)
04.01.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congresswoman Candice Miller (MI-10) and Congressman Sander Levin (MI-12) today urged the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy to include funding in the Fiscal Year 2009 for the Lake St. Clair/St. Clair River Management Plan. Miller and Levin requested $900,000 for implementation of the management plan which is critical to a healthy future for these important waterways. Miller and Levin released the following statements today: “Our magnificent Great Lakes have experienced significant challenges in recent years,” Miller said. “The federal government has a responsibility to fund the Lake St. Clair/St. Clair River Management Plan, which will help protect and preserve these precious waters. Their health has a direct impact on fishing, boating, tourism, and quality of life around the Great Lakes, which are 1/5 of the world’s fresh water supply. I am pleased to work with Rep. Levin and my colleagues to ensure that this important project gets the federal support it so desperately needs.” “We cannot allow the Lake St. Clair Management Plan recommendations to sit on the shelf,” said Rep. Levin. “It is imperative that we make the investments necessary to turn the Management Plan’s recommendations into reality. Lake St. Clair and the Great Lakes are regional and national treasures. All stakeholders at the local, state and federal levels must do everything we can to return the Lakes to their original form. I appreciate Rep. Miller’s partnership as we continue to work together to protect our lakes.” Last year, Rep. Miller, Rep. Levin and Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow worked together to secure an authorization of $20 million to implement the Lake St. Clair Management Plan in the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. Now the authorized funds must be appropriated in a congressional budget. The actual appropriation of these funds will allow the important projects identified in the Management Plan to move forward. Reps. Levin and Miller have also been working on the local level, engaging Lake St. Clair stakeholders at home to protect and restore the Lake. Last month, both representatives addressed the Binational Lake St. Clair Conference, at which local leaders and organizations discussed the implementation of restoration and protection efforts for Lake St. Clair. To view a letter from Reps. Levin and Miller being delivered to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy today, click here. (####)
03.27.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) joined fellow Committee members on a letter urging President Bush to adopt and implement a new strategy for dealing with China’s persistent currency manipulation and other trade issues. In their letter, the members note the adverse impact currency manipulation is having on the U.S.-China trade relationship, specifically on the U.S. trade deficit, retention of American jobs and suppression of U.S. economic growth. To address these problems, the members urge the Administration to “use all available tools at its disposal to address China’s protracted, large-scale intervention in the foreign exchange markets to maintain an undervalued currency.” The letter also notes the impact of China’s currency manipulation on the world economy. The alarming growth in China’s global trade surplus and its staggering foreign exchange reserves demonstrates the depth of the problem and adds further urgency to a new trade policy vis-à-vis China. The attached text calls on the Bush Administration to break from their failed approach of “quiet diplomacy” and implement a new strategy to engage China in the international community. The new strategy incorporates the following components: Strengthen U.S. leadership in the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Take action in the World Trade Organization (WTO) Initiate special negotiations with key countries Enforce existing U.S. trade and exchange rate laws In closing the letter to President Bush, the members note the United States’ role in developing the international economic rules that govern existing bodies such as the IMF and WTO. The members impress upon the Administration the need for the U.S. to continue to play a leadership role, stating “The United States has the opportunity to lead the community of nations in ensuring compliance with those vital rules. The Executive branch is in the best position to provide this leadership and has the tools it needs to do so.” The communication does not rule out the possibility of legislative action by Congress, stating “If the Administration is unable or unwilling to do so, Congress will take action, if necessary, to ensure the integrity of the international economic system and to guard against international economic instability.” Please click here to view a PDF of the letter with signatures: (####)
03.19.2008	(Harrison Township, MI)- Congressman Sander Levin addressed the 4th Binational Lake St. Clair Conference today, discussing his efforts to restore and protect Lake St. Clair. The conference, sponsored by the Great Lakes Commission, is a gathering of resource managers, local officials, elected representatives, citizens’ groups, business representatives, local residents and members of the news media with an interest in the Lake St. Clair watershed. “The international community needs to marshal all of its resources to bring the needs of Lake St. Clair and the Great Lakes to the attention of Washington,” said Rep. Levin. “Wherever you live, whatever your party affiliation—Lake St. Clair and the Great Lakes need to be sustained as the national and international treasures they are. All stakeholders must do everything we can to return the Lakes to their original form.” In his remarks, Congressman Levin noted that, due in part to federal, state, and local governments working in tandem with other stakeholders, water quality in Lake St. Clair has improved in recent years. However, Rep. Levin warned, continued progress is threatened by cuts in federal funding by the Bush administration. The Clean Water Revolving Fund is one of the most effective environmental programs ever, providing millions of dollars in low interest loans for water infrastructure projects benefiting Lake St. Clair. However, under the Bush Administration, the program has been cut repeatedly, with Michigan’s allotment reduced 58% since 2002. The Bush Administration’s initial 2009 budget proposes cutting Michigan’s Clean Water funding further. Congressman Levin noted that despite the president’s opposition, progress has been made on behalf of Lake St. Clair in Washington. For example, Rep. Levin, Rep. Miller and Sen. Levin and Sen. Stabenow were able to have $20 million for Lake St. Clair restoration projects authorized in the Water Resources Development Act passed last year. The goal of the two-day Binational Lake St. Clair Conference, sponsored by the Great Lakes Commission, is to review the status of environmental management efforts in the U.S. and Canadian Lake St. Clair watershed. The focus of this year's conference is implementing restoration and protection efforts for Lake St. Clair. (####)
03.12.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today approved a resolution to strengthen congressional ethics enforcement by creating a new Office of Congressional Ethics. The resolution passed by a vote of 229-182. The resolution (H.Res. 895) will bring greater accountability and transparency to the ethics enforcement process by creating an independent office, comprised of individuals who are not Members of Congress, to review alleged Congressional ethics violations. “In its first year, the New Congress has made many improvements in the way the House conducts its business,” said Rep. Levin. “We’ve adopted rules to increase transparency and accountability to the ethics process. We’ve adopted the most sweeping lobbying reform measure since Watergate to help end the tight-knit relationship between lobbyists and lawmakers. Today we take another step by strengthening congressional ethics enforcement with the first independent body to investigate ethics allegations.” The Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE) will be led by a panel of six board members appointed jointly by the Speaker of the House and the House Minority Leader. The Speaker will nominate three OCE members subject to concurrence of the Minority Leader, and the Minority Leader will nominate three OCE members subject to concurrence of the Speaker. To avoid conflicts of interest, current House members and lobbyists are ineligible to serve on the board. The panel will have the authority to review allegations of ethics violations and, if the violation are found to have merit, will turn the complaint over the existing House Ethics committee, which will be required to act on the allegations. Public interest groups, including Cause Common Cause, U.S. PIRG, Michigan PIRG and Democracy 21 strongly support the resolution. (####)
03.11.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Levin Votes to OverriThe House of Representatives today attempted to override the President’s veto of the 2008 Intelligence Authorization bill (H.R. 2082). The President vetoed the bill over a provision that sought to extend to U.S. intelligence agencies the current prohibitions in the Army Field Manual against waterboarding and other torture. While a majority of Members voted to override the president’s veto, the House fell short of the two-thirds vote necessary to override the veto by a vote of 225-188. “The U.S. must stand as a beacon for the proper conduct on the battlefield and, as General Petreaus has stated, techniques like waterboarding are ‘inhumane and not necessary to produce results,’” said Rep. Sander Levin. “To do otherwise is morally wrong, detrimental to our international standing and places our own troops in greater danger.” Just last month, the CIA for the first time publicly acknowledged that CIA personnel had indeed waterboarded terrorism suspects. Under current law, military personnel are already prohibited from using waterboarding, inducing hypothermia, sexually abusing prisoners and other techniques that are specifically banned by the Army Field Manual relating to the treatment of prisoners. The provision included in the Intelligence Authorization bill would extend these rules to the CIA and other intelligence agencies. President Bush vetoed the bill over this provision March 8. The House originally adopted the conference report on the 2008 Intelligence Authorization by a vote of 222-199. The Senate adopted the conference report by a vote of 51-45.de Veto to End Waterboarding by CIA (####)
03.07.2008	(Washington D.C.)- A new jobs report released by the U.S. Department of Labor today showed that the national economy shed 63,000 jobs in February. The private sector lost 101,000 jobs, the largest decline since March of 2003. In light of this report, Congressman Sander Levin renewed his call to extend unemployment insurance benefits today, issuing the following statement: “This massive jobs loss, the largest decline in five years, further underscores the need for additional steps to stimulate the economy including an extension of unemployment benefits. Fewer jobs means it is more difficult for the unemployed to find work before their unemployment benefits expire. “The president and Congressional Republicans continue to ignore the fact that long-term unemployment remains twice as high as it was during the last recession. Across the U.S., 1.3 million workers will exhaust their jobless benefits in the first half of this year, 72,000 of these in Michigan alone. “Economists widely agree that extending unemployment benefits is one of the best approaches available to stimulate our economy, as it puts resources into the hands of people who need it and will spend it immediately. In the past, extensions of unemployment benefits have come too late. Once again, the clock is ticking away while Republicans refuse to act, our economy continues its decline and more and more Americans find themselves out of work. We must act to help jobless workers and stimulate our economy through an extension of unemployment benefits now.” (####)
03.05.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to strengthen mental health care and reduce barriers to treatment in the current health care system. H.R. 1424, The Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act, was approved by a vote of 268-148. The legislation permanently reauthorizes and expands the Mental Health Parity Act of 1996 to make mental health coverage and substance addiction treatment more accessible and affordable. “When only 18% of Americans with a diagnosable mental illness are receiving the treatment they need, we know the current system is inadequate,” said Rep. Levin. “This legislation seeks to eliminate the obstacles to mental health and substance addiction treatment so that the day-to-day reality matches our intention when we passed the Parity law in 1996 and people are getting the care they need.” Under the current system, a person with health insurance coverage seeking mental health services may have to wait months to get an appointment with a practitioner in his or her insurance plan’s network, or have to pay excessively high out-of-pocket costs for mental health care. This legislation prohibits health insurance companies that offer mental health benefits from requiring beneficiaries to pay more out-of-pocket than they would pay for physical and surgical health benefits. The bill also requires insurance companies that cover mental health benefits to cover the entire spectrum of disorders so that treatment for conditions like substance abuse will be covered. “The barriers to access to mental health care are painfully clear to patients, their families, and their doctors and this legislation takes the specific steps necessary to remedy them,” said Rep. Levin. “People experiencing severe mental illnesses routinely exceed the number of allowable visits to a health care provider, leading to financial hardship or insufficient levels of care. This legislation seeks to eliminate discrimination, financial hardship and insufficient levels of treatment in our health care system.” (####)
02.27.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed legislation to invest in clean, renewable energy and increased energy efficiency. The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act was approved by a vote of 236-182. The legislation provides tax incentives for renewable electricity, energy and fuel, as well as for plug-in hybrid cars and energy efficient homes, buildings and appliances. Over time, these incentives will create jobs and help consumers and businesses save billions of dollars on energy bills. “This legislation provides a balanced, responsible and long-term approach to addressing energy costs, the challenges of climate change and energy security,” said Rep. Levin. “The bill will also create jobs as companies invest in new technologies and products, and see their energy costs reduced.” The legislation includes provisions authored by Rep. Levin to expand the tax credit available to gas stations that install E85 fuel pumps and to provide tax incentives for appliance manufacturers to produce more energy efficient products. Cumulatively, consumers will save $33 million per year in utility costs and $360 million over the life of super-efficient appliances. The provision will also create jobs as manufacturers invest in production of these appliances here in the U.S. Additionally, the Act repeals $18 billion in unnecessary tax subsidies for multinational oil and gas companies. The vote comes shortly after the big five oil companies recently reported record profits for 2007, with ExxonMobil earning $40.6 billion—the largest corporate profit in American history. “At a time when a single oil company is reporting annual earnings of more than twice the ten year cost of this bill, it is absurd to argue that the oil and gas industry needs to be subsidized by the American taxpayer,” said Rep. Levin. “By rolling back just a portion of the tax breaks for big oil, we can make enormous strides toward solving this nation’s energy challenges and lowering consumer energy costs.” (####)
02.20.2008	Roseville/Oak Park, MI- Congressman Sander Levin held two public meetings with senior citizens today to discuss the state of the economy and outline details of the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act, the bipartisan economic stimulus package enacted February 13. Congressman Levin held the meetings at senior centers in Roseville and Oak Park. At the events, Congressman Levin provided important information for seniors, disabled veterans and workers that are not normally required to file income tax returns to help those individuals receive tax rebates to which they are entitled under the Act. Unless they take action, many of these individuals will not receive a rebate. “Many seniors, disabled veterans and workers that do not normally file federal income tax returns are eligible for rebates,” said Rep. Levin. “While these individuals may not normally file returns, it is vital that anyone that believes they are eligible for a rebate file a return this year because if they do not, they will not receive their rebate. We want to ensure that everyone eligible for a rebate receives one, especially these individuals that are likely to spend their rebates quickly and most effectively stimulate the economy.” The economic stimulus package provides rebates of up to $600 for individuals ($1,200 for married couples) who owe income tax in 2008. The rebates are phased out for individuals making $75,000 per year or more ($150,000 for married couples). Even those that do not owe income tax but will receive at least $3,000 in earned income, social security benefits or veterans disability pay are eligible for a minimum rebate of $300 ($600 for married couples). These individuals were made eligible for rebates because, while they do not pay federal income tax, they are likely subject to other taxes such as state or local income taxes, sales and other consumer taxes, payroll taxes, or other taxes. (####)
02.14.2008	(Washington D.C.)- House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following joint statement regarding the 2007 annual trade deficit figures released by the U.S. Department of Commerce today: “Our massive trade deficit reflects years of a passive, misguided trade policy by the Bush Administration. Too often, our trading partners are allowed to break international rules, to keep U.S. exports out of their markets, and to engage in unfair trade practices. We need a more assertive approach to the enforcement of our international agreements and trade laws. “For example, China and several other trading partners have been manipulating their currencies to gain an unfair competitive advantage, in a flagrant and longstanding breach of international rules. These illegal practices have been estimated to contribute roughly $130 billion to $180 billion to the U.S. trade deficit each year. Due in part to its currency and other unfair trade practices, our bilateral trade deficit with China broke a new record in 2007, at $256 billion (up from $233 billion in 2006). China now accounts for 36 percent of the total U.S. trade deficit. “More generally, the Bush Administration has failed to enforce the commitments our trading partners made as WTO Members. The Clinton Administration filed an average of 11 WTO cases each year. The Bush Administration has filed an average of just three per year. The result has been fewer opportunities for U.S. exporters to sell their goods and services in foreign markets. In the next two months, the Committee will be looking into ways to improve enforcement of our international agreements and our domestic trade laws. “We are pleased that the Administration has improved its enforcement of international rules and U.S. trade laws over the last 15 months, including by beginning to enforce U.S. anti-subsidy laws against imports from China. In addition, several important WTO cases were filed in 2007, and there has been some progress in reducing the trade deficit. But these steps are insufficient. Much more needs to be done to open foreign markets and level the international playing field.” Background The U.S. trade deficit in 2007 was $711.6 billion, according to figures released today by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Before 2004, the U.S. trade deficit never exceeded 5 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) (going back to 1960). Since 2003, the U.S. trade deficit has exceeded 5 percent each year – and stood at 5.1 percent of GDP in 2007. (####)
02.12.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s signing of the economic stimulus package passed by Congress last week (H.R. 5140): “This bipartisan stimulus package is good news for Michigan, as it generates tax rebates for 4.5 million middle- and lower-income Michigan families and injects $3.8 billion into Michigan’s economy.” “Extending unemployment insurance benefits is the next logical step in stimulating the economy. Long-term unemployment is now twice as high as it was during the last recession. “Not only is it important that we assist workers still looking for jobs in this difficult economy, but economists widely agree that unemployment benefits are among the most effective and quickest ways to provide further economic stimulus. States with high unemployment rates like Michigan would particularly benefit from this approach.” (####)
02.11.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement today regarding the passing of U.S. Representative Tom Lantos: “Tom Lantos never forgot for a moment his gratitude for the opportunity given to him by this country and the tragedy of the lost lives and opportunities of the millions of others who did not survive the Holocaust. For those of us privileged to work with him as a colleague and talk with him often personally one-on-one, his love of his work and abiding love of his large family were a constant source of inspiration. My wife Vicki and I join in condolences to Annette and his entire family.” (####)
02.07.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Both chambers of Congress today overwhelmingly approved a bipartisan economic stimulus package. The Senate modified the original House legislation which provided rebates to 130 million families to include anyone who receives at least $3,000 in Social Security income, self-employment income or veterans’ disability payments (including payments to survivors of disabled veterans). This is estimated to add approximately 20 million seniors and 250,000 disabled veterans. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) issued the following statement in response to the legislation’s passage: “Quick and bipartisan action is an important first step to address the serious economic challenges facing our nation. “The President’s continued resistance to extending unemployment benefits is unfortunate in the face of the fact that long-term unemployment is now twice as high as it was in the last recession. Not only is it important that we assist workers still looking for jobs in this difficult economy, but unemployment benefits are an effective and quick way to further stimulate the economy. We must learn from past recessions when we waited far too long to extend unemployment and act now.” (####)
02.07.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives voted today 354-58 in favor of the College Opportunity and Affordability Act (H.R. 4137). The legislation builds on Congress’ efforts to make college more accessible and affordable. “A college education continues to be the best pathway to a good paying job, and having a well-educated workforce is crucial to our nation’s economic success,” said Rep. Sander Levin, who voted in favor of the legislation. “But in just the last five years, tuition and fees at public colleges have grown 31 percent, and many are finding a college degree out of reach. All qualified students that desire a university degree should have the opportunity to earn one, and this legislation will help make higher education more accessible.” The bill would address rising tuition prices by encouraging colleges to rein in price increases, ensuring that states maintain their commitments to higher education funding, allowing students to receive Pell Grant scholarship aid year round, and providing students and families with consumer-friendly information on college pricing, the factors driving tuition increases and tools to manage rising text book costs. The legislation also includes increased college aid for veterans, military families, low-income and minority students. H.R. 4137 also further strengthens provisions to avoid conflicts of interest in student loan programs, simplify the federal student aid application process and provide vital consumer protections on federal and private student loans. The legislation is the second major step that the new majority in Congress has taken to make college more affordable and accessible for all qualified students. Last year, Congress enacted into law a $20 billion increase in college financial aid over the next five years, the largest increase in student aid since the G.I. Bill of 1944. (####)
01.31.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The Social Security Administration (SSA) notified Congress late yesterday that the agency would suspend some parts of a controversial proposed regulation that would sharply restrict appeal rights for severely disabled individuals applying for benefits. Under the proposed regulation, severely disabled persons would have been denied access to over $2 billion in Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits over the next ten years – not because their disabilities were not severe enough, but because they could not successfully navigate the complex new procedural requirements established by the proposed rule. Those denied would also have lost access to Medicare and Medicaid benefits. “We should be looking for ways to improve, not complicate, the current disability system,” said Rep. Sander Levin, House Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee member. “It is good that they got the message and won’t be putting up additional roadblocks. Our immediate priority is making sure SSA has enough disability claims examiners and judges to dramatically reduce the backlog of unprocessed claims.” The proposed regulation engendered a strong outcry from Congress and advocacy organizations. A letter objecting to the regulation was sent in December by eleven House Committee and Subcommittee chairs. Letters objecting to the proposal were also sent by the Senate Finance Committee and other Senate leaders, and almost 500 comments were filed on the regulation, primarily in opposition. Other proposed Social Security reforms from the Bush Administration could similarly threaten benefits for disabled Americans. The Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee will continue to provide close oversight of all proposed changes. (####)
01.29.2008	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives today overwhelmingly approved a bipartisan economic stimulus package. The Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act passed by a vote of 385-35. Congressman Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) issued the following statement in response to the legislation’s passage: “Yesterday, in this very chamber, the president said ‘our economy is undergoing a period of uncertainty.’ For millions of people in this country, our economic difficulties are very, very certain indeed. “Unemployment is rising significantly. Long-term unemployment is now twice as high as it was in the last recession. And in Michigan, over 72,000 will exhaust their jobless benefits in the first half of this year. “The stimulus package announced today is an important, bipartisan first step. But economists widely agree that extending unemployment insurance is one of the most stimulative approaches that can be undertaken, as it puts money into the economy immediately. In the past, extensions of unemployment benefits have come too late. The time for action on extension is here and now.” (####)
01.28.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak), chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s final State of the Union Address: “While the bipartisan stimulus package referenced by the President is an important first step, he needed to sound a much a stronger sense of urgency about the need to change course to address our economic challenges here at home as well as the need for a more vigorous trade policy so important to U.S. workers and businesses competing in the global economy.” (####)
01.24.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) issued the following statement in response to today’s tentative agreement by the Bush administration, Speaker Pelosi and Minority Leader Boehner on an economic stimulus package: “The economic stimulus package announced today is an important, bipartisan, first step to address the serious economic challenges facing our entire nation. I strongly support the expanded tax rebate provisions that will provide tax relief to 117 million families—35 million more working families than the President’s proposal. “Yet we must more fully address the economic insecurity felt by so many families. I will actively seek bipartisan support of an extension of unemployment insurance. What has been seriously overlooked by the President and Congressional Republicans is that long-term unemployment is now twice as high as it was prior to the last recession and that unemployment insurance is the quickest way to get money into the hands of families that need it and will spend it and stimulate the economy.” (####)
01.23.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) issued the following statement in response to House Republicans blocking of an override of President Bush’s veto of an expansion of the federal S-CHIP program today: “The question of whether the federal government is finally going to do more to provide health coverage to children who need it is not going to go away. This is not an issue of partisan politics. It’s not a complicated issue either. It’s simply a matter or doing what’s right. “No American child should be without access to decent health care. This is especially true given the worsening economic conditions that are battering Michigan and every other state. Rising unemployment results in more American families losing their health insurance. “A new study by the Joint Economic Committee underscores the fact that between 700,000 and 1.1 million additional children, 35,000 in Michigan alone, will enroll in Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Programs each year due to slowing employment growth. But state budgets have been hard hit by the economic downturn. They don’t have the resources to provide health care coverage to millions of kids that already need it, let alone all the new children who will need help due to the economic downturn. “That’s why it is so disappointing that a small number of House Republicans prevented an override of the President’s veto of S-CHIP legislation today.” The legislation vetoed by President Bush provided a $35 billion expansion of the S-CHIP program and would have provided health care coverage to 10 million children. While a vast majority of the House and greater than two-thirds, veto proof majority of the Senate support S-CHIP expansion the House fell just 15 votes short of the two-thirds threshold needed to override the president’s veto. The final House vote was 260-152 in favor of the override. (####)
01.18.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s address on the need for economic stimulus today: "The willingness of the Bush Administration to work with both Republicans and Democrats in the Congress on an economic stimulus package is both welcomed and vital. If we stay focused on the principle that an economic stimulus package should be timely, targeted and temporary, we can reach bi-partisan agreement on the details and move forward quickly to provide relief where it is needed most. “The President referred today to ‘a risk of a downturn,’ but millions of families including those in Michigan have already been experiencing a downturn in their economic security. That’s why economic experts agree that it is most effective to put more resources in the hands of individuals and families struggling to meet rising costs who will spend that money right away and boost the economy immediately. “It is also vital that we consider the needs of states like Michigan that have been particularly hard hit by the nation’s manufacturing jobs crisis.” (####)
01.17.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today applauded the Bush Administration’s release of $450 million in energy assistance to help families struggling to keep their heat on throughout the winter. “The Bush Administration has finally responded to calls from Congress to release emergency funding under the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program,” said Rep. Levin. “With oil and natural gas costs skyrocketing, many families, individuals with disabilities and senior citizens are finding their home energy costs have become unaffordable. These funds will help those struggling to keep their heat on through the duration of the winter.” Congress appropriated a total of $2.6 billion in LIHEAP funding in the budget recently enacted – a $400 million increase over last year. Levin and other members of the Northeast/Midwest Coalition of Members of Congress fought vehemently for the increase during budget negotiations. Over $27 million of the funds appropriated will be used in Michigan. The Energy Information Administration (EIA) estimates that this winter U.S. households can expect to pay between 10 to 22 percent more for heating fuels than during the 2006-2007 winter. In Michigan, 403,971 households used the program last winter, and this year the need has increased even further. “With rising energy costs we must make this effective energy assistance program available to more families in need,” said Levin. (####)
01.07.2008	(Washington D.C.) - Area residents are taking part in a national program to preserve United States veterans’ stories for future generations. The Southfield Veterans Commission (SVC) is taking the lead in collecting veterans’ histories as part of the Library of Congress Veterans History Project, a program to preserve first-hand accounts from America’s wartime veterans and civilians that supported the armed forces during war time. The Veterans History Project is collecting audio- and video-recorded oral histories, along with other first-hand materials such as memoirs, photographs, diaries and letters. “When I first heard about this program, I knew it was something in which our Commission would want to engage,” said SVC Chairman Daniel Brightwell. “It’s exciting to contribute the stories of folks right here in Southfield to a fantastic national program. These veterans provide incredible first hand accounts of landmark events in American history, and it’s important that we keep these stories alive for future generations.” After receiving supporting materials from Congressman Levin’s office, the Southfield Veterans Commission began video recording 30 minute interviews with veterans on November 14th for submission to the Library of Congress. The SVC is collecting histories each Wednesday afternoon at the Southfield Public Library. The Commission’s goal is to have collected 50 histories in the next six months, a goal they expect to exceed at their current rate. The next recorded interviews will take place at 1:30 and 2:45 p.m. Wednesday, January 9th in the conference room of the Southfield Public Library. News media is welcome to attend. “These veterans’ stories are part of America’s story,” said Rep. Levin. “It is important that present generations always understand that our nation’s greatness and freedom are a gift to us built from the honor and sacrifice of those who came before. We can never fully repay our veterans for their service and sacrifice, but we pay tribute by preserving history and we are educated by remembering it.” Any wartime military veteran or civilian who supported troops in wartime that would like to have his or her story recorded by the Southfield Veterans Commission, or anyone that can provide time or video recording equipment to the SVC can contact Daniel Brightwell at 248-796-4VET (248-796- 4838) or southfieldvets@cityofsouthfield.com. Other veterans groups, schools or any individuals or organizations that would like to take part in the Veterans History Project independently of the SVC can contact Congressman Sander Levin’s office at 202-225-4961 or email libby.benton@mail.house.gov. (####)
01.03.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Lianna Stroster of St. Clair Shores was among a small number of students asked to return to Washington, D.C. for a second semester as a Congressional Page. Congressional Pages study while they are in D.C. and work on the U.S. House Floor while Congress is in Session. “My experience as a page has been challenging and extremely educational,” said Stroster. “I have really enjoyed my classes and working on Capitol Hill, and am grateful for the opportunity to come back for a second semester.” “It has been terrific seeing Lianna excel at her work in Congress,” said Rep. Sander Levin, who sponsored originally sponsored Stroster when she first applied for the program. “She is knowledgeable about Floor proceedings, the Members, and always has a positive upbeat attitude. The Congressional Page Program gives high school students a first hand look at how our government operates and how federal policy is made in our nation's capital.” Stroster, a junior, will return to school next fall for her senior year at Lake Shore High School in St. Clair Shores, where she has served as the International Diabetes Youth Ambassador, the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation Advocate and president of the Junior State of America (JSA). Stroster started her own JSA chapter at Lake Shore after attending the JSA summer school program at Princeton University. She has also played on the soccer and basketball teams. (####)
12.20.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The federal budget for 2008 approved by Congress yesterday includes funding for Macomb County Emergency Management and Communications. The County of Macomb is in the process of completing an 800 MHz radio infrastructure system that will provide universal communications ability to all police, fire and EMS emergency first responders throughout the County. This $13.2 million commitment by Macomb County must be supplemented by the local communities needing equipment to operate on the new system. This is the second time the federal government has provided funding for local governments to purchase the needed equipment. “The ability for first responders to have seamless communications is essential to our safety and emergency response,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “A partnership between the local, county and federal governments is necessary to make this system fully operational.” Background Included in the FY 2008 budget are the following: $987, 000 for interoperable communications in Southern Macomb (Clinton Township, Mt. Clemens, Roseville, Fraser, Sterling Heights, St. Clair Shores, and Eastpointe) requested by Rep. Sander Levin $669, 750 for the Department of Macomb County Emergency Management and Communications requested by Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow. $352,500 for interoperable communications in Northern Macomb requested by Rep. Candice Miller. (####)
12.18.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today approved H.R. 3648, the Mortgage Debt Forgiveness Relief Act, to help address the subprime lending crisis and ongoing turmoil in the housing market. The Senate approved H.R. 3648 on December 14th, and today’s vote sends the measure to the President. Included in the bill was a provision authored by Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) to extend the deductibility of mortgage insurance premiums. The provision would allow homeowners who purchase mortgage insurance to deduct their premiums from their taxable income. Home loans backed by mortgage insurance from the Federal Housing Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs and private insurers typically require lower down payments. “Mortgage insurance allows aspiring homeowners to take out safe, stable mortgages with lower down payments and provide an attractive alternative to so-called ‘piggyback’ loans. It levels the playing field among different mortgage options,” said Levin. “Making mortgage insurance more affordable will help millions of families afford the American Dream of homeownership.” Also included in the legislation approved today is a provision that provides relief to families who have lost their homes through foreclosure, or who have negotiated partial forgiveness of their mortgage in order to stay in their homes. Under current law, forgiven mortgage debt is classified as income, and requires that income tax be paid on it. In the case of a foreclosure, individuals would owe income tax on the difference between the outstanding principal on their mortgages and the amount their lenders earn by selling their homes. “It is simply unfair that we send people a tax bill when they lose their home to foreclosure, and this legislation will correct that,” said Levin. The legislation approved by Congress would eliminate this unfair tax retroactively for tax year 2007 through tax year 2009. The deduction of mortgage insurance premiums will be allowed through 2010. Congress has the option to renew these measures in the future. (####)
12.18.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives took final action today on sweeping energy legislation, clearing the measure to be sent to the White House for the President’s signature. The House approved the energy legislation by a strong bi-partisan majority on a vote of 314-100. “After years with no energy plan from Congress, it was critical that the new majority pass this historic legislation,” said Rep. Levin. “This bill represents a genuine sea change in how our country approaches energy security. It is simply not in our long-term security interests to continue to rely on oil imports from the Middle East and other volatile regions of the world. We need to invest in biofuels from the Midwest, not imported oil from the Middle East.” The Energy Independence and Security Act expands the use of American-grown biofuels in transportation to 36 billion gallons by 2022. The measure also sets new energy efficiency standards for appliances, lighting, and buildings, which will save consumers $400 billion through 2030. The legislation also calls for a 40 percent increase in vehicle fuel economy by 2020, the first such increase by Congress in 32 years. It also reforms the existing Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFÉ) rules, which for years have discriminated against manufacturers, including Ford, GM and Chrysler that produce a full line of varying vehicle sizes. Unlike existing law, the new legislation allows the federal government to create a new series of attribute-based standards for different sized vehicles. The fuel economy provisions have the support of auto manufacturers, the United Auto Workers, consumers groups, and the environmental community. “The compromise that has been reached is ambitious, but it has the support of auto manufacturers, the United Auto Workers, consumers groups, and the environmental community,” said Levin of the new fuel efficiency standards. “The fuel economy provisions of the Energy Bill will reduce foreign oil imports, save consumers money at the pump, and result in a fairer CAFÉ program for U.S. vehicle manufacturers.” The United States Senate, which approved the energy bill last week on a vote of 86 to 8, stripped out a key provision that would have required utilities to generate 15 percent of their electricity from renewable sources by 2020. Republicans in the Senate threatened to block the legislation if the renewable electricity standards were not removed. “The Senate Republicans’ removal of the renewable electricity provisions is unfortunate,” said Rep. Levin. “Moving towards renewable energy will help keep mercury out of the Great Lakes and greenhouse gases out of the atmosphere, but it also will help create new industries and jobs here in the United States. These are jobs we need in Michigan.” (####)
12.06.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander M. Levin issued the following statement in support the Energy Independence and Security Act debated on the floor of the House of Representatives today: “All of us know that we can’t continue business as usual. In my home state of Michigan, gas costs over $3 a gallon. Families are struggling with persistently high home heating costs. At the same time, the effects of climate change are becoming more and more pronounced. “The package before the House strengthens our energy security, lowers energy costs, grows our economy, creates jobs, and begins to address global warming. It also bolsters our national security. It is simply not in our long-term security interests to continue to rely on oil imports from the Middle East and other volatile regions of the world. We can’t drill our way out way out of this situation, so we need to try another approach. “In particular, the legislation calls for a 40 percent increase in vehicle fuel economy by 2020. The compromise that has been reached is ambitious, but it has the support of auto manufacturers, the United Auto Workers, consumers groups, and the environmental community. We also reform the existing CAFE mechanism, which for years has discriminated against manufactures, including Ford, GM and Chrysler, that produce a full line of vehicle sizes. The agreement contains anti-backsliding language to help keep small car production here in the United States and protect the jobs of American workers. I am pleased that this bill also begins the work of helping industry reach the higher mileage standards through retooling assistance and incentives such as a new hybrid tax credit.” Congressman Levin’s full remarks follow- Madam Speaker: I support the rule and urge the House to adopt the Energy Independence and Security Act. The basic issue before us is whether we are going to take action to address energy security in this country, or are we going to sit on the sidelines and let American consumers and businesses fend for themselves. All of us know that we can’t continue business as usual. The price of oil stands near $90 a barrel. In my home state of Michigan, gas costs over $3 a gallon. Families are struggling with persistently high home heating costs. At the same time, the effects of climate change are becoming more and more pronounced, yet the United States remains the only industrialized nation in the world that has no plan to address global warming. The package before the House strengthens our energy security, lowers energy costs, grows our economy, creates jobs, and begins to address global warming. It also bolsters our national security. Today we import more than 60 percent of the oil we use. It is simply not in our long-term security interests to continue to rely on oil imports from the Middle East and other volatile regions of the world. We can’t drill our way out way out of this situation, so we need to try another approach. Many of the provisions of this legislation are common sense and will achieve significant energy savings with little or no cost. For example, the bill sets new energy efficiency standards for appliances, lighting, and buildings. Doing so will save consumers and businesses hundreds of billions of dollars over time. This legislation also includes incentives for manufacturers to produce washing machines, refrigerators and dishwashers that push the boundaries of energy and water efficiency, and to build them in the United States. Reducing the energy or water usage of a washing machine may seem like a small thing, but over time and across millions of households, these incentives will produce remarkable reductions in energy and water usage, and consumers will save money on their utility bills. Other sections of this bill will challenge key sectors of our economy. In particular, the legislation calls for a 40 percent increase in vehicle fuel economy by 2020. The compromise that has been reached is ambitious, but it has the support of auto manufacturers, the United Auto Workers, consumers groups, and the environmental community. We also reform the existing CAFÉ mechanism, which for years has discriminated against manufactures, including Ford, GM and Chrysler, that produce a full line of vehicle sizes. The agreement contains anti-backsliding language to help keep small car production here in the United States and protect the jobs of American workers. I am pleased that this bill also begins the work of helping industry reach the higher mileage standards through retooling assistance and incentives such as a new plug-in hybrid tax credit. I also strongly support the renewable electricity portfolio provisions of this bill that require utilities to generate 15 percent of their electricity from renewable sources by 2020. Obviously, this provision will pay environmental dividends. Moving towards renewable energy will help keep mercury out of the Great Lakes and greenhouse gases out of the atmosphere, but it also will help create new industries and jobs here in the United States. There is no reason in the world why the U.S. should not lead the world in the production of wind turbines and solar panels. This bill will help ensure that these jobs are created here in the United States. Our work in this House is about priorities, and the difference in priorities on this bill could not be more clear. I urge all of my colleagues to support this responsible legislation. To view a summary of a the Energy Bill please click here. (####)
12.04.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today in support of a bi-partisan plan advanced to their respective national party committees by Saul Anuzis, member of the Executive Committee of the Republican Party, and Debbie Dingell, member of the Democratic National Committee, to fix our nation’s process for selecting presidential candidates. “I applaud Mr. Anuzis and Mrs. Dingell for bringing a proposal for a fair and rational presidential primary system before their respective national party committees,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “It is long past time to end the stranglehold a small number of small states holds over the selection of our presidential candidates. I have been advocating this inter-regional process since 1986, but the disaster caused by our current system and this year’s front-loaded, frantic, disorganized primary calendar shows we need reform now more than ever. “The inter-regional process spaces out primary dates over several months, requiring candidates to establish themselves in multiple states. At the same time, each primary date will include at least one state from every region in the country, which will ensure that a broad spectrum of Americans' views is accounted for in the selection process. And each presidential election year, different states will be allowed to vote first. The proposal advanced by Anuzis and Dingell based on my legislation ensures that the selection of presidential candidates is fair and ensures that our nominating system occurs over a rational period of time and includes every region of our country.” (####)
11.29.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) announced that Congress has approved $1 million in federal funds for the Center for Innovative Materials Research (CIMR) at Lawrence Technological University in Southfield. The funds will be used for the development and testing of innovative composite materials for lightweight armor to strengthen vehicles and structures. “Innovative materials are playing a growing role in the development of military technologies that protect our troops in the field,” said Rep. Levin. “It is important to develop these cutting-edge technologies here in Michigan because of our strong roots in research and development.” "This latest investment will allow us to test materials under a wide range of simulated climatic conditions,” said Lawrence Tech President Lewis N. Walker. “This important work should help develop better ways to protect our troops and their vehicles, and we anticipate that there may be additional commercial and consumer applications that can help diversify and expand Michigan's economy.” The money for the composite materials was included, at Rep. Levin’s request, in the 2008 Department of Defense funding bill. The House and Senate approved this legislation last month, and President Bush signed the measure into law on November 13. Since 2004, Lawrence Tech has partnered with the U.S. Tank Automotive Research, Development, and Engineering Center (TARDEC) to develop materials to strengthen existing U.S. military structures and vehicles. One important facet of the research effort will be to evaluate the structural capacity of the composite materials under controlled environmental conditions to see how they hold up to salt water, solar/UV light, heat, freezing, thawing, sand, and other conditions. Opened in 2006, LTU’s Center for Innovative Materials Research is a state-of-the-art laboratory for the research, development and testing of carbon fiber composite materials. The Center supports Lawrence Tech’s effort to become a regional leader in applied research of materials and structures, energy, and automotive engineering. (####)
11.16.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives today voted 291-127 in favor of H.R. 3915, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, bipartisan legislation aimed at protecting homebuyers from predatory lending that has led to the recent mortgage crisis across the country. “We cannot ignore skyrocketing foreclosure rates in Michigan and across the nation,” said Congressman Sander Levin. “Adjustable Rate Mortgages, ballooning repayment schemes and abandonment of reasonable qualifying standards for mortgage applicants has led to an unacceptable number of families losing their homes. This crisis threatens the ability of middle class families to afford the American Dream of homeownership.” The legislation is especially critical to Michigan, which the Detroit Free Press reported was fourth in the nation in foreclosures in September and saw foreclosure rates rise 82% from September 2006. According to the Free Press, Wayne County had the fifth highest foreclosure-filing rate among metropolitan areas in the U.S., while Oakland County's filings were up 153%. And the problem could get worse before it gets better. A Government Accountability Office report published last month found that rates of default and foreclosure are likely to increase through the end of 2007 and into 2008. The GAO report indicated that irresponsible, “aggressive lending practices,” such as “mortgages with higher loan-to-value ratios (the amount of the loan divided by the value of the home), adjustable interest rates, limited or no documentation of borrower income or assets, and deferred payment of principal or interest” are behind the increases in default and foreclosure rates. This bill seeks to address these practices and protect consumers by preventing these reckless loans from being made in the first place. H.R. 3915, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2007: Requires lenders to ensure a borrower's ability to repay. The bill establishes a simple federal standard for all home loans: institutions must ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. Lenders would have to determine that a borrower has a "reasonable ability to repay," based on income, credit history, indebtedness and other factors. For refinancing, the bill will require that all loans provide a net tangible benefit to the consumer, barring “junk” lending driven by fees rather than solid economics. Some lending had gotten away from these commonsense basics during the real estate boom, giving rise to risky, exotic mortgages and practices such as "no doc" loans. Prohibits certain unfair lending practices. The bill prohibits financial incentives for subprime loans that encourage lenders to steer borrowers into more costly loans, including the bonuses known as "yield spread premiums" that lenders pay to brokers to inflate the cost of loans. Statistics have shown that many homeowners in the current mortgage crisis received more expensive loans than they qualified for. The bill limits the prepayment penalties charged to borrowers who wish to close out their loans, typically to refinance on more affordable terms. Requires licensing and registration for brokers and bank loan officers. The bill provides for licensing and registration of individual mortgage brokers and registration of bank employees that originate mortgages, as well as the establishment of a Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry (NMLSR). Applicants for State license and registration must furnish information, including fingerprints and personal history and experience and meet minimum standards including pre-licensing education and written tests. This will protect borrowers from unscrupulous lenders who hop from state to state, and impose accountability on brokers and other non-bank lenders that proliferated during the housing boom and made the bulk of subprime loans. Requires additional disclosures for consumers regarding mortgage loans. Under the bill, the lender must disclose the maximum a consumer could pay on a variable rate mortgage, with a warning that payments will vary based on interest rate changes. Lenders must also disclose the total amount of settlement charges, the amount of charges included in the mortgage, the amount the consumer must pay at closing, and the fees paid to a mortgage originator. Many homebuyers did not understand the terms of their mortgages, especially when taking out subprime loans, and these disclosures will give consumers the information they need to make educated choices. Establishes federal minimum requirements while enabling states to impose tougher rules. Federal rule-making and enforcement duties would go to Federal agencies such as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Federal Trade Commission. The bill’s provisions (except for those specifically affecting secondary market liability as set forth narrowly in the bill) will set a floor so that all Americans are protected, but allow states to enact tougher standards. Brings accountability to the secondary market for home loans. Under the bill, participants in the huge secondary mortgage market would for the first time under federal law be liable for ensuring responsible lending. The bill permits consumers to obtain redress directly from firms involved in "securitizing" mortgages, unless the securitizer or assignee has policies in place to only buy the safest (e.g., “prime”) loans, has exercised due diligence in determining that the loan meet federal minimum standards (reasonable ability to repay and net tangible benefits) and has a warranty from the seller of the loans In recent years, home loans increasingly were sliced and diced by firms that bundle and resell mortgages to investors, making it difficult to track who was ultimately responsible for ensuring the soundness of loans. Stronger consumer protections for high-cost mortgages. The bill expands the protections available under federal rules on high-cost loans -- lowering the interest rate and the points and fee triggers that define high cost loans. The bill further enhances consumer protections for “high-cost loans” by: prohibiting practices that increase the risk of foreclosure, such as balloon payments, encouraging a borrower to default, and call provisions, prohibiting excessive fees for payoff information, modifications, or late payments, prohibiting the financing of points and fees, and requiring more pre-loan counseling. Creates the Office of Housing Counseling. The bill establishes an Office of Housing Counseling within HUD to boost homeownership and rental housing counseling. The Office will certify computer programs for consumers to use in evaluating different residential mortgage loan proposals, and spearhead other efforts to broaden the reach of homeownership counseling.
11.16.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives last night fell short of overriding President Bush’s veto of the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. With 277 members voting for the legislation and 141 voting against, the bill did not meet the two-thirds majority threshold necessary to override a presidential veto. The budget bill originally was approved in the House and the Senate with bi-partisan margins. “This budget reflects our priorities – investing in key areas of education, worker training and health care” said Congressman Sander Levin. “The President cannot now hide under fiscal responsibility when he has shown none, adding more than $3 trillion to the national debt.” By way of background, the President’s budget for labor, health and education programs for Fiscal Year 2008 called for a cut of $3.6 billion below last year’s enacted funding levels. Bipartisan majorities in the House and Senate rejected the President’s proposal and approved a modest, responsible 4.3 percent increase (or $6.2 billion) above last year’s enacted funding levels. "The question is simple: Do we want 1.2 million more Americans to have access to community health centers; funding for 1,400 more life-saving medical research grants; College Pell Grants to increase by $325, and 1.5 million more families to receive heating assistance this winter?” said Rep. Levin. “The President needs to work with Congress on a budget that reflects the needs and priorities of America.” To view a full fact sheet on the programs funded by this budget bill please click here. (####)
11.15.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives last night voted 218-203 in favor of H.R. 4156, the Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Act, a bill requiring withdrawal of American combat troops from Iraq. The legislation requires troop redeployment to begin within 30 days of enactment and sets a December 15, 2008 goal for redeployment completion. The legislation provides $50 billion to meet the needs of the troops in the field, but does not provide the $200 billion President Bush requested to continue fighting through the end of his presidency. “The issue with this legislation was straightforward: do we think the President’s Iraq policy is working so well that we should give him another $200 billion to continue it, or do we need a fundamental change in direction?,” said Congressman Sander Levin. “I truly believe we need to change an Iraq policy that is simply not working.” Along with requiring troop withdrawal to begin within 30 days, the bill: Requires the President to provide Congress, within 60 days of enactment, with a plan to complete the redeployment by December 15, 2008; Prohibits deployment of U.S. troops to Iraq who are not fully trained and fully equipped; Changes the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq to: a) diplomatic and force protection; b) targeted counterterrorism operations; and c) limited support to Iraqi security forces; and Includes an extension to all U.S. government agencies and personnel of the current prohibitions in the Army Field Manual against torture (which would effectively end American use of heinous practices such as water boarding and other forms of torture). “Eleven months into the troop surge, progress on political reconciliation continues to be all but non-existent. Meanwhile, 2007 has already been the deadliest year for American troops since the start of the war in Iraq,” said Levin. “Time has shown that whatever small chance there is of the Iraqi factions coming together, it will not happen as long as the U.S. military commitment in Iraq remains open-ended. We need to change course.” (####)
11.09.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives today voted 216-193 in favor of a fiscally responsible tax package to protect more than 23 million families from a tax increase under the alternative minimum tax (AMT). H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007, would ensure that no additional taxpayers pay the AMT this year, while also extending important tax credits and deductions set to expire at the end of 2007. “This legislation reflects the priorities of the new majority in Congress: middle class tax relief, fiscal discipline and tax equity,” said Rep. Sander Levin, a senior member of the tax-writing Ways & Means Committee. “The legislation shields 23 million families from the AMT, and millions of others will benefit from the child tax deduction, property tax relief and college tuition assistance. And this relief is provided with no new borrowing.” H.R. 3996 would: Protect 23 million middle-class families from being hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax Provide 30 million homeowners with property tax relief Help 12 million children by expanding the child tax credit Help 4.5 million families better afford college with the tuition deduction Save 3.4 million teachers money with a deduction for classroom expenses Provide thousands of American troops in combat with tax relief under the Earned Income Tax Credit Other provisions, based on legislation sponsored by Rep. Levin, would extend the Research and Development Tax Credit to promote innovation and create high paying jobs, the deduction on mortgage insurance premiums (which will especially help homeowners struggling as a result of the current housing crisis) and the enhanced deduction for businesses on food inventory donated to food banks. The tax relief provided in H.R. 3996 would be delivered in a fiscally responsible manner. The legislation is fully offset and will not add to the federal deficit or require new borrowing. “We must provide AMT relief for middle class families, but it would be completely irresponsible to provide that relief without paying for it,” said Levin. “For the last six years Congress has said ‘we don’t have to pay for tax cuts,’ leading to a $6 trillion increase in the national debt. It is critical that we provide this tax relief, but also that we do so in a fiscally responsible manner.” The middle-class tax relief contained in H.R. 3996 is paid for in part with a provision authored by Rep. Levin to close a loophole in the tax code allowing investment fund managers to avoid paying income tax on “carried interest” compensation. In exchange for managing their investors’ assets, fund managers often receive a portion of the fund’s profits, or carried interest, usually 20 percent. Currently, fund managers are paying the much lower capital gains rate on this compensation rather than ordinary income tax rates even though carried interest is money earned on a service provided rather than money earned on fund managers’ personal investments. Levin’s provision closes the loophole that allows this practice and clarifies that carried interest is income compensation for services rather than investment income and is subject to ordinary income tax rates. “Congress must ensure that our tax code is fair,” said Levin. “The principle in taxing private investment fund managers or ‘carried interest’ is basic. If you are investing your own money, you should receive the capital gains tax rate; if you are providing the service of managing other people’s money, you should pay the ordinary income tax rate. Investment fund employees should not pay a lower rate of tax on their compensation for services than other Americans.” Levin concluded, “This bill has the right priorities: it brings tax relief to tens of millions of middle class families, it’s paid for, and it makes our tax code more equitable. I am pleased the House has passed this sensible legislation.” (####)
11.08.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives is expected to vote tomorrow on a fiscally responsible tax package to protect more than 23 million families from a tax increase under the alternative minimum tax (AMT). H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007, would ensure that no additional taxpayers pay the AMT this year, while also extending important tax credits and deductions set to expire at the end of 2007. “This legislation stands up for middle class tax relief and tax equity without adding to the deficit and with no new borrowing,” said Rep. Sander Levin, a senior member of the tax-writing Ways & Means Committee. “If enacted, 23 million families will be shielded from the AMT, and millions of others will benefit from the child tax deduction, property tax relief and college tuition assistance.” H.R. 3996 would: Protect 23 million middle-class families from being hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax Provide 30 million homeowners with property tax relief Help 12 million children by expanding the child tax credit Help 4.5 million families better afford college with the tuition deduction Save 3.4 million teachers money with a deduction for classroom expenses Provide thousands of American troops in combat with tax relief under the Earned Income Tax Credit. Other provisions, based on legislation sponsored by Rep. Levin, would extend the Research and Development Tax Credit to promote innovation and create high paying jobs, the deduction on mortgage insurance premiums (which will especially help homeowners struggling as a result of the current housing crisis) and the enhanced deduction for businesses on food inventory donated to food banks. The tax relief provided in H.R. 3996 would be delivered in a fiscally responsible manner. The legislation is fully offset and will not add to the federal deficit or require new borrowing. “We must provide AMT relief for middle class families, but it would be completely irresponsible to provide that relief without paying for it,” said Levin. “For the last six years Congress has said ‘we don’t have to pay for tax cuts,’ leading to a $6 trillion increase in the national debt. It is critical that we provide this tax relief, but also that we do so in a fiscally responsible manner.” The middle-class tax relief contained in H.R. 3996 is paid for in part with a provision authored by Rep. Levin to close a loophole in the tax code allowing investment fund managers to avoid paying income tax on “carried interest” compensation. In exchange for managing their investors’ assets, fund managers often receive a portion of the fund’s profits, or carried interest, usually 20 percent. Currently, fund managers are paying the much lower capital gains rate on this compensation rather than ordinary income tax rates even though carried interest is money earned on a service provided rather than money earned on fund managers’ personal investments. Levin’s provision closes the loophole that allows this practice and clarifies that carried interest is income compensation for services rather than investment income and is subject to ordinary income tax rates. “Congress must ensure that our tax code is fair,” said Levin. “We have to be sure that the lower capital gains tax rate is not being inappropriately substituted for the tax rate on wages and earnings. Investment fund employees should not pay a lower rate of tax on their compensation for services than other Americans. These investment managers are being paid to provide a service to their limited partners, and fairness requires they be taxed at the rates applicable to service income just as any other American worker.” (####)
11.08.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives approved 285-132 a bi-lateral trade agreement with Peru that includes for the first time worker rights and environmental standards fully enforceable like all other commercial provisions. “From this day forward trade policy will never be the same. We have succeeded in placing fully enforceable worker rights and environmental standards on par with all other commercial provisions in a trade agreement for the first time,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “With this dramatic change we are setting U.S. trade policy on a completely new course.” The U.S.-Peru FTA was renegotiated once Democrats became the Majority in Congress to incorporate international labor standards in the trade agreement, enforceable like all other provisions. The standards come right from the International Labor Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and include the freedom of association and the right to organize and bargain collectively, and prohibitions on child labor, forced labor, and discrimination in employment. Also, at the insistence of the Democratic Majority, the Government of Peru has already made changes to their legal structure to incorporate the basic international standards before the vote in Congress. Also, for the first time in a bilateral trade agreement there is a requirement for both countries to abide -- with enforceability like all other provisions -- by international environmental standards (Multilateral Environmental Agreements or MEAs). And the Peru FTA has a groundbreaking provision to prevent importation into the U.S. of logs illegally harvested -- preventing competition based on a degradation of the Amazon. “We have been fighting for a trade policy that shapes globalization to minimize its downsides and spread its benefits more broadly,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Workers with their basic international rights are essential to this equation, and today we have succeeded in setting U.S. trade policy on a bi-partisan course that shares that belief.” You may view Mr. Levin’s last floor statement: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Aqyavo9tMc (####)
11.07.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives today approved a measure to end employment discrimination based on sexual orientation. The bill, H.R. 3996, the Employee Non-Discrimination Act, was approved by a vote of 235-184. The act would prohibit employment discrimination against lesbian, gay and bisexual Americans. Similar legislation has been introduced in the House since the 1970s, but this is the first time the bill has reached the Floor of the House of Representatives. “This day is long overdue,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Freedom from discrimination in the workplace is a simple concept really. One should be judged by the quality of his or her work, not by skin color, not by age, not by disability, and of course, not by sexual orientation.” Under the legislation, employers with 15 or more employees would be barred from firing, refusing to hire, demoting, refusing to promote, or otherwise discriminating against workers on the basis of sexual orientation. Thirty states permit employers to discriminate against employees based solely on their sexual orientation, and no federal law prohibits such discrimination today. A 2007 study found that 16 percent of lesbians and gay men reported being fired or denied a job because of sexual orientation. Many leading employers have already adopted non-discrimination policies. Nearly 9-in-10 Fortune 500 companies have policies prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation for reasons of fairness and competitiveness. “I very much regret that the Bush Administration is threatening to veto this legislation,” said Rep. Levin. “In 1990, the first President Bush signed the landmark Americans with Disabilities Act, which barred workplace discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities. It is unfortunate that the current Bush Administration has chosen not to build on this progress.” (####)
11.06.2007	(Washington D.C.) - The U.S. House of Representatives today voted to override President Bush’s veto of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), a bill to provide investment in crucial infrastructure projects to protect lakes, wetlands, coastline and communities near water. With 361 members voting for the legislation and only 54 voting against, the bill easily passed the two-thirds majority threshold necessary to override a presidential veto. “This bill is critical to the health of the Great Lakes, Lake St. Clair and other water resources around the country,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Because of the Democratic majority’s new ‘pay-as-you-go’ rules to restore fiscal discipline to the federal government, we must be choosy in deciding which spending programs we authorize. With this legislation, we had a choice to either provide needed investment now to keep our lakes protected, or likely face huge costs later—when irreversible damage to the Great Lakes, Lake St. Clair, and other waterways has already been done. Prioritizing this funding makes good fiscal sense. Clearly, members of both parties agree, and that is why President Bush’s shortsighted veto has been resoundingly overridden today.” In total, WRDA will authorize approximately $23 billion in infrastructure protecting waterways. A vast majority of House members of both parties, even those often prone to vote against spending, agreed that the funding authorized by the legislation will be money well spent. Home to the Great Lakes and many other lakes and waterways, Michigan stands to benefit much if WRDA is enacted. The legislation will specifically authorize funding to keep invasive species out of the Great Lakes; address the Lakes’ navigation routes’ very serious dredging backlog; provide for construction of a second lock in Sault St. Marie; authorize $35 million for the correction of combined sewer overflows in Michigan; authorize projects for the Au Sable, Cass, Ontonagon, Sebewaing, Flint and Clinton rivers; provide $3 million for emergency stream bank and shoreline protection near Detroit; and extend authorization of the Great Lakes Remedial Action Plans and Sediment Remediation Program so that the United States can meet its international obligations, among other programs. The legislation also includes a $20 million authorization co-authored by Congressman Levin for restoration projects in and around Lake St. Clair. “Lake St. Clair continues to experience beach closings, loss of wetlands, and damage from aquatic invasive species like the zebra mussel. This legislation is essential in the fight to curb these problems,” said Levin. Damaging aquatic invasive species arrive in the Great Lakes, and connected waterways, at a rate of one every eight months. One particular aquatic invasive species – the Asian Carp – poses an especially menacing threat and is present in waterways just outside of Lake Michigan. Scientists say the Carp would devastate the Great Lakes fishery and destroy the ecosystem if it entered the Lakes. The only thing keeping the Great Lakes safe is an electronic barrier in the Chicago Sanitary Canal. But the current barrier is only a stopgap measure; it was never intended to be permanent. WRDA would authorize funding to build a more permanent barrier and ensure the Great Lakes’ ecosystem remains protected. Without the barrier, much more money may be needed in the future to attempt to salvage the Great Lakes ecosystem. Said Levin, “So much of Michigan’s economy is dependent on the Great Lakes and Michigan’s inland waterways. If the shipping, tourism and natural beauty our water provides us is diminished, our quality of life will be detrimentally affected. Our water is our greatest natural resource, and an overwhelming, bi-partisan majority of the House of Representatives agrees an investment in this resource is money well spent.” The Senate is expected to take up WRDA as early as Wednesday. The Senate is expected to join the House in overriding Bush’s veto, as they originally passed the legislation 81-12. If that happens, it will be the first time a veto by President Bush has been overridden. (####)
11.01.2007	(Washington D.C.) - The New Democratic Congress joined together today to highlight major accomplishments on the one year anniversary of the election which brought about change in both the U.S. House and Senate. Members of both houses of Congress were on hand to discuss new legislation passed in 2007, such as landmark lobbying and ethics reform, “pay-as-you-go” budget rules, homeland security measures, college aid expansion, an increase in the minimum wage, aid to areas still struggling from the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and measures designed to make America more competitive in the global economy. “Congress has accomplished much this year. The challenges we face are immense and the pace of change too slow, but we can be proud of our accomplishments as we continue down the path of a New Direction,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “We have reformed Congressional ethics rules, made our government more fiscally responsible and our homeland more secure, helped more people attend college, increased the minimum wage, and re-established good trade policy that stands up for U.S. businesses and workers alike in the global market place.” 2007 accomplishments to date include: Landmark lobby and ethics reform with the Honest Leadership, Open Government Act of 2007. The Act requires more public disclosure of lobbyist contributions to legislators’ campaigns, charities, and events, bans gifts from lobbyists and lobbyist funded travel for all legislators, bans Senators from becoming lobbyists for at least two years after leaving the Senate, and increases criminal and civil penalties for lobbyists and legislators found to be in violation of ethics laws. “Pay-as-you-go” budget rules to force fiscal responsibility by requiring that newly proposed expenditures or tax cuts must be offset by savings elsewhere in the budget. Implementation of the 9/11 Commission recommendations to protect America from future terrorist attacks. This will help ensure that America’s ports will be more secure, first responders will be better equipped, cargo on aircraft will be better inspected, airport security will no longer be under-funded, law enforcement agencies will share more information, and more aggressive steps will be taken to reduce proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Enactment of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, the largest College Aid expansion since the G.I. Bill in 1944. The bill increases college financial aid by more than $20 billion over the next five years and cuts interest rates on subsidized student loans in half over the next four years. The bill pays for itself by reducing excessive federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry by $20.9 billion. An increase in the minimum wage for the first time in over a decade, from $5.15 to $7.25 by 2009. As a result, 13 million working Americans, the majority of whom are full time working adults, will finally get a raise and be better able to provide for their family’s needs. Enactment of the “Innovation Agenda” to help the U.S. be more competitive in the global economy by strengthening math, science, engineering and technology education; increasing funding for scientific research and development; creating an agency to provide talent and resources for research leading to greater energy independence; and spurring new growth with assistance programs for small businesses. Restoring middle class priorities in the federal budget by providing additional funding for critical needs; including improvements in veterans health care and defense health programs; making significant investments in public housing; increasing funding for scientific and medical research; and increasing the Labor, Health and Education bill to keep up with inflation. While increasing funding for these key priorities, the 2007 budget did not spend more overall than the previous year’s budget. “In the days ahead, we will continue bi-partisan efforts to expand health care to 10 million children, address the critical issue of energy security, and most importantly, press the Bush Administration to change course in Iraq,” concluded Rep. Levin. (####)
10.31.2007	On a recorded vote, the Ways and Means Committee voted unanimously on the new Peru Free Trade Agreement. "Trade Policy will never be the same.” “The U.S. Peru FTA for the first time incorporates international worker standards in the trade agreement, enforceable like all other provisions. It is a historic breakthrough. And as the majority insisted, Peru has taken steps to change their legal structure to incorporate the basic international standards before we voted.” “This is a fundamental break from the ineffectual "enforce your own laws" model of CAFTA and from here forward trade policy will never be the same. This is not the last step, but it is a meaningful first step. “ The Full text of Rep. Sander Levin’s Opening Statement follows: Opening Statement of Rep. Sander Levin U.S. – Peru Free Trade Agreement Ways and Means Committee Mark-Up Wednesday, October 31, 2007 Prepared for Delivery Globalization is in trouble -- in the U.S. and abroad. More of the same trade policy won't work. What will work is to shape the course of globalization -- with new trade policies -- so more people share the benefits of expanded trade and see its downsides addressed. To spread trade's benefits workers must be a vital part of the trade equation, and essential to that is that they have their basic rights under the ILO Declaration, including the right to associate and bargain. That is important for them, for their nation, Peru, and other Latin American countries in the development of a strong middle class so severely lacking, for workers in our nation who do not want to compete with other nations whose entities suppress their workers, and for our companies and workers who need middle classes in other nations to buy the goods and services we produce here at home. The U.S. Peru FTA for the first time incorporates international worker standards in the trade agreement, enforceable like all other provisions. It is a historic breakthrough. And as the majority insisted, Peru has taken steps to change their legal structure to incorporate the basic international standards before we voted. This is a fundamental break from the ineffectual "enforce your own laws" model of CAFTA and from here forward trade policy will never be the same. This is not the last step, but it is a meaningful first step. So is requiring both countries for the first time in a bilateral trade agreement to abide with enforceability like all other provisions by international environmental standards--the multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs). And the Peru FTA has a groundbreaking provision to prevent import to the U.S. of logs illegally harvested--preventing competition based on a degradation of the Amazon harmful to their continent, ours and beyond. There is also an important advance on availability of medicines for people in need in Peru. Many of the criticisms of this FTA have been misstated, indeed badly misguided. This FTA will NOT impact our ability to set high food safety requirements, it will NOT preclude Buy American provisions, it will NOT lock in Peruvian Social Security privatization, it will NOT give more power to foreign investors. These are falsehoods and they should be rejected. This FTA is crucial step on a new path forward for U.S. trade policy and I strongly urge its passage today and on the floor of the House and Senate. To view Rep. Levin's opening statement click here. (####)
10.31.2007	(Washington D.C.) - The U.S. House of Representatives has approved a complete overhaul of the federal program to assist workers impacted by globalization. The Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007 would expand and improve the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Act of 1962 to help more workers that lose their jobs as a result of global trade. It was approved by a vote of 264 to 157. “As we re-establish good trade policy that stands up for U.S. businesses and workers in the global market place, we must also fix the broken Trade Adjustment Assistance Act,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “Each year, Michigan workers have been placed on waiting lists for training, workers have not received the advanced training they need, and too many have been unable to utilize the health care tax credit. We can compete in the global economy, but we must have programs that fully support workers displaced by globalization in their transition to new, good paying jobs. “Earlier this week, I met Michigan residents Robert Nacarrow and Joe Danyko, two workers who lost their jobs as a result of globalization. Because they were eligible for worker re-training under TAA, Mr. Nacarrow, a former factory worker, is now a Radiology Technician, and Mr. Danyko went back to school to further his engineer degree and is re-employed at a significantly higher salary. Unfortunately, another Michigander Gary Mosey was not certified for TAA for three years because of the inadequate coverage of service workers and some manufacturing workers.” The legislation would: Expand trade adjustment assistance to cover service workers for the first time. TAA started in 1962, when trade did not significantly affect service sector jobs. Today, service sector employees (which make up 80% of the American workforce) are often displaced by trade, yet the program has never been updated to address this. Expand criteria so that more manufacturing workers are covered. For example, under TAA, workers who lose their jobs because their factory moves to China may not get TAA benefits. Such workers must also show that the factory relocation will result in increased imports to the United States (which may not occur for a variety of reasons, such as the factory always produced for a foreign market). Also, while current law extends TAA coverage to workers employed “downstream” of a TAA-certified firm (i.e., secondary workers), this coverage is limited to firms impacted by trade with Canada and Mexico. This bill eliminates these short-sighted restrictions. Ensure access to better training and improve health care coverage. The bill doubles the current training funding cap from $220 million to $440 million and increases it to $660 million by 2010. The increase covers potential increases in the number of eligible workers because of expansion to service workers and more manufacturing workers. The bill also allows workers to receive benefits for a longer period of time if they are engaged in long-term worker re-training programs. Make improvements to the Unemployment Insurance program. States would be provided financial incentives for reforms designed to: count workers’ most recent wages when determining UI eligibility; end discrimination against part-time workers; allow separations from work for compelling family reasons (such as fleeing domestic violence); and provide extended benefits during approved training for high demand employment. Establish “Manufacturing Re-development Zones” to assist entire communities impacted by the manufacturing jobs crisis. The bill includes a package of tax incentives designed to encourage the redevelopment of communities that have suffered substantial reductions in manufacturing employment. The communities would also be eligible for tax exempt bond financing for new businesses; tax credit bond financing for the cost of redevelopment, including infrastructure improvements; and additional low income housing credits. A two page summary of the legislation can be found here. (####)
10.26.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin introduced legislation to make permanent an important provision of the tax code that encourages businesses to donate food inventory to food banks and other hunger-fighting organizations. As the demand for food assistance continues to outpace supply in communities across America, this tax incentive program is working to encourage the donation of healthy foods to people in need,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “We must act to make it permanent part of the tax code so it becomes a permanent part of the food donation plans for these eligible businesses.” Background Under current law, businesses that donate food inventory to charity are eligible for a special deduction equal to their basis in the inventory plus one half the gain that would have been realized had the product been sold. Unfortunately, the eligibility of business that are not C corporations, including farmers and ranchers, is set to expire at the end of this year. Permanently extending this deduction for contributions of food inventory to all business taxpayers is a needed step in the continued fight against hunger in America. In the year since the provision was enacted in the Pension Protection Act of 2006, America’s Second Harvest, the Nation’s Food Bank Network, has seen a 2% increase in overall food donated in FY 2007, and specifically a 28% increase in the amount of fresh fruits and vegetables donated. According to America’s Second Harvest, the Nation’s Food Bank Network, the majority of their 200 food banks have bare warehouse shelves due to shortages in USDA commodities and are struggling to make this up with private donations. The “Hunger In America 2006” study conducted by Mathematica Policy Research, Inc., found that over 25 million individuals seek emergency food assistance each year from the America’s Second Harvest network of food banks and through the food pantries, soup kitchens and shelters the food banks serve. Hunger is increasing in the United States at the same time that the USDA estimates that more than 96 billion pounds of food is being thrown away and filling landfills. (####)
10.26.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin and Senator Bill Nelson have introduced legislation to reform the Presidential Primary nominating system. The legislation would establish six primary or caucus dates between March and June. On each of the dates, a state or group of smaller states from each region of the country would go on every day. This is not a regional primary system instead every election date would have a fair and representative presence from every region of the country. Below is a map that illustrates one possible combination of states for 1 of the 6 elections. Click here to see what a full primary schedule would look like. ************************************ Rep. Sander Levin and Senator Bill Nelson Presidential Primary Reform Bill House Bill 1523 and the Senate bill, Fair and Representative Presidential Primary System of 2007 would create an interregional system for the selection of delegates to political party Presidential nominating conventions through caucuses or primaries. The primary or caucus dates would be scheduled between March and June as follows: second Tuesday in March, first Tuesday in April, fourth Tuesday in April, second Tuesday in May, fourth Tuesday in May, second Tuesday in June On each of the above dates, a state or group of smaller states from each region of the country would go on every day. Every election date would have a fair and representative presence from every region of the country. One sub-region from each region would hold its caucus or primary on one of six dates between March and June of the Presidential Election year. The regions and sub-regions are broken down below. This is not a regional primary system. Under this proposal, one group (A-F below) from each region would go on the same election date. This would be determined by lottery and rotate each cycle Region 1: (A) Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont; (B) Massachusetts; (C) Connecticut, Rhode Island; (D) Delaware, New Jersey; (E) New York; (F) Pennsylvania Region 2: (A) Maryland, District of Columbia; (B) West Virginia; (C) Missouri; (D) Indiana; (E) Kentucky; (F) Tennessee Region 3: (A) Ohio; (B) Illinois; (C) Michigan; (D) Wisconsin; (E) Iowa; (F) Minnesota Region 4: (A) Texas; (B) Louisiana; (C) Arkansas, Oklahoma; (D) Colorado; (E) Kansas, Nebraska; (F) Arizona, New Mexico Region 5: (A) Virginia; (B) North Carolina; (C) South Carolina; (D) Florida; (E) Georgia; (F) Mississippi, Alabama Region 6: (A) California; (B) Washington; (C) Oregon; (D) Idaho, Nevada, Utah; (E) Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming; (F) Hawaii, Alaska For the first Presidential election this Act would apply to, the Election Assistance Commission would determine by lottery the order in which each sub-region would hold its caucus or primary. If a state goes first during one cycle, it will go sixth (last) in the next cycle, and fifth in the following cycle, moving up one slot each cycle. During a 24-year rotation, then, every state will have occupied every primary and caucus slot exactly once. (####)
10.25.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) today released the following statement regarding Ways and Means Chairman Rangel’s introduction of the Tax Reform and Reduction Act of 2007. “Chairman Rangel’s legislation proposes a comprehensive framework for overhauling our tax system,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “It has the right priorities – fairness, tax relief for middle class families, simplification, and the promotion of economic growth.” “91 million families would get a tax cut. The bill permanently eliminates the Alternative Minimum Tax which will impact 23 million taxpayers this year and millions of middle class families in future years unless repealed. Millions of taxpayers would benefit from an increase in the standard deduction and more working families would be able to use the child tax credit and the earned income tax credit which have proven so effective in providing relief to those experiencing the ‘middle-class squeeze’ of stagnant wages and the rising costs of health care, higher education and other expenses.” “The legislation curtails a number of inequities that undermine the average American’s confidence in our tax system. In particular, it will end the ability of private equity and other investment fund managers to pay the 15 percent capital gains rate on their compensation when other Americans who provide services pay up to 35 percent.” “Finally, the bill simplifies our corporate tax system, broadening the base and lowering the corporate tax rate from 35% to 30.5% in order to enhance economic growth. I am also particularly pleased that the bill rewards domestic production.” “Importantly, the Rangel bill is fiscally responsible. It adheres to the pay-go rules that the new Democratic Congress established at the beginning of the year. It sets important priorities for our individual and corporate tax system and remains revenue neutral.” **To view Rep. Levin on FOXBusiness discussing the Tax Reform and Reduction Act of 2007 click here. (####)
10.24.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The Ways and Means Committee approved a complete overhaul of the federal program to assist workers impacted by globalization. The Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007 would expand and improve the program and is expected to be considered by the U.S. House in the next weeks. “At the same time we are taking first steps in a new trade policy that stands up for U.S. businesses and workers in the global marketplace; it is vital that workers, firms, and communities have a reformed and strengthened trade and globalization assistance program,” said. Rep. Sander Levin. The legislation would expand trade adjustment assistance to cover service workers for the first time, expand criteria so that more manufacturing workers are covered, ensure access to better training and improve health care coverage. The legislation would also make improvements to the Unemployment Insurance program and establish Manufacturing Re-development Zones to assist entire communities impacted by the manufacturing jobs crisis. A two page summary of the legislation can be found here. Background of TAA Program: Congress created TAA in 1962 to provide U.S. workers who lose their jobs because of foreign competition with government-funded training and associated income support to enable them to transition to new good paying jobs. The TAA program has been periodically reauthorized over the last 35 years, and now includes separate programs for workers, firms and farmers. The current TAA program fails to meet the needs of those it was intended to help. For instance, despite the fact that the service sector employs 80% of the American workforce, TAA does not cover most service sector workers, including information technology workers, accountants, and aircraft maintenance crews, all of which now face competition from abroad. TAA also excludes many manufacturing workers because of illogical eligibility criteria (e.g., a worker whose factory moves to Mexico is guaranteed TAA coverage, while a worker whose factory moves to China is not). TAA is also inadequately funded – and as a result, during periods of economic downturn, many who would like to participate in TAA cannot. TAA training coverage also has been artificially limited by the Department of Labor and some States’ restrictive interpretations of current law. The TAA health coverage tax credit, which was heralded as a major improvement to the program in 2002, has not proven to be an effective mechanism for providing health benefits to this population. Private insurance policies are unaffordable and impose rules designed to limit access to coverage, the application process is cumbersome, and even under the most efficient system the cost of administering the advance credit is excessive. As a result, only fifteen percent of those who are eligible have access to health benefits, despite the obvious need. (####)
10.12.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Amidst growing public skepticism regarding the benefits of trade, President Bush gave a speech today in Miami, Florida on the pending free trade agreements. House Committee on Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement in response: “President Bush fails to acknowledge that the growing antagonism to trade and globalization in our nation reflects significantly the failure of his own trade policies. “In a rapidly globalizing world, the Bush Administration stubbornly adhered to policies and slogans of the past, glibly dismissing as he did again today efforts to address problems as “protectionism” or “isolationism”, when the opposite is true. “He talked about “a level playing field” for American businesses and workers but his Administration has repeatedly accepted very unlevel ones. “Time after time his Administration has responded with inertia, ineptitude or indifference: as middle income wages have stagnated, as trade has been a one way street, exemplified by the persistent trade deficits with Japan and Korea shutting out our exports, as the trade deficit with China has skyrocketed (over 300% during his Presidency), resisting Congressional efforts to confront China’s rigging of its currency to help its exports and keep out ours, instead relying on endless rhetoric; as his budgets have called for major cuts in training programs for dislocated workers, resisting Democratic efforts to improve them. “Year after year the Democratic minority in the Congress fought, against the myopic opposition of the Bush Administration, to bring enforceable core international labor and environmental standards into trade agreements. Unmentioned by the President today, the U.S. Peru FTA has now been renegotiated to bring this about. “In insisting on this, the House Democratic leadership made clear that each trade agreement must be considered in terms of the specific conditions in each nation. In the case of Colombia, worker rights standards in an agreement would not be sufficient where workers and their leaders were being killed with continued impunity. And in the case of Korea, where decades of closed markets to our industrial goods have hurt the U.S., we must insist on a trade agreement that does in reality change the status quo. “The Peru agreement represents a start on shaping a new trade policy that makes sure that the benefits of expanded trade will be more widely shared and its downsides addressed for those who have been left behind or left out. It is only the beginning of a necessary, active grappling with the challenges and opportunities of globalization.” (####)
10.10.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 232-173 H.R. 3056, the Tax Collection Responsibility Act, which would repeal the Internal Revenue Service’s authority to contract out tax collection to private collection agencies. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak), who was an original co-sponsor of the legislation, praised the House’s action to end this failed experiment in outsourcing essential government services. Earlier this year, the House Ways & Means Committee held hearings into the IRS private tax collection program to investigate taxpayer complaints and the program’s effectiveness. During the hearing, the Committee heard disturbing tape recordings of debt collectors harassing taxpayers and witness testimony - including from the IRS Commissioner - that the IRS could collect unpaid Federal taxes more efficiently than private debt collectors. “The outsourcing of tax collection has led to widespread harassment of taxpayers and now the IRS admits that allowing private companies collect these tax debts is far more expensive than having IRS employees do the work,” said Rep. Levin. “We need to restore accountability and professionalism to the basic government task of collecting taxes.” H.R. 3056 would also delay the application of an onerous three percent withholding requirement on businesses, and discourage individuals who renounce their U.S. citizenship to avoid paying taxes. To view a summary of H.R. 3056 click here. (####)
10.04.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today approved H.R. 3648, the Mortgage Debt Forgiveness Relief Act, by a wide bipartisan majority [386-27] to help address the subprime lending crisis and ongoing turmoil in the housing market. Included in the bill was a provision authored by Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) to extend the deductibility of mortgage insurance premiums. The provision would allow homeowners who purchase mortgage insurance between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2014 deduct their premiums from their income when they file their taxes. Mortgage insurance offered by the Federal Housing Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs and private insurers typically require lower down payments, and allow borrowers with less than perfect credit to obtain a mortgage. “Mortgage insurance allows aspiring homeowners to take out safe, stable mortgages with lower down payments and provide an attractive alternative to so-called ‘piggyback’ loans. It levels the playing field among different mortgage options,” said Levin. “Making mortgage insurance more affordable will help millions of families afford the American Dream of homeownership.” Also included in the legislation approved today is a provision that provides relief to families who have lost their home through foreclosure, or who have negotiated partial forgiveness of their mortgage in order to stay in their home. Under current law, the tax code treats forgiveness of mortgage debt like income, and requires that tax be paid on that income. In the case of a foreclosure, an individual would owe income tax on the difference between the outstanding principal on their mortgage and the amount their lender gets for selling their house. The legislation approved by the Committee would eliminate this unfair tax. “It is simply unfair that we send people a tax bill when they lose their home to foreclosure, and this legislation will correct that” said Levin. To view a summary of HR 3648 please click here. To view Congressman Levin speaking on the House Floor in support of the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act of 2007 click here. (####)
09.25.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) made the following floor statement in support of the State Children's Health Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2007: I rise in strong support of the State Children’s Health Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2007. This legislation renews and strengthens a program that provides health insurance to children whose families cannot afford it on the private market. The legislation we are voting on today will extend children’s health insurance to enroll almost 4 million kids that are currently eligible for the program and not yet enrolled. That’s in addition to the 6 million low-income children already receiving health care under the SCHIP program nationwide, including 55,000 kids in my home state of Michigan. I regret that many of the provisions the House included this summer did not make it into the compromise bill. I’m hopeful that we will work with the Senate to approve legislation before the year’s end in order to ensure Medicare beneficiary access to physicians and stop the further erosion of Medicare solvency. Nonetheless, I support this legislation and urge my colleagues to vote in support of the compromise bill. Providing health care for children should not be a partisan issue. The legislation has the support of a large majority of state governors, Republicans and Democrats alike. The bill has broad bipartisan support in the Senate; unfortunately, most of the Republican minority in the House has failed to join us in crafting this compromise and the President has threatened to veto this important legislation. So it comes down to this: Clearly, a majority of the House will vote for the SCHIP bill today; the only real question is whether the House will pass this bill with enough votes to discourage a Presidential veto. Do we stand with the President or with kids who need health care coverage? Instead of working with Congress to expand health care coverage for children, the President’s proposal would actually cause 840,000 kids that are currently covered under SCHIP to lose their benefits, not to mention leave hanging the 4 million children that Congress’ bill would bring into the program. The American People want the children of America covered by health insurance. A bi-partisan majority of House and Senate Members are committed to carrying this out. The question remains as to whether or not the Bush Administration will get on board. (####)
09.20.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement regarding the International Trade Commission (ITC)’s Report: U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement: Potential Economy-wide and Selected Sectoral Effects. “I am pleased to see the ITC acknowledge the many games Korea has played to keep its markets closed to imports in sectors ranging from autos and medical devices to household appliances and semiconductors. I am also pleased the Commission acknowledges that Korea has failed to honor the commitments it made to eliminate non-tariff barriers in past agreements. Critically, the report also confirms that, in the Korean auto market, where Korean automakers control more than 95% of the market, the effect of Korea’s commitment to remove these barriers is likely to be “minimal.” “The U.S. enters into free trade agreements to open a foreign country’s markets to U.S. goods and services, and this FTA fails to accomplish that goal. By failing to remove the economic iron curtain around the Korean market, the FTA locks in one way trade at the expense of U.S. businesses and workers. It sends a terrible message to our trading partners. “Until the free trade agreement is renegotiated to address this serious problem, and guarantee that all American businesses will see real benefits from the agreement, I will continue to vigorously oppose it.” (####)
09.06.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Today Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) introduced legislation to allow tax-exempt entities to invest directly in US-based hedge funds rather than routing their investments offshore. Levin was joined by Ways & Means Committee Members Reps. Jim McDermott, John Lewis, Earl Pomeroy, Earl Blumenauer, Bill Pascrell, Shelley Berkley, and Chris Van Hollen. Under current law, tax-exempt entities that invest in hedge funds are subject to unrelated business income tax (UBIT) due to the debt incurred by the fund. The debt-financed income rules were created decades ago to address a separate issue, but have forced tax-exempt investors to channel their investments in hedge funds through offshore “blocker” corporations. “We have said that we are taking a look at the entire tax code and making it as fair as possible. In that spirit, this bill will fix a problem that unfairly forces our pension funds, universities and foundations offshore to make certain investments,” said Levin. “These rules were never meant to apply to this kind of investment, and we should allow these institutions to bring their investments home.” The bill would create an exception to the debt-finance income rules that would allow all tax-exempt entities to invest directly in onshore hedge funds without being subject to UBIT. The bill is modeled on the exception to these rules that currently allows pension funds and universities to invest in debt-financed real estate. However, this exception would be available to all tax-exempt entities, including foundations. The problem addressed by the legislation was discussed in yesterday’s hearing in the Ways & Means Committee on tax fairness. The text of the bill is available at:https://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/mi12_levin/levin.pdf For further information, please contact Hilarie Chambers at 202-225-4961 or Hilarie.Chambers@mail.house.gov (####)
09.06.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) and Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Senator Carl Levin (D-MI) have joined together to reform the presidential primary nominating system. Senator Nelson today introduced companion legislation to Rep. Levin’s interregional primary reform bill introduced earlier this year. “Florida and Michigan are at the epicenter of efforts to end the current unfair system of nominating our President,” said Rep. Levin. “These efforts to end the stranglehold that New Hampshire and Iowa have are a symptom of the problem and this legislation is a solution.” “We need an orderly primary and caucus system that combines the need to bring Americans truly into the decision-making process with the need to allow candidates the opportunity to interact meaningfully with citizens throughout the nation,” said Rep. Levin. “This legislation spaces out the primary dates over several months, requiring candidates to establish themselves in multiple states. At the same time, each primary date will include at least one state from every region in the country, which will ensure that a broad spectrum of Americans' views is accounted for in the selection process,” concluded Levin. The legislation would establish six primary or caucus dates between March and June. On each of the dates, a state or group of smaller states from each region of the country would go on every day. Every election date would have a fair and representative presence from every region of the country. Below is an explanation of the legislation. Levin first introduced this legislation in 1986 when the problem was first becoming apparent but which has since dramatically magnified. ******************* Rep. Sander Levin and Senator Bill Nelson Presidential Primary Reform Bill House Bill 1523 and the Senate bill, Fair and Representative Presidential Primary System of 2007 would create an interregional system for the selection of delegates to political party Presidential nominating conventions through caucuses or primaries. The primary or caucus dates would be scheduled between March and June as follows: second Tuesday in March, first Tuesday in April, fourth Tuesday in April, second Tuesday in May, fourth Tuesday in May, second Tuesday in June On each of the above dates, a state or group of smaller states from each region of the country would go on every day. Every election date would have a fair and representative presence from every region of the country. One sub-region from each region would hold its caucus or primary on one of six dates between March and June of the Presidential Election year. The regions and sub-regions are broken down below. This is not a regional primary system. Under this proposal, one group (A-F below) from each region would go on the same election date. This would be determined by lottery and rotate each cycle Region 1: (A) Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont; (B) Massachusetts; (C) Connecticut, Rhode Island; (D) Delaware, New Jersey; (E) New York; (F) Pennsylvania Region 2: (A) Maryland; (B) West Virginia; (C) Missouri; (D) Indiana; (E) Kentucky; (F) Tennessee Region 3: (A) Ohio; (B) Illinois; (C) Michigan; (D) Wisconsin; (E) Iowa; (F) Minnesota Region 4: (A) Texas; (B) Louisiana; (C) Arkansas, Oklahoma; (D) Colorado; (E) Kansas, Nebraska; (F) Arizona, New Mexico Region 5: (A) Virginia; (B) North Carolina; (C) South Carolina; (D) Florida; (E) Georgia; (F) Mississippi, Alabama Region 6: (A) California; (B) Washington; (C) Oregon; (D) Idaho, Nevada, Utah; (E) Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming; (F) Hawaii, Alaska For the first Presidential election this Act would apply to, the Election Assistance Commission would determine by lottery the order in which each sub-region would hold its caucus or primary. If a state goes first during one cycle, it will go sixth (last) in the next cycle, and fifth in the following cycle, moving up one slot each cycle. During a 24-year rotation, then, every state will have occupied every primary and caucus slot exactly once. Below is a map that illustrates one possible combination of states for 1 of the 6 elections.**In the legislation this would be determined by lottery and rotate each cycle** (####)
08.01.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) is pleased to sponsor Lianna Stroster, a junior at Lake Shore High School in, for the Congressional Page Program offered by the U.S. House of Representatives. Ms. Stroster will serve as a Congressional Page from September 2, 2007 through January 25, 2008 in Washington, D.C. “The Congressional Page Program gives high school students a first hand look at how our government operates and how federal policy is made in our nation's capital,” said Rep. Levin, who represents the 12th district. “While working on the House floor, the pages gain hands-on experience with the legislative process.” Job duties for the pages include delivering messages and legislative material to Members of Congress, and working off the House floor during the legislative session. Pages also have the opportunity to attend school at the Library of Congress for the semester they are in Washington. “Lianna is an accomplished young leader, and I am pleased to have her join me in Washington,” said Levin. Lianna Stroster is a junior at Lake Shore High School in St. Clair Shores, Michigan, where she has served as the International Diabetes Youth Ambassador, the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation Advocate and president of the Junior State of America (JSA). Lianna started her own JSA chapter at Lake Shore after attending the summer school program at Princeton University. She also has played on the soccer and basketball teams. “Not only is Lianna intelligent but she is also punctual, responsible and enters the classroom every day ready to learn and take on new challenges.” said Mary Druminski, Social Studies Teacher at Lake Shore High School. “I have consistently been impressed with her abilities as both a student and young civic leader.” (####)
08.01.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, chaired by Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), is holding a hearing on Thursday, August 2, 2007 to review legislation introduced on trade with China. The hearing will take place in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building, at 9:00 a.m. The legislation to be examined includes bills to address trade-distorting currency practices, as well as legislation to modify U.S. trade remedy laws. In addition, the hearing will address the safety of food imports into the United States. “China is an important trading partner that presents numerous competitive challenges to U.S. workers and businesses,” said Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “It is vital that we have an active and effective trade policy towards China that ensures they are adhering to the rules of international trade and not manipulating their currency to gain an unfair competitive advantage.” At the Hearing, House and Senate Members will testify about legislation they have introduced or are supporting, Administration officials from the Department of Commerce, Department of Treasury, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative and U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security and individuals from the private sector will also testify about the proposed legislation. BACKGROUND: Trade flows between the United States and China are substantial, growing, and heavily imbalanced. U.S. exports to China in 2006 were $55.2 billion, up from $41.9 billion in 2005, and $19.2 billion in 2001, the year China acceded to the WTO. U.S. imports from China in 2006 were $287.8 billion, up from $243.5 billion in 2005, and $102.3 billion in 2001. The result is a large and growing U.S. goods trade deficit with China: $232.6 billion in 2006 – the largest trade deficit in U.S. history. (The United States had a services trade surplus with China of $2.6 billion in 2005, up from $1.8 billion in 2004 and $2.0 billion in 2001.) In the first five months of 2007, the U.S. trade deficit with China was higher than in the first five months of 2006. In 2006, China accounted for roughly 12 percent of total U.S. trade and 30 percent of the total U.S. goods trade deficit with the world. Currency Practices. Economists generally consider that the Chinese renminbi (also called the “yuan”) is undervalued relative to the U.S. dollar, with estimates ranging from 9.5% to 54%. China holds more than $1.3 trillion in foreign exchange reserves – reserves that help to keep the value of its currency relatively low and China’s exports to the United States relatively less expensive, in U.S. dollar terms, than they otherwise would be. The currency issue was the subject of a tripartite hearing (between the Trade Subcommittee, and the relevant subcommittees of the Financial Services Committee and the Energy and Commerce Committee) on May 9. A number of bills have been introduced to address the problem of persistent and substantial currency misalignment. The bills take varying approaches. For example, some would provide for the imposition of antidumping and countervailing duties to address the fundamental misalignment of a currency in certain circumstances, and require the Treasury Department to consult with countries that are found to have fundamentally misaligned currencies. Others would apply across-the-board duties on all imports from China, so long as China is manipulating its currency. Modifications to Trade Remedy Laws. Existing U.S. trade remedy laws include the antidumping law, the countervailing duty law (to address subsidized imports), and the law to provide relief from “market disruption” caused by imports from China (section 421 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended). Increasingly, China is a major source of dumped and injurious imports, with nearly 85% of imports subject to new antidumping orders since 2004 originating from China, and it has many subsidy programs that could distort trade between the United States and China. A wide variety of bills has been introduced in the 110th Congress to modify each of these three laws. One bill would: (1) defer U.S. compliance with decisions by the WTO Appellate Body (regarding a ruling that the United States is required to offset dumped sales with non-dumped sales) until the Administration clarifies U.S. rights and obligations within WTO multilateral negotiations and (2) overrule a U.S. Federal Circuit opinion requiring the U.S. International Trade Commission to undertake an additional analytic step before making an affirmative injury determination in certain cases. Another bill would amend U.S. trade remedy laws so that U.S. manufacturers that use products subject to countervailing or antidumping duty proceedings or use domestic like products (industrial users) can participate in such proceedings. There is also legislation that would clarify that U.S. countervailing duty law applies to nonmarket economy countries. Finally, there is a bill pending that would remove the President’s discretion not to impose Chinese safeguard relief to the extent that imposing such relief would have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy clearly greater than the benefits of such action. (####)
08.01.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives is expected to adopt legislation later today that calls for up to $20 million to implement restoration projects in Lake St. Clair. The Lake St. Clair restoration language was requested earlier this year by Representative Sander Levin. Senators Levin and Stabenow worked to gain Senate approval of the language. The funding is included in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) which sets funding levels for hundreds of water projects around the nation. “At long last, Lake St. Clair is getting its due,” said Rep. Levin (D-MI), “Restoration of the Lake doesn’t happen by itself. Everyone, including the federal government, has to step forward and take responsibility for this.” “Lake St. Clair was always the forgotten stepchild of the Great Lakes. I think now it will finally be found,” said Doug Martz, chairman of the Macomb County Water Quality Board. The Lake St. Clair provision calls for up to $20 million to allow the Army Corps of Engineers, in partnership with the state of Michigan and local government, to implement the recommendations of the comprehensive management plan for Lake St. Clair that was approved in 2005. Inclusion of the Lake St. Clair restoration language in the Water Resources Development Act is an important first step in the process of obtaining the funding. Starting next year, Michigan lawmakers will have to convince the House and Senate Appropriations Committees to provide the funding for the Lake St. Clair Projects “We have a management plan to restore Lake St. Clair, and now we have Water Resources bills that give us the legal authority we need to implement it,” said Rep. Levin, “Now we have to roll up our sleeves and get the Appropriations Committee to come up with the money.” The Army Corps of Engineers will work with other federal agencies, the State of Michigan and local stakeholders to develop the specific restoration projects in Lake St. Clair, the St. Clair River and their watersheds. Congress routinely approves a major water resources bill every two or three years, but the WRDA bill has been snagged for years due to disagreements over how to reform the manner in which the Army Corps of Engineers formulates, reviews and implements projects. As a result, Congress has not approved a water resources bill since 2000. The Senate is also expected to give final approval to the WRDA bill this week, clearing the legislation to be sent to the White House for the President’s signature. The Bush Administration has expressed a number of reservations about the cost of the bill, and has given notice that the President will veto the bill. In that event, the House and Senate would almost certainly attempt to override the veto. If the override effort is successful, House and Senate Appropriators will have to grant funding for the projects. This work will be underway in early 2008. (####)
08.01.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the House of Representatives is expected to approve the CHAMP Act of 2007, which provides funding for the re-authorization of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and improves Medicare for all beneficiaries. The SCHIP program currently provides health coverage for 6 million low-income children nationwide and 55,000 kids in Michigan alone. “Some of the issues we debate are quite complicated. This one is quite simple,” said Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “This is about kids, and more benefits for seniors. 5 million more kids. Benefits for seniors are improved. The American People want the children of America covered by health insurance. The Republicans have failed in their years here, and we will make sure that these kids get their health insurance.” The CHAMP bill re-authorizes the SCHIP program and adds $50 billion in new appropriations to insure 5.1 million more children that are currently eligible for the program but not participating. Under the new legislation that will be passed by the House of Representatives, a 45 cent tobacco tax and correction of over-payments to private Medicare Advantage plans will be used to fund children’s health insurance and improvements to the Medicare program. “This legislation also helps provide better services for people on Medicare,” continued Rep. Levin. “By decreasing the cost of mental health care for seniors, expanding programs to help lower monthly premiums and co-pays on prescription drugs, and keeping Medicare solvent for an additional three years, this bill goes a long way in helping our seniors’ quality of life.” This bill improves Medicare by: • Expanding access to preventative health care by eliminating co-pays and deductibles for preventative services such as colorectal cancer screenings and annual mammograms. • Ensuring access to physicians for Medicare beneficiaries nationwide by prohibiting Medicare physician payment cuts. • Preserving Michigan’s right to provide health coverage for 67,000 working adults with incomes of about $3,500 per year. • Lowering the cost of mental health care for Michigan’s seniors. Currently, seniors have to pay for 50% of their mental health services and 20% of physical health costs. This legislation lowers the share that seniors have to pay for mental health care to 20%. • Benefiting taxpayers in Michigan by adding 3 years of solvency to the Medicare program. • Expanding and improving programs that help low-income seniors afford their health care and prescription drugs. The CHAMP bill is endorsed by 95 major health care organizations, including the AARP, the American Medical Association and the American Hospital Association. (####)
07.31.2007	These are Rep. Sander Levin’s Project-Specific Appropriations Requests for FY 2008. This information was previously release to Citizens Against Government Waste. Click here to access the report. (Note: the requests below are listed by Appropriations Subcommittee, but not in any particular order. Except in rare circumstances, which are noted, our office’s policy is not to submit project-specific requests for private sector entities.) Defense Lawrence Technological University (LTU) in Southfield, Michigan for Vehicle Armor Structure Development and Testing for Future Combat Systems and Joint Light Tactical Vehicle. The $4 million requested would be used in the full-scale development, testing, and application of innovative (light-weigh composite) materials for lightweight vehicle armor. The funding will also be used to test various composite armor structures under a number of extreme environmental conditions to see how they hold up. The U.S. Army Medical Research and Materiel Command’s Multiple Sclerosis Research Program.** The $15 million requested would address treatments, triggers and diagnostic markers for multiple sclerosis. Automation Alley’s Diminishing Manufacturing Sources and Material Shortages (DMSMS) Case Resolution Program. The $5 million requested would significantly reduce the Army’s costs for weapon systems sustainment by developing a center for directing the researching of DMSMS cases, designing engineering solutions and testing alternatives for obsolete parts. This request responds to a longstanding problem of obtaining hard-to-find parts for our military vehicles, especially electronic components for the older vehicles. In some cases, the company that made the original part does not even exist anymore. The entity to receive funding for this project is Automation Alley, a consortium of business, government and education leaders, headquartered in Troy, Michigan. Dynamometer Facility Upgrade Program at the U.S. Army Tank Automotive Research, Development and Engineering Center (TARDEC). The $4.25 million requested would replace TARDEC’s dynamometer, a machine used to measure torque and rotational speed from which power produced by an engine, motor or other rotating prime mover can be calculated. The TARDEC dynamometer is outdated and they will need a more modern machine to evaluate future combat vehicle systems. The entity to perform the work on this project is AVL Powertrain Engineering, Inc., in Plymouth Michigan. Focus: HOPE’s Navy Mobile Manufacturing and Repair Cell. The $5 million requested would demonstrate the feasibility of repair, restoration, reconfiguration and reconstruction of worn out navy components. With a repair capability, manufacturing issues associated with mobile field fabrication are either minimized or eliminated. The needs for material availability and inventory are significantly reduced, structures are more quickly returned to service. The entity to receive funding for this project is a consortium headed by Focus: HOPE of Detroit, Michigan, which developed the successful Army Parts Hospital Program. Focus: HOPE is a nationally recognized civil and human rights organization in Detroit, Michigan. Karmanos Cancer Institute in Detroit for its National Oncogenomics and Molecular Imaging Center (NOMIC). The $5.186 million requested would be used for collaborative consortium research funding in partnership with the DoD National Functional Genomics Consortium. The NOMIC at the Karmanos Cancer Institute will use these funds to develop technology that will allow for the diagnosis of human cancer by defining oncogene signatures that characterize cancers in human patients. Department of Defense for biomedical research for Parkinson’s and other neurodegenerative diseases.** The $50 million requested would support research being conducted by the Department of Defense’s Neurotoxin Exposure Treatment Program. This research provides DoD with information on how best to protect military personnel and minimize or eliminate future exposures to toxic substances, to which they are routinely exposed. Scientific studies show that these everyday exposures and risk of injury put our troops at an increased risk for developing neurodegenerative diseases, like Parkinson’s. Fuel Cell Cost Reduction and Durability Improvement for Defense Applications. The $7.5 million requested would be used by Ballard Power Systems, Kettering University and Macomb Community College to conduct research, development and field trial evaluation of fuel cell stack. Department of Defense, U.S. Army Tank Automotive Research, Development and Engineering Center (TARDEC). The $14.5 million requested would be used for facilities upgrades. U.S. Naval Sea Cadets Corps. The $300,000 increase in the Bush Administration’s request would support this nationally organized, federally funded youth program in cooperation with the U.S. Navy, encourages teens ages 14-18 to develop an interest in basic seamanship, foster their leadership abilities, broaden their horizons through hands-on training and guide them to becoming mature young adults. Sea Cadet organizations exist in most of the maritime nations of the world. Recognizing the value of these organizations in educating youth in maritime matters, the Department of the Navy requested the Navy League of the United States to establish a similar program for American youth. The Navy League agreed to do so and formally established the Naval Sea Cadet Corps in 1958. ** These requests were submitted by a large number of House Members. They are for longstanding health research programs supported by the DoD. Because these programs are not authorized, the Appropriations Committee asked that Members who co-signed a letter of support for the programs include them with their project-specific requests. Interior/EPA Macomb County (MI) Health Department. The $436,980 requested would help to continue efforts by Macomb and St. Clair Counties to conduct Illicit Discharge Elimination Programs to help track down wastewater discharges to the rivers and tributaries of Lake St. Clair. Macomb County Health Department. The $200,000 requested would enhance the system of drinking water monitoring in the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair. Oakland County, Michigan. The $1 million requested would help eliminate sewage contributions from older urban areas of the County. The funding is focused on the non-12-Towns sewers that have illicit discharges into the storm drains leading to Clinton River and Lake St. Clair. City of Lathrup Village, Michigan. The $520,000 requested would go to help the City line a portion of their sewer system to reduce sewage discharges into the Rouge River. Michigan Department of Natural Resources. The $305,000 requested would be used to demonstrate effective strategies for controlling the spread of Phragmites on 1250 acres in St. Johns Marsh along Lake St. Clair. Phragmites is an invasive grass that can grow up to 12 feet high and is rapidly spreading along the Lake St. Clair shoreline. Energy & Water City of Mount Clemens, Michigan. The $660,000 requested would be used for navigational dredging in the Clinton River. Oakland County, Michigan. The $2 million requested would be used for the Kuhn Drain - Red Run Restoration. The funding would be used for eliminating excess flow of storm water into the Kuhn Drain basin. Henry Ford Hospital the Henry Ford Regional Advanced Imaging Network. The $750,000 requested would be used to purchase advanced medical imaging systems (MRI/CT) for Bi-County Hospital in Warren, Michigan. Transportation/HUD Southfield Youth Center Committee. The $250,000 requested will be used to renovate and retro-fit approximately 12,000 square feet of community space in the former Southfield Library to house the newly approved Southfield Youth Center. The Southfield Youth Center Committee is a partnership between the City of Southfield, Lathrup Village, and Southfield Public Schools to provide safe and enriching activities in a supervised environment. Michigan Department of Transportation. The $5 million requested would be used for Rehabilitation of I-696 from M-53 to I-94. Road Commission for Oakland County. The $9 million requested would be used to reconstruct and expand Southfield Road to a six-lane Boulevard between 10 Mile Road and 11 Mile Road. Lawrence Technological University in Southfield, Michigan. The $3 million requested would be used to conduct a New Generation of Transportation Bridges & Infrastructure research program that includes the full-scale development, testing, environmental conditioning, and application of a new generation of highway bridge systems using innovative materials. Focus: HOPE. The $800,000 requested would be used for the final phase of renovations to Focus: HOPE’s Machinist Training Institute. Focus: HOPE is a nationally recognized civil and human rights organization in Detroit, Michigan. Charter Township of Clinton Downtown Development Authority. The $200,000 requested would be used for streetscape improvements on Gratiot Avenue. The Detroit Zoo in Royal Oak, Michigan. The $578,000 requested would be used for facilities upgrades to house Academy for Humane Education programs. Road Commission for Oakland County, Michigan. The $1.2 million requested would be used for signal system upgrades on Lahser Road from 9 Mile Road to 12 Mile Road. United Way for Southeastern Michigan. The $400,000 requested will enable United Way to build 114 ramps for low-income households in the 12th Congressional District of Michigan. Covenant House Michigan (CHM). The $500,000 requested would be used to make infrastructure and technology upgrades to its facility, including back-up generators, emergency lighting, wiring upgrades, and computers. CHM provides homeless, runaway and at-risk youth with education and vocational programs as well as other support services to help them toward a path to meaningful and successful adulthood. Charter Township of Royal Oak, Michigan. The $638,000 requested would be used for architectural and design phase of a municipal complex and recreation center. Oak Park Jewish Studies Campus. The $1 million requested would be used for improvements and renovations to an educational center and student housing. The Oak Park Jewish Studies Campus is affiliated with Chabad-Lubavitch, an internationally recognized humanitarian and charitable organization providing social services, outreach and mentorship to youth, families, immigrants and the elderly, from all socio-economic groups. Labor/HHS United Way of Southeastern Michigan. The $400,000 requested would help fund United Way’s Communities of Early Learning Initiative, which is designed to strengthen and enhance the ability of local communities to provide high-quality early care and education to children aged 0-6. The funding would help to establish four ELC “hubs,” one in Warren, one in Ferndale and two in Wayne County, to serve low-income children in the area as well as to help educate their parents on appropriate early childhood education and care. The State of Michigan. The $2 million requested would support the Michigan Health Information Network (MHIN) pilot program. MIHIN is part of the Governor Granholm’s tri-part plan for health care in Michigan which also includes a focus on expansion of coverage (Michigan First) and wellness. The MIHIN group consists of over 300 public and private healthcare stakeholders and Michigan will have the nation’s fist statewide network. Oakland Community College, Oakland County, Michigan. The $1.1 million requested would support Oakland Community College’s International Education Program. The goal of this pilot program is to develop a national model international education program for community colleges. Lawrence Technological University, Southfield, Michigan. The $500,000 requested would support the University’s Improving the Community/University Wireless Network. The requested funding would allow Lawrence Technological University to expand the University’s network beyond the campus boundaries to include the City of Southfield’s Civic Center Complex. This shared university/city network would extend public wireless access to citizens, attorneys, law enforcement, and businesses. Presbyterian Villages of Michigan (PVM). The $650,000 requested would be used by the non-profit Presbyterian Villages of Michigan to create a comprehensive job training, certification, and continuing education program for healthcare professionals working for PVM. Focus: HOPE. The $675,000 requested would support the Focus: HOPE Experimental Learning Laboratory. This funding would help fund the establishment of an experiential learning laboratory, related equipment and technology in support of expanded undergraduate programming at its Center for Advanced Technologies (CAT). CAT provides a tuition-free hands-on engineering education in conjunction with area university partners on location at production plants in the area. Focus: HOPE is a nationally recognized civil and human rights organization in Detroit, Michigan. Oakland Community College, Oakland, Michigan. The $1 million requested would support the College’s Emerging Sectors Program. Oakland Community College is taking the lead to establish a consortium of educational institutions in Oakland County and southeastern Michigan to support the Emerging Sectors initiative of Oakland County government. The purpose of the initiative is to attract companies with an assurance of full access to training and other education resources to create the skilled workforce needed for these high-wage, high–skill occupations. St. Joseph’s Healthcare in Clinton Twp., Michigan. The $2 million requested would support the expansion of St. Joseph’s Radiation Oncology program. The requested funding would be used by St. Joseph’s to upgrade their Radiation Oncology program by replacing their Linear Accelerator which has been in service for over 20 years. Covenant House of Michigan (CHM). The $600,000 requested would support the organization’s Mental Health Services for Homeless Youth. The Covenant House of Michigan (CHM) provides food, clothing, shelter and education for the hundreds of homeless youth in the metro Detroit area. The requested funding would allow CHM to add dedicated mental health services for at risk youth by hiring two mental health nurse practitioners to provide assistance for current CHM residents. Cyber Seniors, Experience Senior Power/Digital Divide (ESP/DD). The $942,400 requested would support the Experience Senior Power program, which pairs underprivileged children with senior citizens to teach both generations how to use computers and the Internet in nursing homes, senior apartment complexes, community centers and schools. This funding will help maintain and expand this important program. Homeland Security Macomb County, Michigan. The $1.25 million requested would support Macomb County, Michigan, deploy Interoperable Communications throughout the southern portion of this heavily populated, international border county were identified as the number one priority during the DHS State Homeland Security Assessment and Strategy Report of 2003. Southeast Oakland County SWAT. The $152,000 requested would support a SWAT Mobile Command Post. Southeast Oakland SWAT is a consortium of Ferndale, Royal Oak and Madison Heights which all contribute to and share a SWAT team. Currently, the consortium does not have a vehicle suitable for use as a critical incident command center. Having a mobile command vehicle will enable the region to more effectively respond to not only SWAT situations, but also to centralize a command structure to more effectively react to any serious incident requiring emergency response. Commerce, Justice, Science Macomb County, Michigan. The $1.25 million requested would support Macomb County, Michigan, deploy Interoperable Communications throughout the southern portion of this heavily populated, international border county were identified as the number one priority during the DHS State Homeland Security Assessment and Strategy Report of 2003. Southeast Oakland County SWAT. The $152,000 requested would support a SWAT Mobile Command Post. Southeast Oakland SWAT is a consortium of Ferndale, Royal Oak and Madison Heights which all contribute to and share a SWAT team. Currently, the consortium does not have a vehicle suitable for use as a critical incident command center. Having a mobile command vehicle will enable the region to more effectively respond to not only SWAT situations, but also to centralize a command structure to more effectively react to any serious incident requiring Oakland County Sheriff Department. The $693,000 requested would support the deployment of CLEMIS Live Scan Units. CLEMIS – the Courts and Law Enforcement Management Information System – is a law enforcement consortium of 105 law enforcement agencies in Southeast Michigan. The requested funding would provide Live Scan devices to 21 law enforcement agencies within the CLEMIS consortium. Live Scans obtain fingerprints to be electronically forwarded to CLEMIS as well as State and Federal law enforcement agencies for a rapid identity check, search of outstanding warrants, etc. Financial Services Macomb County, Michigan, Department of Planning and Economic Development. The $500,000 requested would support the creation of a Macomb County Business Accelerator as part of the Southeast Michigan Regional Innovation Network. The requested funding would be used for planning and start-up costs related to the creation of a Macomb County Business Accelerator. State, Foreign Ops Note: All requests in this bill are for report language requesting that the relevant agency give consideration to the projects, rather than directing such funding. Ukrainian Congress Committee of America. The $1.5 million requested for the organization’s Ukrainian Legislative Development Program is to provide training, technical support, and exchanges for a more effective, responsive, efficient national legislature in Ukraine. The program intends to establish itself with a relatively small group of “institutional reform champions” who can offer irreplaceable leadership in helping to carry momentum forward into more challenging areas of reform. Ukrainian Congress Committee of America. The $1.5 million requested would support the organization’s “NATO for Ukraine” Civic Education Program. The “NATO for Ukraine” project will educate Ukrainians about NATO through an all-encompassing civic education campaign in an effort to foster an open dialogue while empowering citizens with accurate information about the alliance. The program, which will bring together NATO experts and the general public in Town Hall meetings throughout the country, also employs traditional educational methods, including: focus groups; production and dissemination of informational brochures; Television and Radio public service announcements (psa’s); 3-part television series; and analytical newspaper articles. The Daughters of Charity International Project Services, Southfield, Michigan. The $6.1 million would support the organization’s Project DREAM HIV/AIDS Program in Congo and Cameroon. DREAM is 99% effective in preventing mother-to-child transmission and also restores the health of the mother to a high level, so that she can care for her children. The Daughters of Charity are about to establish new centers in the Congo and Cameroon. The five-year budget for the Congo is $3,188,700. The five-year budget for Cameroon is $2,914,770. (####)
07.26.2007	(Washington D.C.) - U.S. Representatives Candice Miller and Sander Levin today announced the allocation of $1.075 million in federal funding for interoperable communications for Macomb County Emergency Management. The funding was made possible through dual requests made by Reps. Miller (R-10) and Levin (D-12). The funding was approved by the full U.S. House of Representatives as part of the Commerce, Science, and Justice Appropriations Bill for FY08. The bill must still be approved in the Senate and signed by the President before it becomes law. “The county of Macomb and local jurisdictions have joined together to vastly improve interoperable communications. The County has made a $13.2 million investment in the infrastructure, and it is important that the federal government be a partner in ensuring full access by local jurisdictions,” said Reps. Candice Miller and Sander Levin, Macomb County’s two Members of Congress. “It is so critical that we have a partnership between federal, state, and local governments that can work together to secure every component of a communications system that will allow our first responders to communicate clearly with one another during an emergency,” said Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI). “Our first responders put themselves on the line day in and day out to protect lives and protect property, and they deserve no less than an effective communications system that allows them to strategically carry out their mission. “Securing this new federal funding would mean so much to the communities of Macomb County in meeting the large cost associated with the purchase of these vital emergency radios,” said Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “Allowing first responders to communicate across jurisdictions will enhance their cooperative capabilities, and make law enforcement efforts more efficient and citizens more secure. $700,000 in new funding will be split between the county emergency management and the following local communities: Clinton Township, Sterling Heights, Mount Clemens, Fraser, Eastpointe, and St. Clair Shores. $375,000 in new funding will be allocated to the county emergency management fund for Northern Macomb County and distributed to the communities who are most in need. “We will continue our efforts to ensure this appropriation becomes law and the targeted funding for Macomb County becomes a reality,” concluded Reps. Levin and Miller. (####)
07.24.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Standing up for one of our great natural resources, the House of Representatives will vote today on a resolution to express disapproval of the State of Indiana Department of Environmental Management for its decision to allow British Petroleum (BP) to dump ammonia and suspended solids into Lake Michigan. This resolution reflects the commitment from Congress to protect the waters of the Great Lakes, a crucial resource for the region. Under the new permit issued to British Petroleum (BP) by the state of Indiana, 1,584 pounds of ammonia and 4,925 pounds of total suspended solids will be dumped into Lake Michigan every day. Although the State of Indiana maintains that the increased chemical discharges would not violate federal and state water pollution rules, a bi-partisan group of Great Lakes lawmakers were adamant that the Whiting Plant is already a major polluter and any additional pollution would not be tolerated. Last week, Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-IL), Rep. Vern Ehlers (R-MI), and 30 other House members introduced House Concurrent Resolution 187, a resolution to express Congress’ disapproval of the permit to increase pollution at BP’s Whiting Plant. “For all that the Great Lakes region and Michigan offer, nothing is quite as valuable as our Great Lakes,” said Rep. Sander Levin, one of the bill’s co-sponsors. “Communities in Michigan have been working for years to steadily reduce water pollution. The decision to increase pollution at the BP refinery goes in exactly the wrong direction. We need to do more – not less – to protect the Great Lakes.” The decision to increase pollution at the BP refinery goes in exactly the wrong direction.” H.Con.Res.187 expresses the sense of Congress that: Congress expresses its disapproval of the Indiana Department of Environmental Management’s issuance of a permit allowing BP to increase their daily dumping of ammonia and total suspended solids into Lake Michigan; Congress urges the State of Indiana to reconsider issuance of a permit allowing BP to increase their daily dumping of ammonia and total suspended solids into Lake Michigan; Congress should take action to protect and restore the Great Lakes; The United States Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) actions in the Great Lakes basin should be consistent with the goal of preserving and restoring the Great Lakes; and The United States Environmental Protection Agency should not allow increased dumping of chemicals and pollutants into the Great Lakes. In addition, 19 members wrote to the Administrator of the EPA last week to request a formal review of the permit issued by the State of Indiana for BP’s Whiting plant. This letter, signed by both Democrats and Republicans, was co-signed by Rep. Levin. Please click here to view the full text of the letter, including the names of the co-signers. (####)
07.19.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the House of Representatives approved H.R. 3043, the “Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008.” This bill restores, in a fiscally responsible manner, funding for important education, labor, and health priorities. Some of these include increases in financial aid for college students, a strong investment in No Child Left Behind, expanding access to health care for the uninsured, and investing in medical research to cure life threatening diseases. “We are sending a clear signal that a main priority for the federal government is investing in American citizens,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “This budget says we will invest in health care, education, and medical research.” In addition, the bill provides $9 million in funding for Johanna’s Law. This law was named after Southfield-Lathrup High School teacher Johanna Silver Gordon, who died of Ovarian Cancer. It creates a national public information campaign targeted at women and health care providers to raise awareness about gynecologic cancers. “Such a significant investment just six months after being signed into law is an incredible victory in the fight against gynecologic cancers,” said Rep. Sander Levin. “This measure will help save the lives of countless women across the United States.” The appropriations bill adds a modest increase to the 2007 funding level, but is still nearly $3 billion lower than the 2005 levels enacted by the Republican-controlled Congress. The new appropriations include: Makes college more affordable by increasing the maximum Pell Grant by $390, which is on top of an increase of $260 the Democratic-led Congress enacted in February. Expands access to health care for the uninsured by investing in initiatives that will provide new access to health care for more than 2 million uninsured Americans. This bill provides $200 million in additional funding for community health centers, a primary caretaker for the uninsured. Boosts funding to vital medical research by $1 billion over President Bush’s budget. The Democratic Congress increased funding to the National Institute of Health budget, allowing for 545 new research grants at NIH. The University of Michigan is the 7th largest recipient nationwide of NIH grants, receiving nearly $370 million in research grants per year. Adds over a billion dollars to the President’s request for No Child Left Behind. This includes over $1 billion for Title I, the largest increase in the history of Title I. These increases give an additional 161,000 low-income children extra help with reading and math. Invests in education for children with disabilities. This bill increases the state grants for disabled children by $800 million over what the President requested. This helped the states pay for the gradual rising cost of special education. As electric bills are rising, the bill provides $2.7 billion for the low-income home energy assistance program (LIHEAP) which is 49% above the President’s request and 23% above current funding. Prohibits Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services from cutting funds for local hospitals. (####)
07.18.2007	(Washington D.C.) - With rising energy costs hitting consumers hard, and with growing concern over our dependence on foreign oil, the House of Representatives voted, 312 to 112, to significantly increase funding for renewable energy, energy efficiency, and new vehicle technology. The new research and development funding was included in the annual funding bill by the Department of Energy and the Army Corps of Engineers. The Energy and Water bill includes $1.9 billion for energy efficiency and renewable energy programs, including solar and geothermal energy research, biofuels development, energy efficient buildings, and weatherization grants. The bill passed by the House $638 million more on renewables and energy efficiency programs than was called for in the Bush Administration’s budget request. “With energy prices rising through the ceiling, we cannot continue business as usual,” said Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI). “We need to invest in developing sources of clean energy here at home. This bill does that.” The measure also includes $235 million for collaborative research between the federal government and industry to develop technology breakthroughs to reduce petroleum use by automobiles and trucks of all sizes, including R&D on lightweight materials, electronic power control, advanced batteries, and hybrid electric drive motors. The funding provided for vehicle technologies was $59 million more than the Bush Administration requested. The Energy and Water bill also provides a total of $5.5 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers. Part of the funding will begin to address a $1 billion backlog of operations and maintenance needs to sustain the nation’s coastal and inland navigation infrastructure as well as flood protection. The bill included $660,000 Rep. Levin requested on behalf of the City of Mount Clemens to dredge the Clinton River from the I-94 overpass west to the Crocker Street Bridge. The purpose of the dredging project is to remove sediment from the federally authorized navigation channel. "The dredging of the Clinton River through Mount Clemens is integral to the economic prosperity and quality of life in this City." said William J. Cooper, Mt. Clemens City Manager. "The dredging will increase the water quality by removing areas prone to sedimentation, and will create a blueway transportation route from Lake St. Clair to our downtown, promoting visitor traffic via the water to our City's shops, restaurants and public amenities." “Sedimentation has reduced the depth of the River in some locations to less than three feet, so it’s high time that the federal government dredged the channel,” added Rep. Levin. “Passage of this funding by the House is a good start. Now we have to get a final Energy and Water bill through the Congress and get the President to sign it.” A similar effort to win dredging funds for the Clinton River ran aground last year when the Republican Congress failed to take final action on the 2007 Energy and Water funding bill. (####)
07.18.2007	(Washington D.C.)- In response to a number of inquiries to his Congressional office regarding Iraqi refugees relocating to Macomb county communities, Rep. Sander Levin issued the following statement: “The information released today by the City of Warren is inaccurate and misleading. My office talked to the State Department today and was informed of the following: The United States has made an overall commitment to a larger international effort to only re-settle 25,000 of the approximately 2.2 million Iraqis that have been displaced or placed in harms way because of the Iraq war. This resettlement would occur over a number of years and over nine different regions in the country. While the hope was to re-settle 7,000 this year, the State Department has recently informed the international community that the U.S. can process at most only 2,000 individuals nationwide by the end of September 2007. The State Department stated that the priority basis for eligibility for refugee resettlement is not based on a contact with a family or other person already living in a community and therefore there is no basis for projecting specific allocation of refugees to a specific community. “As I reiterated last week, I believe that we must dramatically change course in Iraq, and set out a timeframe for beginning to redeploy U.S. troops from Iraq. The U.S. has historically joined with other nations in assisting individuals fleeing from religious, ethnic or other persecution. I am confident that we will do so responsibly regarding refugees from Iraq which cannot happen based on the spread of inaccurate or misleading information.” (####)
07.18.2007	(Washington D.C.)- In a unanimous vote, the House Ways and Means Committee approved legislation today to strengthen protections of Americans’ Social Security Numbers (SSNs). Recent reports indicate that between 10 and 15 million individuals are victims of some form of identity theft every year. Law enforcement experts and the Government Accountability Office have all reported that the SSN is the most valuable piece of information for identity thieves because it unlocks access to other personally identifiable information and is often relied upon by creditors and other businesses to authenticate identity. “In the wrong hands our Social Security Number unlocks personal and financial information compromising our security and jeopardizing our finances,” said Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), an original co-sponsor of the bill. “Today we establish additional safeguards to protect privacy and maintain the integrity of the SSN while striking a balance and allowing for law enforcement and other legitimate operations to use these numbers to keep Americans safe.” The SSN is easily obtained from public and private records because of its use as a primary identifier. These records are often just as easily obtainable by identity thieves as legitimate users of the information. While Federal and Michigan law protects consumers from identity theft, there is no single comprehensive framework that protects the privacy of SSNs. This legislation provides a basic framework to help states strengthen existing identity theft protections. In addition to restricting the availability of SSNs, the bill includes other provisions to keep SSNs private. These include: • Prohibiting Federal, State, local governments, and the private sector from selling, purchasing and displaying SSNs. • Allowing exemptions for legitimate financial and law enforcement use, including the prevention of terrorism. • Prohibiting Federal, State, local governments, and the private sector from displaying SSNs on checks, government-issued ID, or requiring the transmission of SSNs without encryption on the internet. • Requiring the government and the private sector protect the SSNs they acquire lawfully from unauthorized access by employees or others. • Creating new criminal penalties (up to 5 years imprisonment and a fine up to $250,000) for any misuse of the SSN, and includes additional penalties (up to 10 years) for repeat offenders. (####)
07.12.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the House of Representatives is debating H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. The legislation requires the Secretary of Defense to begin the redeployment of U.S. combat troops from Iraq within 120 days of enactment, and complete the reduction in U.S. forces by April 1, 2008. The debate occurs on the same day that the Bush Administration released an interim report on Iraq. In the report, the Administration concedes that the Iraqi government has failed to meet key benchmarks endorsed by the President in January. A final vote on H.R. 2956 is expected later this afternoon. Speaking in support of the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, Rep. Levin said, “It has become painfully obvious that the White House is incapable of changing course in Iraq. The Bush Administration’s talking points about the situation in Iraq change from week to week, but the fundamental strategy remains the same. The President is determined that our troops will remain in Iraq no matter what.” Rep. Levin’s full statement appears below: Mr. Speaker: I rise in support of the rule and urge my colleagues to support the bill. It has become painfully obvious that the White House is incapable of changing course in Iraq. The Bush Administration’s talking points about the situation in Iraq change from week to week, but the fundamental strategy remains the same. The President is determined that our troops will remain in Iraq no matter what. The latest White House talking points are aimed at getting the American people to believe that the surge in Iraq just began a couple weeks ago, instead of six months ago. In fact, the President announced the surge back on January 10, and the troop escalation began in early February. The White House is emphasizing today that it finds that Iraq is making “satisfactory” progress in some areas, such as the cooperation between U.S. forces and tribal sheiks in Anbar province as well as the formation of a Constitutional Review Committee, although the constitutional review itself is not complete. The reality is that the Iraqi Government has not approved a law to share Iraq’s oil wealth. It has not enacted legislation to reform the De-Ba’athification laws. It has not disarmed the militias. It has not made progress on ensuring that Iraqi Security Forces are providing even-handed enforcement of the law. It has not made progress toward increasing the number of Iraqi Security Forces units capable of operating independently. It has not made satisfactory progress toward establishing a date for provincial elections. In the past six months, nearly 600 or our troops have died. More than 13,000 Iraqis have died. The level of violence in Iraq has not decreased. The violence and attacks have simply shifted away from places where our forces are concentrated. Six months into the surge, there is no indication that the Iraqis are coming together to make the political decisions necessary to end the sectarian violence that is tearing their country apart. Time has shown that whatever small chance there is of the Iraqi factions coming together, it will not happen as long as the U.S. military commitment in Iraq remains open-ended. We need to change course. The bill before the House does just that. It requires the Department of Defense to begin a phased and orderly redeployment of our combat troops from Iraq starting in 120 days of enactment, with the troop reduction to be complete by April 1, 2008. No other way has worked to convince the Iraqis that they need to step up and reach a political settlement to end the sectarian violence. (####)
07.11.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin today voted for legislation that would make the largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill. This bill helps millions of Americans pay for college, at no cost to taxpayers. This legislation, the College Cost Reduction act of 2007 (H.R. 2669), which the House passed by a vote of 273 to 149, would boost college financial aid by about $18 billion over the next five years. This provides nearly $513 million over 5 years in loans and grant aid for Michigan students and families. The legislation pays for itself by reducing excessive federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry by $19 billion. It also includes nearly $1 billion in federal budget deficit reduction. The Senate is expected to vote on similar legislation this month. “Two thirds of the new jobs created in the next decade will require a college degree,” said Rep. Levin. “Improving access to higher education is vital to expanding opportunity for Michigan students and building Michigan’s economic future. This has to be an ongoing priority for the federal government and this legislation is an important step in the right direction.” Under the legislation, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship would increase by $500 over the next five years, from $4,050 to $5,200. This would benefit over 200,000 Michigan students headed to college by 2011, by raising the purchasing power of the Pell Grant. About 6 million low- and moderate-income students nationwide would benefit from this increase. The legislation would cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, reducing the cost of those loans for millions of student borrowers. Like legislation passed by the House earlier this year, the College Cost Reduction Act would cut interest rates from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent in equal steps over the next five years. Once fully phased-in, this would save the typical Michigan student borrower—nearly 150,000 students, borrowing on average $13,256—just over $ 4,200 over the life of the loan. The College Cost Reduction Act includes a number of other provisions that would ease the financial burden imposed on students and families by the cost of college, including: o Tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schools; o Loan forgiveness for college graduates that go into public service professions; o Increased federal loan limits so that students won’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans; o New tuition cost containment strategies; and o Landmark investments in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions and minority serving institutions. o Debt relief and loan forgiveness for borrowers in economic hardship. President Franklin Roosevelt signed the GI Bill into law in 1944. The original law enabled 7.8 million veterans of the Second World War to participate in education or job training programs. H.R. 2669 has been endorsed by a coalition of labor, student, and University groups, including the United States Student Assocation, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, and the American Association of Community Colleges. (####)
06.22.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), along with Chairmen Charles Rangel and Barney Frank and Ways and Means Members Reps. Pete Stark, Jim McDermott, John Lewis, Richard Neal, Earl Pomeroy, Stephanie Tubbs Jones, John Larson, Earl Blumenauer, Ron Kind, and Bill Pascrell introduced legislation that would ensure that investment fund managers who take a share of the funds’ profits as compensation for investment management services, known as “carried interest” would be taxed at an appropriate ordinary income tax rate. Currently, the managers of private investment partnerships are able to receive compensation for these services at the much lower 15% capital gains tax rate rather that the ordinary income tax rate by virtue of their fund’s partnership structure. “Congress must ensure that our tax code is fair. We have to be sure that the lower capital gains tax rate is not being inappropriately substituted for the tax rate on wages and earnings,” said Rep. Levin. “Investment fund employees should not pay a lower rate of tax on their compensation for services than other Americans,” continued Rep. Levin. “These investment managers are being paid to provide a service to their limited partners and fairness requires they be taxed at the rates applicable to service income just as any other American worker.” The legislation clarifies that any income received from a partnership in compensation for services is ordinary income for tax purposes. As a result, the managers of investment partnerships who receive a carried interest as compensation will pay regular income tax rates rather than capital gains rates on that compensation. The capital gains rate will continue to apply to the extent that the managers’ income represents a reasonable return on capital they have actually invested in the partnership. The Ways and Means Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing on the issue of tax fairness in July. Below is a fact sheet on the legislation. For a copy of the text of the bill please click here. To speak to Mr. Levin, please contact Hilarie Chambers (202) 225-4961 or at Hilarie.Chambers@mail.house.gov Rep. Levin Proposal on Investment Management Services Taxation Why is Congress concerned about this issue? Many investment funds are structured as partnerships in which investors become limited partners and the funds’ managers are the general partner. The managers often take a considerable portion of their compensation for managing the funds’ investments as a share of the funds’ profits using a mechanism called “carried interest.” Partnership profits are taxed not to the partnership; instead partners are taxed on allocations of partnership income, and the nature of that income (capital or ordinary) “flows-through” to the partners. As a result, the investment managers are able to have income for performance of services taxed at the 15% capital gains rate. Essentially they are able to pay a lower tax rate on income from their work than other Americans simply because of the structure of their firm. What does the legislation do? It clarifies that any income received from a partnership in compensation for services is ordinary income for tax purposes. As a result, the managers of investment partnerships who receive a carried interest as compensation will pay regular income tax rates rather than capital gains rates on that compensation. The capital gains rate will continue to apply to the extent that the managers’ income represents a reasonable return on capital they have actually invested in the partnership. What kinds of investment firms will be affected? This is part of a broad consideration of tax fairness. The principle at work is that compensation for services should be treated as ordinary income and taxed accordingly, regardless of its source. Any investment management firm that takes a share of an investment fund’s profits as its compensation (i.e. in the form of carried interest), will be affected. This will apply to any investment management firm without regard to the type of assets, whether they are financial assets or real estate. The test is the form of compensation, not the type of assets the firm is managing, its investment strategy, or the amount of compensation involved. Will this affect the investors in these funds? No. The legislation would not affect the tax rate of any person or institution who invests money in a fund whose managers receive a carried interest in compensation for their services. This includes the fund’s managers to the extent they have invested their own money. It also would not affect the tax status of any company a fund invests in. It only affects the managers who are receiving a carried interest in compensation for their services and are paying the lower capital gains tax rate on that income rather than ordinary income tax rates. Would this affect REITs? To the extent that a Real Estate Investment Trust is receiving income in the form of a carried interest in another real estate partnership, this would affect the character of income received for purposes of determining the character of income distributed to shareholders. The legislation would not affect an entity’s ability to qualify as a REIT. Would this affect publicly traded partnerships? Yes, if more than 10% of a publicly traded partnership’s income comes from a carried interest covered by the legislation, they will be taxed as a corporation. What is the effective date of the legislation? This legislation is designed to create a structure under which this income should be taxed. Decisions on the effective date will be made as part of the legislative process. (####)
06.20.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, made the following statement today at the International Trade Commission: Honorable Sander Levin, ChairmanWays and Means Trade Subcommittee International Trade CommissionJune 20, 2007 Testimony As Prepared for Delivery The negotiation of the U.S. - Korea Free Trade Agreement is indeed significant. Korea is the United States’ seventh largest trading partner and the world’s eleventh largest economy. The U.S.-Korea FTA is the largest and most commercially significant bilateral FTA negotiated by the Bush Administration. For policy-makers, the U.S. Korea FTA is a key test of the approach we take to trade policy. It is a test of whether we need to shape the terms of expanded trade or assume, no matter how unbalanced, that leaving it alone to work out on its own is the best approach. It is a test, specifically, of whether we will be active, or passive in the face of long-standing, harmful practices of the Korean government to discriminate against our products in their domestic market. It is a test of our willingness to stand up for our domestic industry. The role of the International Trade Commission (ITC) is a vital one, in that you are charged with providing independent analysis of the economic impact of the recently concluded trade agreement with South Korea. You have evaluated this trading relationship for many years, including in the 2001 report, U.S.-Korea FTA: The Economic Impact of Establishing a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) Between the United States and the Republic of Korea. As the ITC has itself documented in its numerous analyses of Korean trade practices, the Korean government has established and managed an economic iron curtain against all imported autos, using a powerful and extremely effective combination of tariffs, prohibitive and discriminatory taxes, and regulations designed specifically for the purpose of keeping imports out. The facts tell the real-life story. Korea is the fifth largest producer, and the ninth largest consumer automotive market in the world. We now have an $11 billion deficit in automotive trade which is 87% of the total deficit between our two countries. Last year, Korea sold 700,000 vehicles in the U.S.; the U.S. sold only 4,556 in Korea. It is important when evaluating this level of import penetration, to look at the figures for other nations. The average level of automotive imports in the 30 OECD countries is over 40%. Korea’s auto import rate of 3.6% puts it at 30th out of 30, or the bottom of all OECD countries. Today, you will hear compelling testimony on the history of our trading relationship with Korea in the automotive sector. You will hear from Ford Motor Company which has tried to break through the Korean market about the extensive use of discriminatory tax structures and non-tariff barriers used by Korea to keep its auto market closed. We also know through experience – two previous Korean formal automotive trade agreements that the United States called the 1995 and 1998 “Memorandums of Understanding” (MOUs) – that it is very difficult to move the Koreans to end these non-tariff barriers to U.S. exports. Against this backdrop, I believe the FTA as negotiated will simply lock in a structure of one-way trade between the two industrialized nations and allow the Korean auto industry to continue an export driven strategy using the profits from their protected home market to fund R & D and broader incursions into the US and other major markets. It is the wholesale acceptance of this completely imbalanced and damaging trade model that the US has actually rewarded in this FTA that I find so damaging and so dangerous. Discriminatory Taxes Korea has long used its tax structure to discriminate against imported vehicles. The FTA reduces – but does not eliminate – two discriminatory taxes and leaves a third tax completely intact. The Industry Trade Advisory Committee to USTR and U.S. auto companies have long recommended that we negotiate an end to Korea’s use of engine displacement as a basis for accessing its unusually high automotive taxes. Three of Korea=s eight automotive taxes are based on engine displacement, which disproportionately falls on U.S. vehicles and other imports with larger engines. The final agreement only modifies two of these taxes by reducing the number of displacement categories or tiers and lowering some tax rates. The modifications to the consumption tax phase in over three years and the modifications to the annual vehicle registration tax – while immediate – continue to place U.S. exports in the highest category – a category 40% higher than the one that applies to most Korean automobiles. As to the discriminatory subway bond tax, it is not eliminated, but simply capped at current levels. We all know from the personal experience of carrying rebate receipts around in our wallets until they expire, that any additional effort by the Korean government to publicly advertise this rebate to consumers will not mitigate the upfront impact of paying the tax. Existing Non-Tariff Barriers During the course of the negotiations, four existing non-tariff barriers were identified by the auto industry. The result was not elimination, but delay of one onerous discriminatory regulation, delay of another with an exemption dependent on a low volume of sales, an artificial resolution of the third and no handling of the fourth. On-Board Diagnostics (OBD II) regulation – The FTA simply delays the phase in for compliance, it does nothing to change the fact that the Korean OBD applies a different testing regime than the U.S. OBD regulation so U.S. companies will have to pay for expensive new tests just for this market. Self-certification safety standards – Again, the recommendation was to eliminate, but the Agreement provides only a two-year moratorium and an exemption dependent on a low volume of sales. If you sell less than 6, 500 units you can meet the U.S. standards, if you sell more than 6,500 units you would have to comply with unique Korean standards that contain within them 42 different regulations. Low Emission Vehicle regulation – The recommendation was to ensure that vehicles certified for sale in California be deemed in compliance with Korean emissions requirement. The FTA harmonizes with the California regulation but the fleet averaging provision implemented for an auto company’s much smaller Korean fleet would have a very different impact. Insurance regulation – USTR refused to address a new discriminatory practice by Korean auto insurance policies that arbitrarily place imported vehicles in the highest risk classification. The result is that owners of imported vehicles will pay the highest premium possible for their auto insurance. USTR also includes on its list of accomplishments that the FTA re-states the same ineffective commitments of previous agreements: Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) – The agreement contains a commitment to abide by the WTO’s TBT agreement. These provisions are either identical to the MOU commitments or the WTO TBT agreement, both of which have failed to provide effective mechanisms to open Korea’s highly protected auto market. This is not a breakthrough. Anti-import bias – The FTA uses hortatory language similar to the MOUs that neither party will discourage purchase of goods or services of the other parties. Korea did not comply before and there is no reason to think that it will now. The claim by USTR in its fact sheet that the “agreement contains a comprehensive package of unprecedented provisions that will ensure the Korean market is open to U.S. automobile manufacturers” seems incredulous upon examination beneath the surface of these provisions and is made even worse by the ineffective mechanism for dispute settlement. Dispute Settlement Since the FTA was concluded, USTR has heralded as “innovative” the dispute settlement system for auto-related measures. Indeed, the only thing “innovative” about it might be that the expedited structure assures failure sooner. The dispute settlement system requires the U.S. to demonstrate both “nullification and impairment of expected benefits” and that the measure at issue has “materially affected the sale” of U.S. automotive products. This will make it even more difficult to win a case than it is to win a case under WTO dispute settlement rules. In addition, the heralded Asnap back@ is limited to the reimposition of the 2.5% auto tariff and incredulously does not include the meaningful 25% pick-up truck tariff. And, if the dispute settlement mechanism is not used successfully within ten years, it goes away completely. By contrast, the bi-partisan Congressional Proposal to Open Korea’s Automotive Market contained a truly innovative approach to Korea’s revolving sets of hurdles and pervasive web of obstacles – a dispute settlement system with a reverse burden of proof so that U.S. companies could get relief based upon reasonable evidence of a discriminatory measure while the Koreans had the burden to establish that the measure did not exist or does not operate to afford protection to a domestic industry in Korea. Future Non-Tariff Barriers The FTA creates an “automotive working group” tasked with providing a “specialized early warning system to address regulatory issues that may develop in the future.” The reality is this group is not mandated to meet even once, and most of its monitoring tasks appear to be discretionary based on the repeated use of the word, “should” to describe its responsibilities. It is vital that the ITC and others take a hard look at the results of the negotiations because I believe the approach taken by USTR toward these negotiations was fundamentally flawed from the onset. Their approach resulted from a combination of factors, based on all of the evidence I can glean from key parties, including Congressional hearings and my own conversations with USTR during the course of the negotiations. The first factor appeared to be an indifference and ignorance about domestic manufacturing. USTR contended in our discussions that the 2.5% tariff meant little to Korea because more and more Korean production was shifting to the U.S. This flew in the face of numerous public comments by Korean government officials that one of their top priorities in the whole negotiation was the immediate elimination of US automotive tariffs. Of course, this position by USTR also ignores the Japanese experience where domestic production has not replaced exports to the U.S. and it ignores the high level of Korean content in cars assembled here. It also completely discounts that advantage that our competitors draw from protecting their home markets and investing these huge profits into research and development. There was also no one person within the higher echelons of USTR with a background in the motor vehicle or other manufacturing industries and I have heard from several sources that the one person designated to negotiate the auto sector was shut out of the final negotiations. Astonishingly, after the agreement was noticed and USTR continued to negotiate several key details, including tariff schedules, they were unaware that U.S. companies produce hybrid automobiles. The second factor appeared to be a callous calculation about the type of votes necessary for passage of this bilateral FTA. Beef, rice, autos – all being played off one another in the search for votes. We were told that the 25% pick-up truck tariff – an issue far too important and sensitive to be handled in any bilateral negotiations rather than the WTO round – could not be taken off the table because the Koreans wanted to take rice off the table. What happened? Rice is off the table, and the truck tariff is on the chopping block. The beef issue was simply punted allowing Korea to show magnanimity at a later date to boost chances for passage of the FTA. In my judgment, we needed a very different approach. An approach based on our keen knowledge of how the Korean automotive market has been built on a government directed industrial policy based on maintaining a closed market and driven by our desire to standup for domestic manufacturing. At the beginning of March, a broad, bi-partisan group of legislators transmitted to the President a specific negotiating position that moved beyond previous negotiating strategies and embarked on a new approach that conditions Korea obtaining additional access to the U.S. market on reciprocal opening of the Korean automotive market. Each of the Big 3 was solidly behind this innovative approach. I am afraid that USTR’s knee jerk negative reaction that this proposal was somehow “managed” trade was driven by blind ideology and not the need for an effective trade policy in a globalizing economy. USTR never suggested a formula of its own to be certain to address what was the true industrial policy – Korean’s closed market. Perhaps it rejected ideas supported be all three domestic companies because at the end of the day they knew that GM’s majority ownership of a Korean auto company would neutralize its opposition. By giving away the 2.5% auto tariff and negotiating down the 25% pick-up truck tariff without linking it to concrete results in assuring the end of Korea’s unfair non-tariff barrier structure, USTR has locked in the status quo and worse in Korea. Korean automakers win $217 million in auto tariff reductions from the FTA while tariff reductions for U.S. automakers amount to just $12 million. In addition, press reports have already detailed Korean intentions to jumpstart pick-up truck production to take advantage of the bi-lateral phase out of this meaningful tariff. The U.S.- Korea FTA also sets a horrible precedent for future bilateral trade agreements in the region and especially in the negotiations ongoing in the World Trade Organization. I am certain that other trading partners will be using the deal that Korea got to secure the same for themselves. The failure to effectively address Korean non-tariff barriers completely undercuts the already moribund effort in the WTO to meaningfully address barriers and other issues in the entire global trading system that seriously disadvantage American businesses and workers in manufacturing and other sectors. Thus, I urge you to take great care in assessing the economic impact of the provisions concerning Korean NTBs covering these products. In particular, you should recall that Korea in previous WTO agreements (such as the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade) and in bilateral agreements with the United States already agreed to eliminate discriminatory taxes and other “unnecessary obstacles to trade”. Any economic assessment of those past agreements already would have taken those commitments into account. To the extent Korea has once again committed itself to stop imposing non-tariff barriers on U.S. exports, those commitments merely duplicate existing commitments – commitments Korea has failed to honor. The ITC’s economic assessment should take that history into account. Congress will have to consider all of these issues after the ITC completes it work. As we seek to set a new course for U.S. trade policy, this FTA’s complete acquiescence to one-way trade is unacceptable and does not merit the support of Congress. It must be re-negotiated. (####)
06.15.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Today the U.S. House of Representatives debates HR 2642, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2008. The bill contains historic increases in Veterans Administration (VA) spending, increasing the VA budget by $6.7 billion above the Fiscal Year 2007 level. “This new Congress has replaced rhetoric with real action to demonstrate our commitment to our nation’s veterans,” said Rep. Levin. “Stories of long-waiting times, case backlogs and inadequate conditions are completely unacceptable, and this budget bill will begin to make up for years of neglect and inadequate funding.” Since the 110th Congress convened in January, the House has made veterans’ issues a top priority: - A Continuing Resolution that increased veterans’ health care by $3.6 billion over the 2007 budget levels- An Iraq funding bill that provides an additional $1.7 billion for veterans’ health care- The Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act, to develop a program that regularly screens and monitors all veterans for risk factors of suicide- The Returning Servicemember VA Healthcare Insurance Act, to extend the period of health care eligibility from two years to five years for service members returning from combat- The Traumatic Brain Injury Health Enhancement and Long-Term Support Act, to authorize new research centers for traumatic brain injuries and require the establishment of a comprehensive program to treat traumatic brain injuries at VA health centers The House has also taken swift action to address the very serious and disturbing concerns that surfaced as a result of the Walter Reed Army Medical Center scandal, which resulted in the firings of several top officials in the Department of the Army, as well as oversight hearings in both the House and Senate. The House-passed Iraq supplemental included $550 million to address the maintenance backlog at VA health facilities. Additionally, the House approved the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, which would add caseworkers and counselors to the military's medical system, establish a toll-free hotline for patients and family members to report problems with medical facilities, and set up a pilot program to improve the transition from military to civilian life for wounded combat veterans. “While we can never fully repay our nation's veterans for their service and sacrifice, we must, at a minimum, do our very best to ensure that they are properly cared for when they return home. I can think of no greater way to honor our troops, past and present, than to provide them with adequate benefits, comprehensive health care coverage, and an efficient and effective VA,” concluded Rep. Levin. (####)
06.08.2007	I am hoping you can help spread the word about a wonderful, but time-sensitive, opportunity for students living in the 12th Congressional District: the U.S. House of Representatives Page program. This is a wonderful opportunity for students. High school pages learn about Congress, as they live in Washington DC, enter a semester-long course of study and work as support staff for the House of Representatives. I now have the opportunity to nominate an applicant for the 2007 fall session. The three-month session begins with check-in on Sunday, September 2, 2007 and ends Friday January 25, 2008. Qualified applicants need to be at least 16 years of age prior to the start of the program and must be a junior in high school, and must have a 3.0 GPA in their major subjects. There are no exceptions to these requirements. Please click here for information on the House page program such as Page responsibilities, housing, compensation, and the Page School. Students who are interested should submit the following: Democratic Page Application (including Essay) Signed Student Consent Form (Requirements for Being a Page) Signed Declaration of "Parental Consent" Form 3 Letters of Recommendations from school officials, community or religious leaders. Please contact our office for a complete application. The application must be completed and returned to the district office at 27085 Gratiot Avenue, Roseville, Michigan 48066, no later than Thursday, June 29th. A review board will then evaluate applications and nominate one applicant from the 12th Congressional District for consideration by the Democratic House Leadership. I do want to emphasize that over 40 Members of Congress will be nominating applicants for only 24 page positions. Thank you in advance for your assistance in providing this information to interested students. Please contact Judy Hartwell at (586) 498-7122 for more information or additional questions. (####)
05.23.2007	(Washington D.C.)- WASHINGTON –Michigan Democrats today laid out a comprehensive agenda to revitalize our domestic manufacturing industry and respond to the loss of millions of U.S. manufacturing jobs. Their American Manufacturing Initiative (AMI) would bring together government, private industry, and academia in a robust partnership aimed at turning around the manufacturing sector of the U.S. economy. The Michigan Democrats – including Governor Jennifer M. Granholm, Sen. Carl Levin, Rep. John Dingell, Sen. Debbie Stabenow, Rep. John Conyers, Rep. Dale Kildee, Rep. Sander Levin, Rep. Bart Stupak, and Rep. Carolyn Kilpatrick -- said that they will push to enact the provisions into law, and they will also press presidential candidates of both parties to take a position on the AMI. “We are determined to get manufacturing issues into the presidential campaign,” the Michigan Democrats said. “No other country stands by and watches its manufacturing sector decline. Other governments aggressively provide tax incentives, research and development grants, and health insurance. The Bush administration does none of these and even tolerates other countries manipulating their currency to subsidize their exports and placing barriers to our products entering their countries.” The American Manufacturing Initiative focuses on six areas: • manufacturing incentives; • trade policies, including currency manipulation and barriers to U.S. products; • health care support; • advanced vehicle development; • fuel conservation and biofuels, and • Department of Defense initiatives. Through major government investment in the development of advanced technology vehicles and vigorous promotion of the use of alternative fuels, the AMI would stimulate manufacturing job creation in America, increase our security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and help our environment by reducing greenhouse gases and emissions. Governor Granholm: “Michigan’s workers and employers need fast action on the AMI to ensure our success in the global economy. The American Manufacturing Initiative sets the federal government in motion to help rejuvenate manufacturing throughout the Great Lakes states and across the nation. After years of damaging and neglectful federal manufacturing policies, our leaders in Washington have positioned themselves to fight back with a prescription for relief, including federal automotive and fuel technology incentives, health care cost relief, and better policing of foreign trade practices.” Senator Levin: "We’ve lost three million manufacturing jobs in America in the last six years and this administration has done nothing to match what other governments do to promote manufacturing. That neglect must end. Our manufacturers aren’t competing with companies abroad; they are competing with countries that aggressively support their manufacturers. We need to do the same.” Rep. Dingell: "Manufacturers are hurting in large part due to this Administration’s lax attitude toward unfair trade practices, currency manipulation, spiraling health care costs, and pension insecurity. A plan to expand our manufacturing capacity is long overdue." Sen. Stabenow: “America needs a comprehensive manufacturing policy that strengthens our economy and creates good jobs here at home. We need to make a real investment in education and innovation, take the skyrocketing cost of health care off the back of business, and insist that foreign competitors play by the same rules as our manufacturers. On a level playing field American manufacturers can compete with anyone and win. This isn’t just an economic issue, this is a fight for our way of life, and we must stand up for American jobs, American businesses and America’s working families.” Rep. Levin: "From health care, tax policy and especially international trade policy, the federal government must be a more active partner in addressing the national manufacturing jobs crisis. Michigan businesses and workers can compete in the global marketplace if the playing field is level and trading rules are enforced." Domestic manufacturers are at a huge competitive disadvantage compared to foreign governments. They have billions in legacy costs -- health care costs assumed by U.S. automakers add about $1,000 to the cost of each American car sold in this country. And they face the manipulation of currency exchange by foreign governments, which subsidize their competitors’ exports, as well as trade barriers blocking our products. For example, Japan’s aggressive currency manipulation results in Japanese cars being sold for $3,000-$10,000 cheaper than they otherwise would – essentially a Japanese government subsidy. Likewise, American exports to Japan essentially face a “tax” of that amount. The Michigan Democrats argue that our government needs to create a level playing field for our manufacturers as aggressively as the actions of governments of our trading partners. (####)
05.22.2007	I. MANUFACTURING INCENTIVES AND MANDATES A. Research and Development Tax Credit 1. Permanent Extension of R&D Tax Credit – Strengthens the credit by increasing the Alternative Simplified Credit rate and making the entire credit permanent. B. Vehicle Mandates and Goals 1. Flexible Fuel Vehicle Mandate – Require auto manufacturers to produce 25 percent of new vehicles sold capable of running on E85 or other biofuels by 2010, increasing to 50 percent by 2012 . 2. Technology Goal – Establish a goal that by 2020, manufacturers will sell only new vehicles that 1) utilize advanced technology (such as hybrid, clean diesel, or fuel cells) or alternative fuel; or 2) utilize an internal combustion engine that achieves at least 35 miles per gallon. Provide incentives to encourage manufacturers to meet this goal in advance of 2020. If a manufacturer commits to meet this goal before 2020, and meets measurable milestones, that company would no longer have to meet annual CAFE requirements under section V.C.1. but would be required to certify annually continued progress toward meeting the 2020 technology goal. C. Tax Credits - Advanced Technology and Flexible Fuel Vehicles 1. Tax Incentives for Manufacturing – Provide manufacturers an investment tax credit to re-tool or expand existing domestic facilities to produce advanced technology vehicles or certain parts or components for those vehicles. Provide manufacturers tax credit to offset cost of building FFV-capability into new vehicles. 2. Consumer Tax Credits – Increase the amount and extend the period of availability of the consumer tax credit in current law for purchase of advanced technology vehicles, including hybrids, plug-in hybrids, clean diesels, and fuel cell vehicles. D. Programs to Support U.S. Manufacturing 1. Technology Competitiveness Program – Rename, strengthen and enhance the Advanced Technology Program (ATP) at the National Institute of Standards and Technology making selected investments in research and technology areas critical to support U.S. global economic competitiveness through the stimulation of cooperation between universities, small entrepreneurial businesses, state economic development organizations, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Improve the role of the federal government in helping American small and medium sized manufacturers to be more competitive in a global economy. 2. Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program (MEP) – Increase funding for the MEP Program, which co-funds a nationwide system of manufacturing support centers to assist small and mid-sized manufacturers modernize to compete in a demanding marketplace by providing technical assistance and helping small firms boost productivity, streamline operations, integrate new technologies and lower costs. II. TRADE A. Fair Trade Enforcement 1. Currency Manipulation – Direct the President to pursue cases in the WTO against China and Japan under WTO rules that prohibit members from gaining a trade advantage from currency manipulation. Amend U.S. countervailing duty law to expand the authority of the administering authority or the International Trade Commission (ITC) to impose countervailing duties on products from nonmarket economy countries and make exchange rate misalignment by any foreign nation as a countervailable export subsidy. Require that USTR's annual National Trade Estimate report include as defined trade barriers: currency misalignment, non-ILO labor practices and weak or non-existent environmental standards. 2. Trade Enforcement, Market Access and Protection of Intellectual Property – Direct the President to appoint a Special Trade Prosecutor at USTR and to aggressively enforce trade laws. Enhance resources to deter, detect, seize and prosecute counterfeit imports and pursue trade action for failure to meet commitments to reduce IPR infringement levels. 3. Open Korea's Closed Automotive Market – Insist on a two-way street in trade with Korea in autos and auto parts. The currently negotiated U.S.-Korea free trade agreement fails to effectively tear down Korea's non-tariff barriers, prevent Korea from using future non-tariff barriers to maintain its closed market, and ensure access to imports to Korea's automotive market. 4. Make China Play By International Rules – China is a member of the WTO and is obligated to play by the same rules as everyone else. Direct USTR to file additional cases at the WTO as appropriate to challenge China's non-compliance. 5. Address Non-Tariff Barriers in WTO Negotiations – Direct the Administration to place non-tariff barriers on par with tariff barriers in negotiations at the WTO. Trade negotiators must ensure through explicit linkages that U.S. tariff barriers will not be reduced unless other countries tackle the non-tariff barriers they use to keep out U.S. products. III. HEALTH CARE A. Health Care Tax Incentives 1. Catastrophic Health Care Expenses – Amend the tax code to provide federal catastrophic health care insurance to pick up 50 percent of health care costs above a certain threshold ($50,000 in 2006, for instance) for all workers with company-provided coverage for manufacturers operating in the U.S. 2. Health Care Expenses – Provide as an alternative to the current tax deduction for manufacturers a tax credit for a portion of health care premiums paid for their oldest active or retired employees (aged 55-64). 3. Early Retiree Health Care Tax Credit – Allow certain early retirees to receive an immediate 65 percent refundable health care tax credit, providing manufacturers some relief from these costs and therefore reducing manufacturing costs. IV. ADVANCED VEHICLE DEVELOPMENT A. Initiatives for Longer-Term Advanced Technologies 1. Advanced Technology Vehicle R&D – Increase joint industry-government R&D on advanced batteries, clean diesel, diesel hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and flex fuel hybrid technologies; increase R&D on hydrogen storage and fuel cell membranes and catalysts; expand demonstrations of fuel cell fleet vehicles. 2. Hydrogen Infrastructure – Increase tax credit available for hydrogen refueling equipment (to up to 50 percent of cost, up to $50,000). Provide federal funding for demonstration of a hydrogen refueling highway and demonstration of hydrogen refueling infrastructure and equipment. 3. Defense Hydrogen Technology & Logistics Initiative – Increase funding for and reorganize existing programs at the Department of Defense to implement specific targets for the number of hydrogen support vehicles to be used on military installations, to establish a detailed schedule for the installation of hydrogen infrastructure (including storage and distribution) on military installations, and to establish a schedule for the development, demonstration, and procurement of appropriate hydrogen vehicles for use on military installations. V. FUEL CONSERVATION AND BIOFUELS A. Environmental Technology Innovation 1. Biofuels R&D – Increase R&D on technologies to produce ethanol from cellulosic materials, such as waste paper, grass, corn stalks, wood chips, and fast-growing trees. Increase funding for other biofuels, such as biodiesel, to replace conventional diesel fuel. 2. Tax Incentives for Biofuels Producers – Increase and expand tax incentives for producers of biofuels and ethanol, including incentives to encourage early production of cellulosic ethanol to meet Renewable Fuel Standard below. 3. Biofuels Capacity – Ensure the availability of loan guarantees and grant programs for expanding ethanol infrastructure, especially cellulosic ethanol, through mechanisms established by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. B. Biofuel Mandate and Development of Infrastructure 1. Renewable Fuel Standard – Increase the amount of ethanol in the RFS and provide incentives for increased cellulosic ethanol. Establish tax credit to encourage cellulosic ethanol production. 2. E10 Fuel Mandate – Require all gasoline motor fuel sold in the U.S. to contain not less than 10 percent ethanol fuel by 2012. 3. Ethanol Pump Mandate – Set a goal of installing alternative fuel pumps at 10 percent of retail filling outlets by 2015. Require each major oil company to install new pumps at not less than 50 percent of the stations they own and operate by 2012 and at not less than 100 percent of those stations by 2015. Require FTC to promulgate rules to prevent interference by the oil companies with installation of new pumps. 4. Tax Credit for E85 Infrastructure – Increase tax credit for installation of new pumps (to up to 50 percent of cost, up to $50,000) and provide one-year depreciation for new pumps. Establish tax credit for fuel blenders to encourage E85 availability. C. Fuel Savings 1. CAFE Requirements – Direct the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to issue new regulations to increase fuel economy standards for passenger cars thru 2020, based upon an attribute-based system (such as size or weight), consistent with the “maximum feasible” requirement in existing law and including other provisions necessary to promote small car production in the U.S. Direct NHTSA to issue new light truck standards thru 2020. Requirements to meet new CAFE standards may be waived if technology goals are agreed to under section I.B.2. 2. Extension of Dual-Fuel Credit – Extend CAFE credit for dual-fuel vehicles through 2020. VI. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INITIATIVES A. Department of Defense Manufacturing Initiatives 1. DOD Strategic Plan – Require the Department of Defense to prepare a strategic plan and investment strategy for manufacturing technology R&D, as per the recommendation of the Defense Science Board. The purpose of this plan is to focus attention on the issue, increase coordination among DOD components, and provide more transparency to Congress on DOD's efforts to address manufacturing issues as they relate to the defense industrial base and weapon systems production. 2. Manufacturing R&D – Authorize funding in fiscal year 2008 for manufacturing R&D, including $10 million annually for development of defense technology-specific strategies and development plans, manufacturing test beds, and incentives for manufacturing innovations (authorized by FY-06 Defense Authorization bill), $30 million annually for an Industrial Base Innovation Fund, which would help support DOD's ability to address specific shortfalls in the defense industrial base to meet short term surge manufacturing requirements, and $10 million annually to support longer term (often university and small-business based) research into new manufacturing techniques. (####)
05.15.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI-12) and Candice Miller (R-MI-10) released the following joint statement in response to recent deliberations regarding the new location for a satellite campus for the Michigan State University’s College of Osteopathic Medicine: “The Macomb University Center site meets all of the MSU satellite campus requirements and alleviates all of the concerns being raised by a broad range of experts about the adverse effect on health care in the City of Detroit presented by the DMC site. “Serious issues have been raised by Wayne State University and by the Schwartz Commission on health care and medical education in Southeast Michigan, including the most effective ways to provide vital health care services in Detroit and all of Southeast Michigan. They warrant a full review and response by MSU. What is being missed, though, is that none of these issues exist should the satellite campus be located at the Macomb University Center. Indeed, the entire southeast Michigan region will have a better balance of medical education and higher education with the satellite campus located in Macomb County. “The following facts highlight the dramatic strength of the Macomb proposal. They are reason why MSU and its Board of Trustees, in the face of growing opposition to the DMC site, should reassess and fully locate the new campus in Macomb County.” The Facts The Macomb proposal can fulfill 100% of the requirements for the Southeastern Michigan satellite campus proposed by MSU - The Macomb University Center can house all of the academic coursework required for the four-year medical degree program. In addition, the Macomb Community College will make a $3 million investment in laboratories.- At the Macomb University Center, the medical students would be enrolled along with other students in a campus environment dedicated to upper division, graduate and professional education, rather than being placed within a hospital setting for both classes and clinical programs- The academic facilities are ideally configured for medical education programs and are equipped with state of the art technology and interactive television teaching capability.- Students have access to a campus setting that provides a library, student support service, student activities and a sense of an academic community for the students. Macomb County hospitals can provide all of the clerkships, internships and residencies required to support the expanded student enrollment - Macomb is home to Osteopathic hospitals (St. Joseph Healthcare, Mt. Clemens Regional Medical Center, Henry Ford Bi-County) with Pontiac Osteopathic Hospital and several other MSU Statewide Hospital System hospitals nearby.- The satellite campus would fit well with the rich history and tradition of support for osteopathic medicine in Macomb County. The large pool of Osteopathic physicians in the area would provide the availability of highly qualified faculty. Indeed, Osteopathic Associations from Macomb and Oakland County have rallied around the Macomb site. (####)
05.10.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Members of the Democratic and Republican Congressional leadership led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi joined with key Administration officials today to announce an agreement on a new trade policy for America. Today's announcement was the culmination of months of negotiations between Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Ranking Member Jim McCrery (R-LA), Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI), Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Wally Herger (R-CA) and the Administration. The agreement announced today is a fundamental shift in U.S. trade policy. Pending free trade agreements (FTAs) will be amended to incorporate key principles that will expand and shape trade in ways that spread the benefits of globalization here and abroad by raising standards. This new policy clears the way for broad, bipartisan congressional support for the Peru and Panama FTAs. Rangel Quote: "This is truly an historic breakthrough," said Chairman Charles Rangel (D-NY). "For decades now, trade has been a polarizing issue in Congress, but today's agreement signals a new direction and a renewed spirit of bipartisanship. We hope that we can improve the image of trade by creating new jobs and forging a partnership with the private sector to ensure that at the end of the day we're advancing a policy that makes trade work, not just for shareholders, but for all Americans." McCrery Quote: "This agreement will allow us to move the American trade agenda forward," Ranking Member Jim McCrery, R-La., said, "I believe it is a good and fair compromise that takes into account the concerns of all parties. I urge all Members of Congress who care about making sure our nation remains a leader on trade to support this agreement." Levin Quote: "Today we are taking first steps in a new trade policy that stands up for U.S. workers and businesses and actively shapes the terms of expanded trade to spread its benefits more broadly," said Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI). Herger Quote: "I'm extremely pleased that we made it across the finish line on these negotiations," said Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Wally Herger, (R-CA). "We now have a way forward on Panama, Peru, Colombia, South Korea and even reauthorization of TPA. I want to thank Chairman Rangel, Ranking Member McCrery, and Ambassador Schwab for their hard work in reaching this breakthrough agreement, and look forward to continuing to work with them to move these agreements and TPA reauthorization through Congress." Click here to read a summary of the key provisions Click here for the full text of the agreement (####)
05.09.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, made the following opening remarks today during the Tripartite Hearing on Currency, "Currency Manipulation and Its Effect of U.S. Businesses and Workers," convening Subcommittees of Ways and Means, Financial Services, and Energy and Commerce: Currency Manipulationand Its Effect on U.S. Businesses and Workers Opening Statement of U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI)Trade Subcommittee, Chairman Hearing: Subcommittees of Ways and Means, Financial Services, and Energy and CommerceMay 9, 2007 Prepared for Delivery This is an extraordinary hearing, with at least 68 members of Congress invited to participate, across three subcommittees from three different committees. And the caliber of the panel before us is extraordinary as well, representing a broad range of views and experiences, and a uniformly high level of intellect and insight across the board. Thank you all for testifying today. Even more extraordinary than this hearing is the situation we face today with the Chinese and the Japanese currencies. In 2006, the U.S. trade deficit was over $232 billion with China and over $88 billion with Japan. Past and current interventions in the currency markets by the Chinese and Japanese governments are certainly not the sole cause of these trade deficits. But they are one cause. I hope today's hearing will shed light on that issue, and on how this Congress should address it. [China.] On a daily basis, the Government of China intervenes in the foreign exchange markets. To maintain the fixed exchange rate the Chinese authorities have accumulated massive foreign exchange reserves in the past several years - selling Chinese renminbi (or "RMB") and soaking up foreign currencies to keep the value of the RMB artificially low. At the end of 2001, China's foreign reserves had grown to $212 billion. By the end of 2004, they had grown to $610 billion. By the end of 2005, they had grown to over $800 billion. And by the end of 2006, they had exceeded $1 trillion. Today, China's foreign exchange reserves exceed $1.2 trillion - more than any nation has ever held in history. The result has been that the RMB is undervalued - making China's exports cheaper, and U.S. exports to China more expensive. Estimates of the extent of the undervaluation range from 10 percent to more than 50 percent. For at least four years now, the Administration has repeatedly and publicly stressed that China needs to move towards a more flexible market-based exchange rate regime. In its report for the first half of 2003, the Treasury Department reported that it has "urged" China to move toward greater exchange rate flexibility. Two years later, Treasury reported that Chinese authorities said they would "enhance the flexibility and strengthen the role of market forces in their managed floating exchange rate regime". Treasury wrote: "The Chinese authorities should do so by the time this report is next issued." But China did not do so. In the following issue of the report, in May 2006, Treasury made the following statement: This report expresses particular concern about the international economic and exchange rate policies of China and reaches the central conclusion that far too little progress has been made in introducing exchange rate flexibility for the renminbi. ... The delay in introducing additional exchange rate flexibility is unjustified[.] ... Given our strong disappointment and the importance of China to the world economy, the Treasury Department will ... continue actively and frankly to press China to quicken the pace of renminbi flexibility. But the Administration's strong rhetoric is not matched by its results. In July 2005, the Government of China announced that it was moving from a "peg" to the U.S. dollar to a "managed float", based on a basket of currencies. The RMB, on a nominal basis, has since appreciated by seven percent. In fact, however, on a "real effective" exchange rate basis, the RMB at the end of 2006 had appreciated only 0.2 percent relative to the dollar, compared to its position at the end of 2004. (The nominal exchange rate does not correct for the rate of inflation, whereas the real exchange rate does.) In other words, China has made no real progress in appreciating its currency. The Administration's repeated efforts at "dialogue" have fallen flat. [Japan.] The situation with Japan is also troubling and extraordinary. The Japanese yen was recently described by The Economist magazine as "perhaps the world's most undervalued currency." A recent Treasury Department report to Congress notes that "the yen is now at its weakest level in real trade-weighted terms in more than 20 years." Nevertheless, the Administration resists calls even to discuss the issue. According to Secretary Paulson, the Government of Japan has not formally intervened in the foreign exchange markets since March 2004. But the weak yen today reflects the Japanese government's massive interventions several years ago, and Japan's ability and willingness to intervene again if the yen begins to appreciate significantly. The weak yen also reflects monetary and fiscal policies, including setting low interest rates and failing to stimulate consumer demand. Mr. Rangel, Mr. Dingell, Mr. Frank, and I made this clear in a letter to the Treasury Secretary in February - and The Economist magazine subsequently agreed with our analysis. According to The Economist: Mr. Paulson is being short-sighted. Even if Japan is not intervening to hold down its currency, the yen is still misaligned. A country with one of the world's largest current-account surpluses and low inflation ... should have a much stronger currency. ... Japan does not need such low interest rates or a super-cheap currency any more. Indeed, Japan's abnormally low rates could be viewed as a form of intervention to hold down the yen. In short, past and current actions by the Government of Japan are causing a weak yen, holding down prices of imports from Japan, while making U.S. exports in Japan more expensive. Indeed, the Nikkei Weekly reported in 2005 that Toyota Motors' profit increases by $227 million for every 1 yen that the Japanese currency depreciates against the dollar. Thus, the situation with both China and Japan is a history of massive government intervention in, or other management of, its markets - a major factor in combined foreign exchange reserves of more than $2 trillion. This kind of activity distorts markets, harming in real terms businesses and working people in the United States. I have met with many groups of businesses and workers, from across the United States, who struggle with this every day. These businesses and workers can compete - and want to compete - against their foreign counterparts. All they ask is that they be allowed to compete on a level playing field. I recently met with a group of synthetic fiber manufacturers. They are forced to compete against extremely low-priced Asian fibers and yarns. These lower prices do not reflect lower input costs or more efficient processes. The U.S. manufacturers buy their raw materials (petroleum-based products) on the same world markets as their Asian competitors, and pay the same prices. What accounts for the lower prices of their competitors has nothing to do with free markets. It has everything to do with foreign government interventions, including in the currency markets. As one industry representative told me, "Just put us on an even footing, and the U.S. will win what it should win." There is also a growing recognition that China's and Japan's currency behavior is contributing to potentially dangerous global imbalances. The International Monetary Fund was established at the end of World War II to oversee the global financial system. Its Managing Director, Rodrigo de Rato, noted recently that other Asian countries are feeling pressure to keep the value of their currencies low, to keep pace with China and Japan. Some have even questioned whether these imbalances place in jeopardy the functioning of the international financial system as a whole. In my view, the issue on the table today is not whether the United States needs to take action to respond to the interventionist policies of China and Japan in this key area, but what form that action should take. I look forward to hearing from our distinguished witnesses, and thank you all again for coming here today. (####)
05.04.2007	At an awards reception at the Macomb Community College, U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) announced the winners of the 2007 Congressional Arts Competition of the 12th Congressional District, An Artistic Discovery, the nationwide Congressional Art Competition coordinated and conducted by Members of the House of Representatives in their districts. Levin hosted an awards reception for all participants showcasing the competition's artwork from throughout the 12th Congressional District. "I continue to be amazed with the talent of so many young people throughout the 12th District," said Rep. Levin. "I congratulate all of the students who entered pieces of art in the Congressional Art Competition. They all should be proud of their artistic efforts." The winner of the 12th Congressional District's 2007 Congressional Art Competition is Camille LaMontagne of Chippewa Valley High School. Camille's winning piece of art is entitled, "Geo," a colorful oil pastel self portrait. Her piece will hang for one year in the United States Capitol in Washington, DC. Camille also won the poster contest in the traditional category for the North American International Auto Show. She had a painting selected through the Michigan Art Education Association to travel for a year in the Governor's Show and was invited to participate in the Michigan Youth Art Festival at Western Michigan University in May. The second place winner is William Jeffrey. William is a 12th grader from East Detroit High School. His winning photography is called "Golden". The third place winner is Katie Alfonsi with a pencil drawing called "Desolate". Katie is a 10th grader from South Lake High School. 2007 marks the 26th anniversary of the An Artistic Discovery, the nationwide Congressional Art Competition coordinated and conducted by Members of the House of Representatives in their district. Each high school in the 12th Congressional District was invited to submit five pieces of artwork. A panel of judges, distinguished in the arts, selected first, second, and third place winners. The first place winner Camille LaMontagne will attend the Art Competition ribbon-cutting ceremony on June 28 in Washington D.C. where her artwork will be prominently displayed for one year in the Cannon Corrdior of the United States Capitol. (####)
05.03.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Reps. Sander Levin (D-MI) and Dave Camp (R-MI) today introduced the Investment in America Act of 2007, bi-partisan legislation to strengthen and make permanent the Research and Development Tax Credit. Levin and Camp are both senior members of the House Ways and Means Committee. Twenty-eight of their colleagues on the Committee joined them in introducing the legislation. In the near term, a strengthened and permanent R&D tax credit provides a direct incentive for companies to create high paying jobs in engineering, research and technology, and in the long term, it fosters the innovative products and services that represent high paying jobs of tomorrow. "To shape the path of globalization, we must provide an incentive for our businesses to make the investment in innovation that is key to U.S. prosperity and competitiveness. This bill creates a strong incentive for all companies to maintain and grow their R&D investments in the United States." said Levin. "For many large companies, the question is often not whether to invest in R&D, but where to invest. For the smaller firms whose innovative ideas and products have the potential to give rise to entirely new industries, the R&D credit helps them afford to make these investments in the first place." "Renewing, improving and making permanent the R&D credit is a critical component of our ability to compete in the global economy," said Camp. "This incentive keeps jobs in the U.S. and keeps our manufacturers and small businesses on the cutting edge of technology. Michigan is one of the largest users of this credit, and our economy and our workers need this shot in the arm." Advancements made by US companies in diverse fields ranging from medical devices to software do not happen overnight. They involve years, sometimes decades, of expensive, labor-intensive research. For American businesses, the lack of a strong and certain R&D credit increases financial risks and could lead some to forgo additional research. Some US firms may decide instead to conduct future research projects offshore - in countries with strong and stable incentives for research. The Levin-Camp Investment in America Act addresses this challenge by strengthening and extending the R&D Tax Credit, thereby increasing the incentive for firms to invest in US-based R&D. The bill will provide all of the more than 10,000 companies who use the R&D Credit with the same strong incentive for investment by increasing the rate of the Alternative Simplified Credit to the same 20 percent rate that is currently available under the traditional credit. Just as importantly, the legislation will make the credit permanent. Just last year the credit was allowed to expire for nearly 12 months before being retroactively extended. The Ways and Means Committee Members that joined Levin and Camp in introducing the Invest in America Act are: Reps. McDermott, Herger, Lewis (GA), Ramstad, Neal, Johnson, Pomeroy, English, Tubbs Jones, Weller, Larson, Hulshof, Emanuel, Lewis (KY), Blumenauer , Brady, Kind, Reynolds, Pascrell, Cantor, Berkley, Nunes, Crowley, Tiberi, Van Hollen, Porter, Schwartz, Davis. (####)
05.02.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today voted in favor of overriding the President's veto of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. The President's veto ignores the American people's call for a new direction in Iraq. This measure would have required accountability from both the Bush Administration and the Iraqi government for the first time. Although the bill received a majority of support with a vote of 222 to 203, with one voting present, it did not achieve the two-thirds required to override the veto. "Today there are two distinct messages coming out of Washington. The first message is from a majority of the Congress and underscores impatience with the lack of political progress in Iraq," said Levin. "We call for a new direction, including enforceable benchmarks for the performance of the Iraqi government. The other message is from the White House. The message the President is sending is that America's military commitment in Iraq remains open-ended, no matter what." The Iraq Accountability Act would have supported our troops, providing $4 billion more for our troops than the President requested. This includes additional funding for military health care, military housing, Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles for our troops, and a Strategic Reserve Readiness Fund. The measure also would have supported our veterans, providing $1.8 billion not requested by the President to begin meeting the unmet health care needs of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition to fully funding our troops, the bill would have required Iraqis to begin taking responsibility for Iraq. "The President keeps saying that we're making progress in Iraq. This claim cannot be reconciled with the facts. Nearly everyone agrees that there is no military solution possible in Iraq; rather, the Iraqis must make the political compromises necessary to end the violence. From the beginning, the Bush Administration has been wrong so many times about nearly every aspect of the war in Iraq. Now the President comes to Congress again to ask for yet another blank check. We should not give him one," concluded Levin. (####)
04.24.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously approved H.R. 518, the International Solid Waste Importation Act. Introduced by U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-Dearborn), the measure has been co-sponsored by every single Michigan member of the House including U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak). Below is Mr. Levin's statement on the bill: "As a cosponsor of H.R. 518, I rise in strong support of this measure. The issue of waste coming into Michigan from Ontario is one of great concern to the people I represent, and I appreciate Rep. Dingell's tireless efforts to move this legislation. "Like the bill approved by the House last year, the International Solid Waste Importation and Management Act directs the Environmental Protection Agency to implement and enforce the Agreement Concerning the Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Waste between the United States and Canada. The Administrator is required to issue final regulations within 24 months after the date of enactment. "The legislation further requires the Administrator of EPA, when considering whether to consent to a shipment of foreign municipal solid waste to give substantial weight to the views of the recipient State or States, and also consider the impact of the shipment on local recycling programs, landfill capacity, road deterioration, homeland security, public health and the environment, among other factors. "As I mentioned, the bill before the House is nearly identical to the legislation that the House approved last September. Unfortunately, the former leadership of the Senate failed to take up the bill last year, despite bipartisan pleas from Michigan's House delegation urging prompt action. Now that the Senate is under new management, I hope we can at last address this longstanding problem and get a bill to the President's desk for signature. "Our nation has no closer friend in the world than Canada, but the current trash arrangement in which hundreds of trash trucks cross the border each day on their way to Michigan landfills is simply untenable. The legislation before the House builds on the agreement that Michigan's two Senators negotiated with the government of Ontario last year to reduce municipal waste shipments from Canada over the next four years. "I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting the legislation before the House." (####)
04.23.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) welcomed a key recommendation of a blue ribbon Commission appointed by Governor Jennifer M. Granholm and an independent report developed by the Institute for Higher Education Policy (IHEP), a leading higher education policy research group, that a 4-year public institution of higher learning be established in Macomb County. The Commission and the Institute had analyzed higher education attainment in the County and the need for a four-year public institution. "We must move quickly to achieving a 4-year university within Macomb, and every step along that path must be building toward that goal," said Levin. "A 4-year institution is both important to the residents of Macomb and economic development in the region." The reports by the Commission and the Institute followed the work of the 12th District Congressional Advisory Committee on Higher Education in Macomb County, which was established by U.S. Rep. Levin to facilitate discussions, meetings and other activities on the challenges of higher education and the establishment of a 4-year public institution in Macomb. Levin served as the liaison between the Governor's Commission and the independent study. Click here to view the Report by the Commission on Higher Education and Economic Growth in Macomb County Click here to view the Independent IHEP Report (####)
04.19.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The House of Representatives today passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), on a broad bi-partisan vote of 394 to 25, which includes a provision calling for up to $10 million a year to implement restoration projects in Lake St. Clair. Just last month, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved the St. Clair Shore restoration language requested by U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak). "In the past, Lake St. Clair has been described as 'the forgotten lake.' No longer," exclaimed U.S. Rep. Levin. "Today, we refer to Lake St. Clair as the 'Heart of the Great Lakes.' We need to protect and restore it. Lake St. Clair is not the largest body of water in the Great Lakes System, but it is absolutely one of the most heavily used portions of the Lakes in terms of fishing, boating and drinking water." The Lake St. Clair provision calls for up to $10 million annually to allow the Corps, in partnership with the state of Michigan and local government, to implement the recommendations of the comprehensive management plan for Lake St. Clair that was approved in 2005. The language adopted by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and approved by the House is similar to language approved last year by the U.S. Senate, which was requested by Senator Carl Levin. The Michigan Delegation attempted to get final approval of this language last fall, but the 109th Congress adjourned before reaching agreement on the water resources measure. "Two years ago, the Corps of Engineers completed a comprehensive management plan for Lake St. Clair and the St. Clair River. Congress paid for this plan. The recommendations contained in the management plan will help shape Lake St. Clair's future, but only if they are implemented. Having come this far, we can't let the report and its recommendations become another study that sits on a shelf and gathers dust. Everyone, including the federal government, has to step forward and take responsibility for turning these recommendations into action," concluded Levin. Now that the House has passed the Water Resources legislation, the debate on the measure moves to the Senate, which is expected to take up the legislation next month. Michigan Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow are spearheading the effort to win approval of the Lake St. Clair restoration language in the Senate. Also of importance to the Great Lakes, the legislation authorizes federal funds to upgrade, expand and operate the electronic barrier in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal. The electronic barrier is the last line of defense protecting the Great Lakes from the invasive Asian carp. Congress routinely approves a major water resources bill every two or three years, but the WRDA bill has been snagged for years due to disagreements over how to reform the manner in which the Army Corps of Engineers formulates, reviews and implements projects. As a result, Congress has not approved a water resources bill since 2000. (####)
04.13.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, today offered the following comments as the U.S. Department of Commerce released its monthly trade deficit figures: "The trade deficit figures released today show a $58.4 billion deficit in February 2007, still easily on track to continue the country's disturbing trend of massive trade deficits. House Democrats have welcomed the small and overdue enforcement steps that the Administration has begun to take since the November elections, but we need to see sustained and substantial reductions before we can begin to say that the problems with U.S. trade policy, as manifested in part in the soaring trade deficits of the last six years, are diminishing. "A more detailed look at the data reveals some of the same disturbing trends of past years. -- "Our goods trade deficit with China was $18.4 billion in February 2007, up from $13.8 billion in February 2006. However, our trade deficit with China was $13.8 billion in February 2006 - and it was too high then. -- "Our trade deficit in advanced technology products was $4.2 billion in February 2007, well ahead of February 2006's level of $1.4 billion. -- "At $7.1 billion in February 2007, our goods trade deficit with Japan returned to levels above $7 billion a month, as it was in nine months of 2006. Our trade deficit with Japan in motor vehicles and parts also worsened in February 2007, rising to $4.6 billion from $4.3 billion in January 2007. "We remain on track for a trade deficit of over $700 billion, and need changes to the failed trade policies of the last six years. The House Democrats' New Trade Policy for America will improve enforcement of U.S. trade laws, increase U.S. enforcement efforts at the WTO, and press China to end its currency manipulation, intellectual property rights violations, and illegal subsidies. We will also continue to press on the undervalued yen." (####)
04.09.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The United States Trade Representative today announced the filing of a formal complaint against China within the World Trade Organization (WTO) over the inadequate market access for American goods and Chinese enforcement of intellectual property rights. House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) issued the following statement today in response: "Today's announcement is welcomed, but long overdue. No country in the world has done more to undermine American intellectual property than China, and yet we have not held them accountable to the rules of trade. Congressional Democrats have long sought action like this from the Administration. Active enforcement must be a consistent part of American trade policy and practice, not a response to pressure. "American workers and businesses lose nearly $3 billion each year to Chinese copyright infringement in addition to the cost of massive trademark violations. The Administration needs to follow up on today's announcement to challenge and eliminate all of China's theft, piracy and open their markets to genuine American goods. This is an important part of making vital expanded trade a two-way street." Congressional Democrats have repeatedly urged the Administration to take a tougher stance against the piracy of American intellectual property, especially in China. In an October 12, 2006 letter to President Bush, and in many other listed communications to the Administration, the Democratic leadership and Ways and Means Committee members asked the Administration to immediately file a challenge in the WTO to combat China's "flagrant abuse of international rules governing intellectual property rights." Summary of Chinese intellectual property violations: -- Nearly 90 percent of all American software is pirated at an annual cost of more than $2 billion to the US economy. -- Total copyright losses reach nearly $3 billion per year. -- The U.S. automobile industry loses $12 billion each year due to counterfeit automotive parts production, of which China is a leading violator. Past Democratic Statements on China IPR: 2007 Democratic NTE Letter, March 2007 Chairman Rangel, Mr. Levin, and 10 other House Democrats cited Chinese IPR violations in their response to the Administration's NTE report. Click here to view. Letter to President on 2006 Trade Deficit, February 13, 2007 Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer, Chairman Rangel, Mr. Levin, and 10 other Democrats call for a WTO IPR case against China as one action the Administration can take to reduce the trade deficit. Click here to view. Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Hearing on China - panel on IPR, February 15, 2007 Click here to view. Letter to President Bush Calling for Action on Intellectual Property Rights, October 12, 2006 Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Levin, and nine other Democrats singled out China in a letter calling for more aggressive IPR enforcement. Letter to President Bush Calling for Action on China Trade Policy, April 19, 2006 Mr. Rangel, Mr. Levin, and 10 other Democrats describe China as flaunting international trade rules by not enforcing IPR. Click here to view. 2006 Democratic NTE Letter, March 2006 Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Levin, and 12 other House Democrats cited Chinese IPR violations in their response to the Administration?s NTE report. 2005 Democratic NTE Letter, March 2005 Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Levin, and eight other House Democrats cited Chinese IPR violations in their response to the Administration's NTE report. (####)
04.05.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), a senior member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, issued the following reaction to the recess appointment of Andrew Biggs as Principal Deputy Commissioner of Social Security - the second-in-command at the agency: "It is highly disappointing that President Bush would use a recess appointment to try to outflank Congress and name Andrew Biggs as Deputy Commissioner for Social Security. Because Biggs' record is that of an ardent proponent of privatizing Social Security, the appointment ignores the will of the American people who have overwhelmingly demonstrated their belief in our Social Security system. It also undermines any efforts to rebuild trust between the Administration and the Democratic Congress on key entitlement issues." (####)
04.02.2007	(Washington D.C.)- House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI) today issued the following statement upon completion of the U.S.-South Korea free trade agreement (FTA): "Congress has the Constitutional authority to regulate foreign trade and has delegated that authority to the Executive. It must, in exercising that authority, respect the new majority in Congress and with it the need for a new trade policy. "Congress made clear that a FTA with Korea had to do away with its iron economic curtain against U.S. agricultural and industrial products, especially automotive which represents 82 percent of the $13.4 billion U.S. trade deficit with Korea. "In agriculture, the barriers remain against rice and against beef. "In automotive, the Koreans got what they wanted, immediate elimination of the U.S. tariff on most autos and on all auto parts as well as eventual elimination of the tariff on trucks. "The U.S. did not get what was needed - an agreement that assures that the U.S. automotive industry will no longer face the barriers to their products, that trade will be truly a two way street (Korea exports 700,000 vehicles to the U.S. annually while the U.S. sells less than 5,000 in Korea). "A broad, bipartisan group of lawmakers cautioned the United States Trade Representative (USTR) that any FTA negotiated with Korea must include provisions that assure elimination of the barriers against U.S. automotive products and the opening of Korea's iron curtain around their market. "Sending this agreement to Congress will only be a formality and I will oppose it unless the 90 day Congressional review period is used to provide real assured market access to American products."
03.30.2007	(Washington D.C.)- House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI), issued the following joint statement today in response to the U.S. Department of Commerce decision to continue its investigation into the subsidization of Chinese paper products: "We welcome the Administrations decision to continue its subsidy investigation on paper imports from China. "This decision represents a long overdue change in policy to impose countervailing duties on subsidized and injurious imports from non-market economy countries. "We plan to move forward with bipartisan legislation introduced by Representatives Davis and English to ensure we are combating all unfair trade - whether it is dumping or subsidies - that puts American workers, farmers and businesses at a disadvantage. "Changing the law will remove any doubt or court challenge to make certain that every industry can file a case if they have been harmed." (####)
03.29.2007	(Washington D.C.)- As the March 31st deadline for notifying the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement approaches, Democratic Congressional leaders strongly urged the Bush Administration to change the course of negotiations to re-establish a bipartisan foundation for trade policy. The Democratic Leaders are concerned that the current negotiation strategy is inadequate to tear down South Korea's "iron curtain" to American manufacturing. In the attached letter sent yesterday to United States Trade Representative (USTR) Susan C. Schwab, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI), expressed their disappointment over the Administration's failure to seize on the opportunity presented in the "Bi-partisan Congressional Proposal to Open Korea?s Automotive Markets." Click here to view the bipartisan Congressional Proposal Text of the leadership letter sent to USTR Schwab: March 28, 2007 The Honorable Susan C. SchwabUnited States Trade RepresentativeOffice of the U.S. Trade Representative600 17th Street, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20508 Dear Madam Ambassador: We are writing, in advance of what is reported in the media to be the last round of trade negotiations with South Korea, to express our deep concern about the lack of progress on automotive sector issues, and very importantly, our belief that the proposal USTR is prepared to put forward is completely inadequate in the face of Korea's longstanding iron curtain to American manufactured products. We simply cannot allow this one-way street with Korea to stand. As you know, Korea is the fifth largest producer, and the ninth largest consumer automotive market in the world. We now have an $11 billion deficit in auto trade which is 82% of the total deficit between our two countries. Last year, Korea sold 700,000 vehicles in the U.S.; the U.S. sold only 4,000 in Korea. We need a new approach, not more of the same written commitments that have failed to tear down the present non-tariff barriers and prevent future ones from blocking U.S. products. We are deeply disappointed that you have failed to seize the opportunity presented by the Bi-partisan Congressional Proposal to Open Korea's Automotive Markets to take a much needed new approach to these negotiations. These negotiations need a significant course correction. The first goal must be to get right a basic policy that stands up for U.S. businesses and workers in the global marketplace. We are confident that if there is a change of course in present negotiations to reach this goal we will be re-establishing a bipartisan foundation for trade. Sincerely, /s Nancy Pelosi Steny H. HoyerSpeaker of the House House Majority Leader Charles B. Rangel, Chairman Sander Levin, ChairmanCommittee on Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, Committee on Ways and Means *Click here to view the letter in .pdf form. (####)
03.29.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI), introduced legislation today to provide a two-year extension of trade preferences for the Andean nations of Peru, Colombia, Ecuador and Bolivia. The bill would extend the preferences given under the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) and the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act (ATPDEA). The ATPDEA provides critical trade benefits to these developing nations, which have resulted in job creation and economic development. ATPA and ATPDEA preferences will expire on July 1, 2007, unless Congress acts to extend the program. "Unless Congress extends these benefits, we risk losing some of the economic progress we've achieved with the Andean nations over the fifteen-year life of the program," said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel. "I hope we can count on strong bipartisan support to get this legislation passed quickly. The extension of the preferences is an extension of our diplomacy and an investment in the people of the Andean region." "As we consider more comprehensive trade relationships that will promote mutual economic growth and broaden its benefits more widely, it is important that there not be an abrupt interruption of a program that has been an integral part of U.S. trade policy for over 15 years," said Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin. "The program - while not perfect - has stimulated economic growth and created some legal, viable alternatives to the illicit narcotics trade and we must build on this growth to foster development and stability in the region." Chairmen Rangel and Levin were joined by Representatives Eliot Engel (D-NY) and Dan Burton (R-IN) as original cosponsors. Reps. Engel and Burton are Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere respectively. (####)
03.27.2007	(Washington D.C.)- House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI), today unveiled "A New Trade Policy for America," to improve pending free trade agreements and allow for bipartisan support in the House. "We are on the brink of restoring bipartisanship to American trade policy," said Chairman Rangel. "The policies we've outlined today should send a clear message that this Congress wants trade, but we want trade that works for all Americans." "We must use trade as a tool to shape globalization and spread its benefits more broadly," urged Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin. "Congress, and this Democratic Majority, is reasserting its constitutional authority to stand up for U.S. businesses, workers, and farmers in the global marketplace." Specifically, the policy calls for the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to: - Require countries to adopt, maintain and enforce basic international labor standards in their domestic laws and practices - not merely "enforce their own laws." - Promote sustainable development and combat global warming by requiring countries to implement and enforce common Multilateral Environmental Agreements, and address illegal logging of mahogany in Peru. - Re-establish a fair balance between promoting access to medicines in developing countries and protecting pharmaceutical innovation. - Promote U.S. national security by protecting operations at U.S. ports. - Ensure that trade agreement accords "no greater rights" to foreign investors in the U.S. than to U.S. investors. The Proposal also puts these pending FTA issues into the broader context and addresses a number of other key issues (including the pending negotiations with South Korea) that would set trade policy on the right track. Click here for a summary of the proposal. (####)
03.23.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today voted in favor of the Iraq Supplemental Appropriations Bill - H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. The measure passed on a vote of 218 to 212. Below is Mr. Levin's floor statement in support of the legislation: "I rise in support of the legislation before the House, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. This measure supports our troops in the field. It provides more resources to ensure that our wounded service members and veterans receive the health care and support they need. And it sets a responsible timeline for the phased redeployment of our troops. "Our nation continues to pay a high price for the Administration's reckless invasion of Iraq and the President's open-ended commitment of U.S. military forces in that country. Our troops are entering their fifth year in Iraq, and there is no end in sight. The situation is deteriorating. Iraq is descending into a civil war. For the last four years, the former Republican Majority in the Congress sat on its hands and followed the President's policy like robots. The American people elected a new Majority in the House and Senate so that Congress would stand up and stop being a rubber stamp for the President. "The President's open-ended policies of committing U.S. troops in Iraq for as long as it takes is not working. We need a new way forward. The only chance to salvage the situation in Iraq is to put real pressure on the Iraqis to take responsibility for their own future. "Last January 10, President Bush addressed the nation and admitted that the situation in Iraq was descending into a vicious cycle of sectarian violence. He laid out a series of actions that the Iraqi government would have to take; benchmarks that the Iraqis would have to follow through on or lose the support of the American people. The President said that Iraq would approve legislation to share oil revenue among the Iraq people; that Iraq would spend $10 billion of its own money on reconstruction and infrastructure projects; that Iraq would reform the laws governing de-Baathification and allow more Iraqis to re-enter their nation's political life; that Iraq would establish a fair process for considering amendments to Iraq's constitution; and that Iraq would set a schedule to conduct provincial and local elections. The President said, 'America will hold the Iraqi government to the benchmarks it has announced.' "Since President Bush made that speech two months ago, 217 American soldiers have been killed in Iraq. More than 3200 American soldiers have died since the war began. More than 23,000 have been wounded. Until the Iraqis step up to the plate and make the difficult political decisions that need to be made, the sectarian violence will continue and American military men and women will continue to be killed and wounded. Either the factions in Iraq are going to come together and make these decisions, or they are not. We should not leave our troops in harm's way indefinitely and just hand the President another blank check to continue an open-ended policy with no end in sight. "The legislation before the House supports the troops, both in Iraq and Afghanistan. It holds the Iraqi government to the benchmarks for progress that the President outlined in his January 10th speech. Under this bill, if the President cannot certify that Iraq has achieved these benchmarks by October 1st of this year, a redeployment of U.S. troops begins immediately and must be completed within 180 days. Absent this pressure, the Iraqi government will continue to postpone action on achieving the benchmarks. If the Iraqi government does, indeed, meet the benchmarks by October 1, redeployment of U.S. forces would begin next March and be completed within 180 days. "After more than four years, this legislation would end the open-ended commitment to this war. It would set a clear timeline for the phased redeployment of U.S. troops. Without this pressure, there is little chance that the Iraqi leaders will make the decisions necessary to end civil war and build one nation. Our country cannot make these decisions for them. I urge passage of this legislation by the House." (####)
03.20.2007	(Washington D.C.)- As the United States and South Korea complete the 8th round of negotiations, U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, today made the following opening statement at the Trade Subcommittee Hearing on the U.S. - Korea Free Trade Agreement: Honorable Sander Levin, ChairmanWays and Means Trade Subcommittee Subcommittee Hearing on theU.S.-Korea Free Trade AgreementMarch 20, 2007 Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery "The negotiation of the U.S. - Korea FTA is indeed significant. Korea is the United States' seventh largest trading partner and the world's eleventh largest economy. The U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement would be the largest and most commercially significant bilateral FTA negotiated by the Bush Administration. "As the Administration completes its 8th round of negotiations, several outstanding issues remain, including services, telecommunications, intellectual property and agricultural, including beef and rice. Most challenging is Korea's massive non-tariff barriers (NTBs) to American industrial products in general and automotive products in particular. Since the outset, Korea has had an economic iron curtain against these products, using a combination of tariffs, taxes, and regulations. "The U.S. - Korea Free Trade Agreement is a key test of the approach we take to trade policy. It is a test of whether we need to shape the terms of expanded trade or assume, no matter how unbalanced, that leaving it alone to work out on its own is the best approach. It is a test, specifically, of whether we will be active, or passive in the face of long-standing, harmful practices of the Korean government to discriminate against our products in their domestic market. It is a test of our willingness to stand up for our domestic industry. "Today, we will hear compelling testimony on the history of our trading relationship with Korea in the automotive sector. The facts tell a real-life story. Korea is the fifth largest producer, and the ninth largest consumer automotive market in the world. We now have an $11 billion deficit in auto trade which is 82% of the total deficit between our two countries. Last year, Korea sold 700,000 vehicles in the U.S.; the U.S. sold only 4,000 in Korea. "The significance of Korean non-tariff barriers goes beyond this important FTA. If USTR fails to deal with it decisively it will reinforce the lack of active consideration of NTBs in the WTO Doha Round negotiations which have to date made no progress on outstanding NTB issues in the entire global trading system. "We know through experience - two previous Korean commitments in 'Memorandums of Understanding' (MOUs) were not worth the paper they were written on - what will not work to end these non-tariff barriers to U.S. exports. "We need a very new approach. At the beginning of March, a broad, bi-partisan group of legislators transmitted to the President a specific negotiating position that moves beyond previous negotiating strategies and embarks on such a new approach that conditions Korea obtaining additional access to the U.S. market on reciprocal opening of the Korean automotive market. There are two key components to the bi-partisan Congressional proposal. The first part addresses the phase-out of the 2.5 percent U.S. passenger vehicle tariff and creates a positive incentive for Korea to open its market to U.S. autos. The second part addresses Korea's current non-tariff barriers and creates a mechanism - available to all industries - for the United States to take action against future non-tariff barriers. "So far, there has been no meaningful movement by the Korean Government. It clings to its persistent denial that there has ever been a government policy to shelter its market, a denial that flies in the face of the facts on the ground over the decades. The response by USTR has included another form of denial ? a denial that Korea cares very much about the 2.5 percent tariff, thereby undercutting U.S. leverage and a denial that the one-way street will continue to be harmful because it is believed Korea will be shifting far more production to the U.S. "Since the Korean government has made it clear that early elimination of the U. S. 2.5 percent passenger vehicle tariff is a top priority, I have no idea why we would be conceding any leverage. "As I have communicated to USTR, a focus on future Korean increases in U.S.-based production is speculative and in any event misses the point. Increased domestic production will not necessarily result in fewer exported autos from Korea. Just look at the Japanese model. Over the last ten years, as Japanese production in the U.S. has increased, Japanese car exports to the U.S. have doubled from 1.2 million to 2.4 million. From 2005 to 2006, Japan exported an additional half a million cars to the United States - eighty percent of those were Toyota's. Finally, nearly half of all Toyota's sold in the U.S. last year, 2006, were exported to the United States. "It also misses the point that a large portion of the content of Korean cars assembled in the U.S. comes from Korea. "It also misses the point that the FTA must be structured to assure that the Korean market becomes fully open to U.S. automotive and other industrial goods. "Congress cannot do the negotiating to end one-way streets in trade with Korea. But we can make it clear the type of Agreement that we can support. My hope is that message is becoming clear to USTR. We need a shift in negotiating strategy - to an active, results-oriented approach that demands and measures commitments by the Korean government. To do less would be to do more of the same, and that should not and cannot result in an FTA acceptable to this Congress and the American people." (####)
03.15.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, today made the following opening statement at the Trade Subcommittee Hearing on the Nonmarket Economy Trade Remedy Act of 2007: Opening StatementRep. Sander Levin, ChairWays and Means Trade Subcommittee Nonmarket Economy Trade Remedy Act of 2007 (H.R. 1229)Trade Subcommittee HearingMarch 15, 2007Prepared for Delivery "Thank you all for testifying today. "Our trading relationship with China is unbalanced and unsustainable. Our trade deficit in goods with China in 2006 was more than $232 billion - 15% higher than in 2005, and 177% higher than in 2000. And the United States is not alone. According to China's trade statistics, China's trade surplus with the world was $39.7 billion in the first two months of this year - driven by a 41.5% increase in exports over the same period last year. "This bill that Mr. Davis and Mr. English have introduced would be an important step in bringing about balanced rules of competition and China's fulfilling the commitments it has made. H.R. 1229 would, for the first time in decades, treat China and other 'nonmarket economies' the same way we treat market economy countries. "The Department of Commerce has not applied that law to NME countries for more than 20 years. I know there is a difference of opinion as to whether existing law allows for the application of countervailing duty law to nonmarket economy countries. Over the years, there have been efforts in Congress to make clear such application. The recent decision by Commerce to initiate a countervailing duty investigation on paper from China is encouraging, but the Government of China has challenged that decision in the Court of International Trade. So, Congress needs to make sure Commerce applies the CVD law to NME countries in every case, and in the right way. "It is important to understand and acknowledge the scope of this problem. China subsidizes its textiles industry; its steel industry; its petrochemical industry; its high technology industry; its forestry and paper products industry; its machinery industry; its copper and non-ferrous metals industries. The list goes on and on. "The list would be even longer if the Government of China were more transparent and if it honored its commitment to provide complete information about its subsidy programs. It committed in its WTO accession agreement to provide that report to the WTO in 2002, but it failed to do so. It committed to provide a report in 2003, in 2004, and in 2005, but it failed to do so. In April 2006, it finally provided the report - but the report was obviously deficient. Still, it identified over 70 subsidy programs to the other Members of the WTO. "When Congress considered granting Permanent Normal Trade Relations to China, part of the legislation called for an annual review within the World Trade Organization to ensure that China was honoring its commitments. I fault China for failing to do that. And I fault the Administration for failing to use the annual review process negotiated in the WTO to insist that China meet these commitments and others. "China committed in its WTO accession agreement to eliminate all 'prohibited' subsidies - subsidies contingent upon export and 'import substitution' subsidies - but it has failed to do so. The failure of China to provide the required reports does not explain the inaction of the Administration through the WTO against those practices already well-known and documented. The Administration filed a WTO case last month against some of China's prohibited subsidies - a case that is long overdue, and only addresses a small subset of the subsidies that are distorting trade. "Several of our witnesses today will testify about subsidies in the steel industry in China, and the effect those subsidies have on the U.S. steel industry - an industry, I might add, that produces steel more efficiently than its Chinese rivals. The U.S. steel industry and workers can compete effectively, provided that we in the government exercise our responsibilities and take actions to halt gross distortions of basic rules of competition. "Mr. Visclosky, we received your letter in support of H.R. 1229 yesterday - a strongly bipartisan letter signed by 32 Members of Congress. Thank you for expressing your interest as Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus and in testifying to the Subcommittee today. "The semiconductor industry provides another example of Chinese industrial policy and its subsidy programs. China's 10th Five-Year Plan calls for an increase in Chinese semiconductor output from $2 billion in 2000 to $24 billion in 2010. Committee staff has received information from a credible source in the industry that at least two local government authorities - city governments - built semiconductor foundries and then 'handed over the keys' to China's largest semiconductor fabricator (SMIC). Each foundry costs that local government $3 billion to construct. It's hard for a U.S. semiconductor company to compete with that. That is simply not a level playing field. "I believe H.R. 1229 merits this Subcommittee's attention - and I appreciate the work of Mr. Davis and Mr. English in introducing it. This bill is a constructive proposal that is consistent with sound principles of international trade. Unlike some previous proposals, it is not part of a strategy to shore up support for other legislation. Instead, it stands on its own merits. It doesn't seek to 'bash' our trading partners, but to apply the same rules to them as to everyone else - balanced rules that provide for effective competition. "One of the provisions in H.R. 1229 provides that Congress should play a role in determining whether to revoke the status of a country as a 'nonmarket economy.' The role is a modest one - Congress must vote 'up or down' on the issue within a short period of time. I've heard critics say Congress shouldn't 'micro-manage' the Executive branch. But the amount of Chinese imports covered by antidumping duty orders exceeds the amount of imports covered by some of our FTAs that require congressional approval under fast track. "Once again, I look forward to hearing from our distinguished witnesses, and thank you all again for coming here today." (####)
03.15.2007	(Washington D.C.)- A key committee in the House of Representatives signed off on the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) legislation today that includes a provision calling for up to $10 million a year to implement restoration projects in Lake St. Clair. The Lake St. Clair restoration language was requested by U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) in a letter to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee earlier this year (see below letter). "We have a management plan to restore Lake St. Clair," said U.S. Rep. Levin. "The challenge is to turn the management plan's recommendations into action. Everyone, including the federal government, has to step forward and take responsibility for this." The Lake St. Clair provision calls for up to $10 million annually to allow the Corps, in partnership with the state of Michigan and local government, to implement the recommendations of the comprehensive management plan for Lake St. Clair that was approved in 2005. The language adopted by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee is similar to language approved last year by the U.S. Senate, which was requested by Senator Carl Levin. The Michigan Delegation attempted to get final approval of this language last fall, but the 109th Congress adjourned before reaching agreement on the water resources measure. The new Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, U.S. Rep. Oberstar of Minnesota, has made passage of the Water Resources Development Act a top priority this year. The next step in the process is for the full House of Representatives to approve the Water Resources Development Act. Following passage of the Water Resources legislation by the House, the measure must be reconciled with the water bill being developed by the Senate. Michigan Senators Levin and Stabenow have also requested funding for Lake St. Clair restoration. Congress routinely approves a major water resources bill every two or three years, but the WRDA bill has been snagged for years due to disagreements over how to reform the manner in which the Army Corps of Engineers formulates, reviews and implements projects. As a result, Congress has not approved a water resources bill since 2000. U.S. Rep. Sander Levin letter below: February 21, 2007 The Honorable James L. Oberstar The Honorable John L. MicaChairman Ranking Member2165 Rayburn HOB 2163 Rayburn HOBWashington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica: I am writing to request that the Committee include language in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) to implement projects that are consistent with the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair Management Plan authorized in Section 426 of WRDA 1999 and to provide finanacial assistance for the development and implementation of projects to restore, conserve, and manage the river, the lake and their watersheds. In addition, I request that the Corps coordinate with other federal and state organizations to convene a U.S. Lake St. Clair Watershed Management Advisory Committee to coordinate activities. I would also ask that the Committee authorize the use of the implementation plan drafted through a public participation process by the Southeast Michigan Council of Governments (SEMCOG). The Corps is currently reviewing what authorities may be needed in order to monitor water quality on Lake St. Clair. The Great Lakes Commission and the Army Corps of Engineers have developed a comprehensive management plan for Lake St. Clair and the St. Clair River as authorized in Section 426 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999. The goals of this planning effort are to evaluate the causes of environmental stress to the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair, determine management goals and objectives, review ongoing management activities, and develop recommendations for management priorities. Now that the Management Plan is finalized, the Corps needs to implement the recommendations so that restoration can proceed. By authorizing a Lake St. Clair Watershed Management Advisory Committee, we can be sure that federal resources for all agencies are being utilized efficiently. Please note that during the last Congress, both the House and Senate versions of the WRDA legislation included authorization language for the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair. The provision contained in the Senate-passed bill [Section 3056] authorized up to $10 million a year for restoration activities in the Lake St. Clair and St. Clair River watersheds. The Senate-approved authorization level was much stronger than the corresponding House language, and I would ask the Committee to include the higher funding level adopted in Section 3056 of the Senate-passed bill. Thank you for your consideration of this request. This is the highest-priority WRDA request I will be submitting. If you need additional information, please contact my Legislative Director, Dan Jourdan, at x54961. Sincerely, s/ Sander M. LevinMember of Congress (####)
03.14.2007	(Washington D.C.)- With just a year until the traditional Super Tuesday Presidential primary, U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) today introduced the "Interregional Presidential Primary and Caucus Act of 2007," a bill that would create an interregional system for the selection of delegates to Presidential nominating conventions through primaries and caucuses. Levin called his bill a "long overdue step towards fixing the broken system of the Presidential primary and caucus schedule." "Instead of states making a mad dash to the front of the line, we need an orderly primary and caucus system that combines the need to bring Americans truly into the decision-making process with the need to allow candidates the opportunity to interact meaningfully with citizens throughout the nation," said Levin. "This legislation spaces out the primary dates over several months, requiring candidates to establish themselves in multiple states. At the same time, each primary date will include at least one state from every region in the country, which will ensure that a broad spectrum of Americans' views is accounted for in the selection process." "The current nomination system unfairly gives a small number of states - far from fully representative of the nation as a whole - a head start and has led to a number of states rushing to the front of the line to rectify this unbalance. The result is a front-loaded, frantic primary calendar so disorganized that it could minimize rather than maximize a real testing of our candidates. Such testing is an important part of our vital Presidential selection process," concluded Levin. State legislatures around the country are scrambling to move up their primary or caucus dates to give their states more of a say in the presidential nominee selection process - known as "front-loading." In 2008, the Party nomination race may well be over by February 5th. The Interregional Presidential Primary and Caucus Act of 2007 6 Elections -- March through JuneEach Region Represented in Each ElectionStates Rotate Every 4 Years Levin?s plan would break down the country into six regions, with six-sub regions. The schedule is as follows: -- Second Tuesday in March-- First Tuesday in April-- Fourth Tuesday in April-- Second Tuesday in May-- Fourth Tuesday in May-- Second Tuesday in June The regions and sub-regions would be broken down in the following: Region 1: (A) Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont; (B) Massachusetts; (C) Connecticut, Rhode Island; (D) Delaware, New Jersey; (E) New York; (F) Pennsylvania Region 2: (A) Maryland; (B) West Virginia; (C) Missouri; (D) Indiana; (E) Kentucky; (F) Tennessee Region 3: (A) Ohio; (B) Illinois; (C) Michigan; (D) Wisconsin; (E) Iowa; (F) Minnesota Region 4: (A) Texas; (B) Louisiana; (C) Arkansas, Oklahoma; (D) Colorado; (E) Kansas, Nebraska; (F) Arizona, New Mexico Region 5: (A) Virginia; (B) North Carolina; (C) South Carolina; (D) Florida; (E) Georgia; (F) Mississippi, Alabama Region 6: (A) California; (B) Washington; (C) Oregon; (D) Idaho, Nevada, Utah; (E) Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming; (F) Hawaii, Alaska For the first Presidential election this Act would apply to, the Election Assistance Commission would determine by lottery the order in which each sub-region would hold its caucus or primary. If a state goes first during one cycle, it will go sixth (last) in the next cycle, and fifth in the following cycle, moving up one slot each cycle. During a 24-year rotation, then, every state will have occupied every primary and caucus slot exactly once. This law will apply to a Presidential election taking place more than two years after the law?s enactment. (####)
03.07.2007	(Washington D.C.)- King Abdullah II Ibn Al Hussein, King of the Hasehemite Kingdom of Jordan, made the following speech to a Joint Session of Congress on Wednesday, March 7th: Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Honorable Senators and Members of Congress, my friends, thank you for such a warm welcome. It is an honor to stand, as my father did, before this historic institution. Allow me to thank you on behalf of all Jordanians. Jordan and the United States have had a long friendship. It is a special privilege to be here in the year that the American Congress welcomes its first woman Speaker and its first Muslim-American Member of Congress. These milestones send a message around the world about the America I know so well, a place where individuality is nurtured, a place where hard work is rewarded, a place where achievement is celebrated. The America I know so well believes that opportunity and justice belong to all. In my days in Massachusetts, I also learned something about New England virtues. There wasn't actually a law about talking too much, but there was definitely an attitude that you didn't speak unless you could improve on silence. Today, I must speak, and I cannot be silent. I must speak about a cause that is urgent for your people and for mine. I must speak about peace in the Middle East. I must speak about peace replacing the division, war, and conflict that have brought such disaster for the region and for the world. This was the cause that brought my father King Hussein here in 1994. With Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin beside him, he spoke of a new vision for the Middle East. Their courageous work for peace received bipartisan support from your leaders. And there was tremendous hope for a new era. There was tremendous hope that people would be brought together. There was tremendous hope that a final and comprehensive settlement of all the issues would be achieved. Thirteen years later, that work is still not completed. And until it is, we are all at risk. We are all at risk of being victims of further violence resulting from ideologies of terror and hatred. It is our greatest and most urgent duty to prevent such dangers to our region, to your country and to the world. The choice is ours: an open world full of promise, progress and justice for all; or a closed world of divided peoples, fear, and unfulfilled dreams. Nothing impacts this choice more than the future of peace in the Middle East. I come to you today at a rare, and indeed historic, moment of opportunity, when there is a new international will to end the catastrophe. And I believe that America, with its enduring values, its moral responsibility, and yes, its unprecedented power, must play the central role. Some may say, ``Peace is too difficult. We can live with the status quo.'' But, my friends, violent killings are taking place as part of this status quo. Palestinians and Israelis are not the only victims. We saw the violence ricochet into destruction in Lebanon last summer. And people around the world have been the victims of terrorists and extremists who use the grievances of this conflict to legitimize and encourage acts of violence. Americans and Jordanians and others have suffered and survived terrorist attacks. In this room, there are representatives of American families and Jordanian families who have lost loved ones. Thousands of people have paid the highest price, the loss of their life. Thousands more continue to pay this terrible price, for their loved ones will never return. Are we going to let these thousands of lives be taken in vain? Has it become acceptable to lose that most basic of human rights? The right to live? The status quo is also pulling the region and the world towards greater danger. As public confidence in the peace process has dropped, the cycle of crises is spinning faster, and with greater potential for destruction. Changing military doctrine and weaponry pose new dangers. Increasing numbers of external actors are intervening with their own strategic agendas, raising new dangers of proliferation and crisis. These are groups that seek even more division: faith against faith, nation against nation, community against community. Any further erosion in the situation would be serious for the future of moderation and coexistence, in the region and beyond. Have we all lost the will to live together in peace celebrating one another's strengths and differences? Some may say, ``But there are other, urgent challenges.'' How can there be anything more urgent than the restoration of a world where all people, not only some people, all people have the opportunity to live peacefully? This is not only a moral imperative. It is essential to the future of our world, because long-term, violent crisis is the enemy of all global prosperity and progress. Certainly our era faces critical issues. There is great public concern here, just as in our region, about the conflict in Iraq. The entire international community has vital decisions to make about the path forward, and how to ensure Iraq's security, unity, and future. But we cannot lose sight of a profound reality. The wellspring of regional division, the source of resentment and frustration far beyond, is the denial of justice and peace in Palestine. There are those who say, ``It's not our business.'' But this Congress knows: there are no bystanders in the 21st century. There are no curious onlookers. There is no one who is not affected by the division and hatred that is present in our world. Some will say: ``This is not the core issue in the Middle East.'' I come here today as your friend to tell you that this is the core issue. And this core issue is not only producing severe consequences for our region, it is producing severe consequences for our world. The security of all nations and the stability of our global economy are directly affected by the Middle East conflict. Across oceans, this conflict has estranged societies that should be friends. I meet Muslims thousands of miles away who have a deep, personal response to the suffering of the Palestinian people. They want to know how it is that ordinary Palestinians are still without rights and without a country. They ask whether the West really means what it says about equality and respect and universal justice. Yes, my friends, today I must speak. I cannot be silent. Sixty years of Palestinian dispossession, 40 years under occupation, a stop-and-go peace process, all this has left a bitter legacy of disappointment and despair on all sides. It is time to create a new and different legacy, one that begins right now; one that can set a positive tone for the American and Middle East relationship; one that can restore hope to our region's people, to your people, and to the people of this precious world. Nothing can achieve that more effectively, nothing can assert America's moral vision more clearly, nothing can reach and teach the world's youth more directly than your leadership in a peace process that delivers results not next year, not in 5 years, but this year. How do we get there? Not by a solution imposed by one side. A lasting peace can only be built on understanding, agreement and compromise. It begins with courage and vision. We, all of us, must take risks for peace. The Arab states recognized that reality in 2002, when we unanimously approved the Arab Peace Initiative. It puts forward a path for both sides to achieve what people want and need: a collective peace treaty with Israel and normal relations with every Arab state, collective security guarantees for all the countries of the region, including Israel, an end to the conflict, a dream every Israeli citizen has longed for since the creation of Israel, and an agreed solution to the refugee problem, a withdrawal from Arab territories occupied since 1967, and a sovereign, viable, and independent Palestine. The commitment we made in the Arab Peace Initiative is real. And our states are involved in ongoing efforts to advance a fair, just, and comprehensive peace. His Majesty King Abdullah Bin Abdul Aziz of Saudi Arabia initiated the 2002 proposal. Today, he continues to rally international support. Momentum is also building among Muslim countries outside the Arab world. Ten days ago, in Islamabad, the foreign ministers of key Muslim states met. They came together to assure Palestinians and Israelis that they are not alone, that we back their effort to make and build peace. The goal must be a peace in which all sides gain. It must be anchored in security and opportunity for all. It must be a peace that will free young Palestinians to focus on a future of progress and prosperity. It must be a peace that makes Israel a part of the neighborhood, a neighborhood that extends from the shores of the Atlantic Ocean, across the breadth of the southern Mediterranean, to the coast of the Indian Ocean. It must be a peace that enables the entire region to look forward with excitement and hope, putting its resources into productive growth, partnering across borders to advance development, finding opportunities, and solving common challenges. This goal is visionary, but, my friends, it is attainable. History shows that longtime adversaries can define new relationships of peace and cooperation. The groundwork for a comprehensive, final settlement is already in place. At Taba, as in the Geneva Accords, the parties have outlined the parameters of the solution. But we need all hands on deck. The international community, especially the United States, must be engaged in moving the process forward to achieve real results. Above all, we must make our process serve our purpose. We must achieve an agreed solution to the conflict. Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Honorable Members, your responsibility today is paramount. Your potential to help Palestinians and Israelis find peace is unrivaled. This is because the people of the region still regard the United States as the key to peace, the one country most capable of bringing the two sides closer together, holding them accountable, and making a just settlement reality. Time after time, there has been progress towards peace when Americans have actively engaged. Camp David, Madrid, Wye River, nearly every breakthrough was accomplished when America was determined to help the parties succeed. On behalf of all those who seek and strive for peace in my part of the world, I ask you now to exert that leadership once again. We ask you to join with us in a historic effort of courage and vision. We ask you to hear our call, to honor the spirit of King Hussein and Yitzhak Rabin, and help fulfill the aspirations of Palestinians and Israelis to live in peace today. Let me reaffirm that Jordan is committed to playing a positive role in the peace process. It is part of our larger commitment to global coexistence and progress. Ours is an Islamic country with a proud record of diversity, moderation, and shared respect. Allow me to say, we thank the Congress and the administration for supporting Jordan's progress and development. I deeply value the partnership between our peoples, and the contributions of so many Americans to the future of our country. My friends, ``A decent respect for the rights and dignity of all nations, large and small.'' That's how President Roosevelt--the great FDR--described the basis of American foreign policy. He pledged American support for the four freedoms, freedom from fear, from want, freedom of speech, and freedom of religion, everywhere in the world. The Four Freedoms speech was given right here, before Congress. And that is entirely fitting. Because it is here in the People's House that the voices and values of America have made hope real for so many people. Today, the people of the Middle East are searching for these four freedoms. Today, the people of the Middle East are searching for new hope, hope for a future of prosperity and peace. We have seen the danger and destruction of violence, hatred, and injustice. But we have also seen what people can achieve when they are empowered, when they break down walls, when they commit to the future. And we know that Middle East peace can be a global beginning, creating new possibilities for our region and the entire world. We look to you to play a historic role. Eleven American Presidents and 30 American Congresses have already faced this ongoing crisis. For not the future generation, but the generation alive today, let us say together: No more. Let us say together: Let's solve this. Let us say together: Yes, we will achieve this. No Palestinian father should be helpless to feed his family and build a future for his sons and daughters. No Israeli mother should fear when her child boards a bus. Not one more generation should grow up thinking that violence and conflict are the norm. As Roosevelt also said, ``The justice of morality must and will win in the end.'' But he knew that it was up to responsible nations to stand up for justice when injustice threatens. This is our challenge as well. And we must not leave it to another generation to meet this challenge. Thirteen years ago, my father was here to talk about his hopes for peace. Today, we are talking about a promise that is within our reach. We can wait no longer and that is why I am here before you. We must work together to restore Palestine, a nation in despair and without hope. We must work together to restore peace, hope and opportunity to the Palestinian people. And in so doing, we will begin a process of building peace, not only throughout the region, but throughout the world. How much more bloodshed and how many more lives will it cost for this grave situation to be resolved? I say: No more bloodshed and no more lives pointlessly taken. The young boy, traveling to school with his brother in Palestine, let him have a life of peace. The mother, watching with fear as her children board a bus in Israel, let her have a life of peace. The father in Lebanon, working hard to provide an education for his children, let him have a life of peace. The little girl, born in Iraq, with her wide eyes full of wonder, let her have a life of peace. The family, together eating their evening meal, in Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Europe, Australia, and the Middle East, let them all have a life of peace. Today my friends, we must speak. We cannot be silent. The next time a Jordanian, a Palestinian, or an Israeli comes before you, let it be to say: Thank you for helping peace become a reality. Peace be upon you. Thank you very much. (####)
03.05.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, today delivered a trade speech entitled, "Using Trade as a Tool to Shape Globalization," at the Center for American Progress (CAP). Below is the text of Mr. Levin's remarks prepared for delivery: Using Trade as a Tool to Shape GlobalizationRep. Sander Levin, ChairWays and Means Trade Subcommittee Center for American ProgressMonday, March 5, 2007As prepared for delivery Introduction The dramatically accelerating pace of globalization is one of the major phenomena of this era. It is almost a cliche to say that it is here to stay. Today we are discussing the role of one of its key elements - trade. Controversy is not new to trade. But it is intensified with the explosion of globalization. In these years of the Bush Administration, there is more division on trade in Washington than in many decades. There has been a serious erosion of the bi-partisan foundation to U.S. trade policy that once reigned and was so important. There is increased dissatisfaction among the public, as shown by public opinion surveys in the U.S. indicating that "60% thought international trade was bad for creating jobs in this country." As is often true, various reasons are given for partisanship and public unease, except unfortunately one's own approach to trade policy. It is said that there is not a proper understanding of the benefits of trade, while the downsides hit home more tangibly. There is some truth to that. There needs to be more discussion of the benefits of expanded trade, its positive impacts both in developed and developing nations, including its role in reducing poverty. But the general public is not foolish. It knows that huge numbers of consumer goods now come from other nations, including China, and that many services are now coming from places like India. Another explanation is that it just reflects the increased forces of "protectionism" and "isolationism". Controversy over trade has always been beset by intense polarization. It early on turned a positive word "protect" into the totally negative term "protectionism". But its robotic use by the Bush Administration and others has only served to strangle debate and is a counterproductive response given the fact that Congressional opposition to the Administration's policies comes from many of us with a strong record of supporting expanded trade. We cannot afford to dismiss the resistance nor caricature it. Let's remember how the trade debate got to where it is today. At the end of the Clinton Administration, there was a shift in trade policy toward a more activist approach that as President Clinton said so eloquently at the World Economic Forum and at the University of Chicago: "to expand trade, but on terms that benefit all people..to have trade agreements that lift everybody up, not pull everybody down." Those later years brought us the Cambodia Textiles and Apparel Agreement, where an increase in the textile and apparel import quota was included as a positive incentive to strengthen labor standards; the Jordan Free Trade Agreement, which included labor and environmental provisions enforceable in the same manner as all other provisions; and a China PNTR bill with a special safeguard to shield against import surges, a Congressional-Executive Commission with jurisdiction over human rights, worker rights and rule of law and major provisions for oversight of China's adherence to their WTO commitments. Each of these initiatives - expanding and shaping trade - passed with broad bi-partisan support. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration did not build on these successes, but rather took a different approach. The basic belief of many, in and outside of the Bush Administration, is that markets will work out their own deficiencies, that the conditions are basically a reflection of the operation of "comparative advantage," and a result of the burst of technology, not trade policy, so the best response often is to "let it be" and at most consider helping those who are hurt. This approach ends up treating trade liberalization as an end in itself. Others-myself included-view trade liberalization as an important tool, not an end in itself. That "leaving it be" often should not be. It has often led to a passive rather than active approach to key trade issues, a strategy that locks in the shortcomings of the status quo. Instead, I embrace an internationalist vision that shapes trade policy to maximize its benefits and minimize its downsides. Growth with equity is the best way to ensure the benefits of globalization are spread more broadly. I titled my remarks "Using Trade as a Tool to Shape Globalization". I now want to discuss how this issue of "shaping" globalization relates to the trade issues now pending before the Congress and the Administration. As I do so, I am aware that it can be argued that recognizing the role of some important underlying differences would make it more difficult to reach accord on trade issues and forge the necessary restoration of bi-partisan support for trade. I disagree. The failure to dig beneath the surface and put differences on the table has only increased the appeal of populism, here in Washington and elsewhere, and in my opinion has undermined our ability to move forward. I. The Trade Deficit The U.S. trade deficit set another record high last year reaching $764 billion. Its causes are multi-faceted, as are the consequences. It is a hot issue inside and outside of Congress. Those who maximize its importance point to the additional historically high dollar reserve held by foreign governments when invested in U.S. treasury notes resulting in historically high indebtedness of the U.S. foreign governments, including China and Japan. Those who minimize it urge that a main problem is the low savings rate in the U.S. and that the trade deficit went up mostly because of oil imports -- though that does not explain the increases with China and Japan which do not export oil. But a perspective on trade policy also appears at work in shaping the minimalist point of view. It was illustrated during USTR Susan Schwab's appearance before the Ways and Means Committee. There was not a single USTR chart relating to the rise in imports. Starting from a far higher base than exports and having in recent months a slightly lower percentage increase, imports remain far larger in dollar terms than exports. When asked about this, the Ambassador's response was to acknowledge only the positive aspects of imports. Her example was how imports helped consumers, using as evidence imported flowers available at lower costs to consumers that day for Valentine's Day. In all of the charts and materials presented that day by USTR, there was no reference to other aspects of imports, such as lost jobs in the U.S and the loss of manufacturing capacity. This exchange suggested a passivity about major imbalances and their impact. It has been embodied in the Administration's approach in negotiating the Korea Free Trade Agreement. II. The U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement This is by far the most commercially significant bi-lateral FTA that the Bush Administration has negotiated. There are several outstanding issues, including agricultural--beef and rice. Perhaps the most challenging one relates to Korea's massive non-tariff barriers to American industrial products in general and automotive products in particular. Since the outset, Korea has had an economic iron curtain against these products, using a combination of tariffs, taxes, and regulations. The facts tell the whole story. Last year Korea sold 700,000 cars in the U.S.; the U.S. sold 4,000 in Korea, the fifth largest automotive market in the world. This is more than an unbalanced field for trade. The Korean Government wants a reduction in the present automotive tariff (2.5 percent on autos and 25 percent on trucks). The U.S. automotive industry has insisted that any reduction in the 2.5 percent tariff be tied with measurable increases in access to the Korean market. The immediate and persistent USTR response to industry and members of Congress has been a flat "no" and in FTA negotiations USTR proposed to set up a working group. There has been no effort by USTR to see if there was a meaningful formula to assure a real change, dismissing proposals as "industrial policy" and ignoring the fact that two previous Korean commitments in "Memorandums of Understanding" (MOUs) were not worth the paper they were written on. Korea has successfully pursued an industrial policy, following the Japanese model, of sheltering its market and using profits from higher prices in their domestic market to sell autos cheaper in the U.S. and pour the profits into R & D to improve their products in competition with American cars. We welcome competition that helps improve our products, but not distorted markets which surely are not part of "creative destruction." Last week a bi-partisan group of legislators transmitted to the President a specific negotiating position that moves beyond previous negotiating strategies and embarks on a new approach that addresses the United States' legitimate concerns that Korea will not obtain additional access to the U.S. market unless there is reciprocal opening of the Korean auto market. There are two key components to the bi-partisan Congressional proposal. The first part addresses the phase-out of the 2.5 percent U.S. passenger vehicle tariff and creates a positive incentive for Korea to open its market to U.S. autos. The second part addresses Korea's current non-tariff barriers and creates a mechanism - available to all industries - for the United States to take action against future non-tariff barriers. The Administration's handling of this aspect of the Korea FTA goes beyond a passive approach to a highly unbalanced field in trade. It is acquiescence in one- way trade, assuming one-way markets will eventually turn themselves into two- way streets or that the one with the closed market will only hurt itself. It was also suggested in discussion last week with a leading economist that we should not worry about Korea's barriers because even if they were torn down it would not matter much because the U.S. producers would not ship much to Korea anyway. The problem with this thinking is that addressing any factor in trade is incremental; continuing to ignore parts leads to a rather large whole, indeed a large hole. And sending the wrong signal in this bi-lateral leads to the wrong message in the Doha Round where progress on non-tariff barriers is also essential. III. China China's entry into the WTO presented both opportunities and challenges. This Administration has failed to use the tools given to it as part of PNTR to shape the challenges. As reflected in GAO and other reports, the Administration has failed to use the annual WTO review process to actively press China to comply with its commitments. In each of the four cases filed under the General Safeguard provision negotiated as part of PNTR in which the International Trade Commission has found the domestic industry deserving of relief, the Administration has refused to take action. Despite rampant violation by China of its WTO Intellectual Property Rights commitments (the estimate is that 80-90% of books, DVD, CD, and films under U.S. intellectual property protection are sold as counterfeits in China), the Administration has held discussions but never filed a complaint with the WTO. Last year, after years of inaction from the Administration, a case was filed regarding auto parts. Very recently, the Administration announced that it was beginning WTO action against a small slice of China's massive subsidies, which many observers said was a reaction to the November election results and the need for the Administration to appear more active on enforcement as it sought renewal of expiring fast track authority. The overall laxity in approach to enforcement is consistent with the underlying belief that markets should be left alone and will balance themselves. That damage from inaction is less likely than from action, and that the side seeking balance is the "protectionist," not the one violating its obligations. This has helped lead to record trade deficits with China. Since 2001, the U.S. trade deficit with China has grown from $83.1 billion to $232.5 billion last year. In Advanced Technology Products the trade deficit was up 17% from $47.0 billion in 2005 to $55.1 billion in 2006. A few weeks ago the Trade Subcommittee held the first in a series of hearings on China that focused on the issue of subsidies and intellectual property rights. Last week, Reps. Artur Davis and Phil English introduced a bi-partisan bill to ensure that the United States starts to apply the U.S. countervailing duty law to non-market economy countries. The United States already applies countervailing duties to unfairly subsidized and injurious imports from market-economy countries, and it should do the same with respect to imports from non-market economy countries like China. A private right of action is necessary because the Administration has demonstrated it either cannot or will not expeditiously address these subsidies itself. It will also provide the Administration with a critical tool to uncover the subsidies in China that China has refused to notify itself. Countervailing duty investigations are just that: investigations. There may be no better way for the United States to identify and quantify the subsidies in the Chinese market - or the injury they cause to industries in the United States. I look forward to seeking quick action on this legislation. IV. Peru, Colombia and Panama Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) The FTAs negotiated by USTR with these nations clearly will expand markets in these nations for American products and services as well as agricultural goods like wheat, cotton and soybeans. Despite the serious controversy over the Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) -- resulting in its passage by only two votes after a long struggle on the House Floor -- USTR negotiated the same provisions in the three pending FTAs that were in the center of the CAFTA controversy. As to the rights of workers and the environment, the standard is that nations only must enforce their own laws, no matter how deficient. In Peru, Colombia and Panama, workers do not have in law or practice their basic international rights, including what is most significant for the vast majority of workers, the right to associate and bargain collectively. One need only look at reports of the State Department, the International Labor Organization (ILO) or Human Rights Watch. This issue is not a "social" one, as argued early on by defenders of the Administration's status quo, but an economic one which is what provides its significance and fuels its controversy. Domestically, as our nation faced issues of huge gaps in the distribution of wealth and poverty, there was immense controversy over the rights of workers and their role in economic development. Many business leaders and economists argued to leave the answer to market forces and against "government interference." Eventually the argument was won domestically that actively shaping the operation of the market to make sure that workers possessed their basic rights would help to create middle classes and spread the benefits of accelerating economic growth. Now globalization has thrust the issues of worker rights into the sphere of economic relations and competition between nations. Peru, Colombia, and Panama have huge discrepancies in the distribution of wealth and immense poverty, contributing to make Latin America the region in the world with the widest spread of distribution of income and most often weak middle classes. Democrats have actively urged that incorporating the core international labor standards in these three FTAs is mutually important for both parties -- for the workers in nations like Peru, for the nation overall which needs to develop a stronger middle class, for workers in our nation who do not want to compete with workers whose rights are suppressed, and for our businesses and its workers who need middle classes in other nations to buy our goods and services. When former President Toledo spoke in 2006 at an informal meeting of Ways and Means Committee, he said that for globalization to work, its benefits must be more widely shared. For that to occur, he continued, workers must be able to exercise their basic international rights, and for that to be carried out, the five core labor standards should be incorporated with enforcement in the body of trade agreements. President Toledo reiterated that position two days later in front of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The first response of USTR was to claim President Toledo did not say what he said. It continued insisting on "enforce your own laws" as the standard, though many of us made clear we would oppose an FTA built on that provision. A provision that would lock in an unacceptable status quo, or worse. Since the November election, amidst the talk from USTR about the need for bi-partisan discussions on this issue and about finding a "new template," there has been a shift in their argument against incorporation of the international standards in the FTA. USTR and Republicans are claiming that including International Labor Organization (ILO) core labor standards could lead to actions through the FTA requiring significant change in U.S. law. This argument is a further evasion of the issue. The 1998 ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work represented consensus among 175 countries, in a tripartite process involving governments, workers, and business representatives - including, of course, the U.S. government and the U.S. Council for International Business, as well as the AFL-CIO. The Declaration binds all ILO members - by virtue of their membership in the ILO - to "respect, promote, and realize" the core labor standards (freedom of association and the right to organize and bargain collectively, and prohibitions on child labor, forced labor, and discrimination in employment). We are not seeking in trade agreements to impose a new standard, or a U.S. standard, only that countries reaffirm an obligation they have already committed to. In creating a double standard, the USTR proposal creates no meaningful standard at all. It says to the U.S. "enforce your own labor law." As to the other nation, it says carry out the ILO standards or have laws that are "equivalent" to U.S. labor law. To seek "equivalency" with U.S. law misses the point as to the basic developments which need to occur in these nations. The ILO standards provide a framework and whether a country brings their laws and practices into compliance depends on the situation on the ground in the nation - the traditions, values, socio-economic conditions, and overall legal framework. For example, as to the rights of workers, the language in the laws of the former Soviet Union may have given workers their rights, perhaps more than the precise language in U.S. labor law. But in view of all of the conditions in the Soviet Union would anyone argue that workers in the Soviet Union enjoyed rights "equivalent" to workers in the U.S.? If a nation has laws "equivalent" to the U.S. but workers are murdered when they try to form a union, do they have their rights of association? The USTR proposal shifts the focus from the obligation of these nations to carry out their commitment as signatories to the ILO Declaration, to a legalistic argument over whether the letter of the law in one nation is "equivalent" to those of the U.S. For example, in Peru, a system of subcontracts and individual contracts set up by the Fujimori regime eroded the rights to associate and bargain collectively by permitting employers to shift workers covered by collective bargaining agreements to short-term contracts extended at the whim of the employer. The result of the USTR proposal would be lawyers arguing about whether they could demonstrate "equivalency" with U.S. laws on subcontracting as opposed to whether in Peru workers in reality possess their basic right to associate and bargain collectively. The ILO has a body of experience in applying these standards that give them meaning in a context relevant to each of these three Latin American nations. The ILO has examined their laws and the overall conditions in which the laws of each of the nations have operated. They have issued reports assessing the reality on the ground and have recommended remedial action. The USTR proposal turns its back on this experience, and the progress made under the General System of Preferences (GSP) system which relies on the ILO standards. Other nations would undoubtedly choose to forego bringing their own laws and practices into compliance with the ILO standards and instead try to find some small aspect of U.S. labor law that could demonstrate "equivalency" in the written word. The U.S. would likely never bring a complaint under the proposal made by the USTR since we would be bringing into the dispute settlement system the entire U.S. labor code. Legal contentions about written "equivalency" of laws must not be a substitute for a clear obligation with a nation with whom we have an FTA to bring one's own laws and conditions into compliance with basic international standards. The Republican argument that a two-way street where the U.S. also reaffirms its obligation as a signatory to the ILO declaration would open U.S. laws to major change denies reality. The Department of Labor has stated that our laws are basically in compliance. Furthermore, under the FTA only the other government, not American unions or any other private party in either country could bring a claim under the FTA dispute settlement system; any conduct would have to be a persistent action having a direct effect on trade. Time is urgent and key issues cannot be finessed. There is a March 31 deadline for Congress to be given notice and the contents of an FTA by the Administration in order for that Agreement to be covered by the procedures of the present Fast Track Authority. There are several other issues that need to be resolved including environmental and IPR medicine issues and human rights in Colombia. As to worker rights, failure to revise these three FTAs to directly incorporate the ILO core labor standards with enforcement and reasonable transition will not only be a ticket to their defeat in Congress, but a missed opportunity. V. Currency In the controversy over globalization, currency issues have moved to center stage. The Asian nations, China, Japan, and Korea, possess huge trade surpluses with the U.S. The reasons are complex, there being no single cause but many, including quality of product, a multitude of cost factors, levels of consumer demand and rates of saving. The U.S. demand for oil, a substantial component of our overall deficit, is not relevant as to these Asian nations which ship no oil to us. Several questions have arisen as to the role of the rate of currency: Are the Asian currencies weak and the U.S. dollar strong? If so, by how much? Does this make their exports less costly for us to buy and our exports to them more costly to buy? Can this directly impact trade? Finally, are there trade- related steps that could be taken by the U.S. to impact the currency valuation? A few weeks ago, we held our first bi-partisan, off-the-record discussion with Trade Subcommittee members and outside experts on the issue of currency. While some economists offer theories that the Asian currencies are not weak vis-a-vis the dollar, I believe the answer is overwhelmingly that they are. Interestingly, in our session, while there was disagreement among the economists as to China, they all agreed as to the weakness of the Japanese currency. Toyota itself said, "a weak yen, which boosts the value of overseas earnings, added 30 billion yen to the third quarter." It is calculated that this adds on average $4000 to its profits for a car shipped to the U.S. That flow increased by 500,000 last year as Toyota shipped more vehicles here last year than it made in the U.S. American manufacturers estimate that imbalance with China's currency puts them at anywhere from a 15% to 40% disadvantage. The response by the Administration has been a rhetorical one with China and denial of a problem with Japan. It was evident recently when the Administration reacted to indications from the European Union that at the G-7 meeting it was going to try to place on the agenda a discussion of the impact of the weak yen on European manufacturing. The Japanese indicated their opposition. Secretary of the Treasury Paulson indicated that he would side with Japan. One reason given by Treasury was that Japan had not directly intervened monetarily since early 2004. In a revealing portion on his recent book, the former Under Secretary of Treasury for International Affairs, John Taylor, describes how the U.S. not only countenanced but supported and helped direct the path of such intervention, even though Treasury realized it would injure industrial producers in our nation. So there is not only the clear precedent of massive Japan intervention -- a signal that such action would again be taken if felt necessary. There are other explicit policies keeping the yen regulated. They include very low interest rates and an entire host of structural policies that combine to keep Japan's economy fundamentally based on exports, advantaged by the weak yen and sustained by the weak domestic consumer demand. The Secretary's position means relying on market forces -- even if they are not free. The response to one-way trade is that its user will only hurt itself, if not right away, then in the long run. The trouble is that in the long run the competitors on our side will be gone. In the past we have tried to leverage action by the Administration by filing Section 301 petitions that would initiate with China discussions as to their currency policies and could result in a case at the WTO if the issues were not resolved. Others are proposing that we change the law to define currency manipulation as a subsidy so that cases could be brought under U.S. trade remedy laws and that approach will also get full consideration after the non-market economy legislation. You will see more hearings - some of them jointly held by committees of jurisdiction - and continued efforts to get the Administration to join us in confronting this important issue. VI. WTO Doha Negotiations Negotiations of this Round have proceeded in fits and starts. I am very supportive of the intention of this Round - the Development Round - to spread the benefits of globalization more broadly and more equitably. There are varying estimates of the increased trade that would result from a successful negotiation. Some suggest $287 billion. Others challenge such claims and analyze a quantitative result several times lower. Past experience with highly optimistic projections, including those claimed for NAFTA, give reason for caution. There has been only the most rudimentary progress in the significant services negotiations. There remain major potential pitfalls. The Uruguay Round provided a dispute settlement system with finality, a necessary step. It did not make reforms in the opaque process in the system. This has allowed panels to roam in their decisions far beyond what was spelled out and agreed to by the parties. This has undermined support in the U.S. for the World Trade Organization (WTO). In the industrial sector, during the negotiations at Doha, there was pressure on USTR to assure that non-tariff barriers would receive equal focus as reductions in tariffs. Despite USTR's assurances that it is being achieved, so far that has not happened. It is of special importance to our nation, whose manufacturing sector is the most open in the world while other industrial nations like Japan and Korea are virtually closed because of their non-tariff barriers. To date, of course, the center of controversy has been the agricultural sector. So far the spotlight has been on a potential breakthrough between the U.S. and the E.U. Less attention has been paid to the impact of an opening of full global market competition on small farmers in developing nations. A recent study by Carnegie suggested that it could be highly dislocating. There is considerable evidence in drafting NAFTA that there was insufficient attention paid to the impact in Mexico. The Bush trade policies have eroded the broad base of bi-partisan support so essential to navigating all of the difficult outstanding issues. VII. Trade Promotion Authority - Fast Track Some have suggested that a Doha breakthrough might drive the renewal of Trade Promotion Authority. I believe that the issue of renewal of Fast Track cannot be considered abstractly. It will be several months at least before we know whether there is a breakthrough on agriculture. Further, as long as there is no success in ironing out key policy differences, with a new majority in Congress, a broad re-authorization should not and will not occur. Focusing on renewal of Fast Track now or opposing it is putting the cart before the horse. It is correct that 535 Members of Congress cannot negotiate trade agreements nor have an open field to amend after negotiation. But the Executive cannot have an open field to negotiate, with Congress left only afterwards to judge how the points add up. This Congress will insist on a more meaningful role during negotiations. The present advisory structure, the Congressional Oversight Group, has been very ineffective, as I saw sitting there in the minority. Oversight of the Executive by Congress on trade issues these last years has been as routine as oversight by Congress on other sets of key issues. If there is a Doha breakthrough, we will have to see if this Administration is really willing to have Congress as a major partner, discussing fully where it is going on key issues. There already are indications that the Administration has some ideas of where it would press and where it would give way in the Doha round, but it wants to hold these cards close to the vest, without informing Congress until the cards are put on the table. That won?t work. VIII. Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) It also won't work - as too often has been suggested in the past - to suggest that an expansion of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) can facilitate the extension of Fast Track. It is vital to strengthen our overall training, re-training, and support system for dislocated workers. This should not be seen as a substitute for needed changes in our trade policies themselves to help keep our businesses and our workers in operation rather than dislocation. While the U.S. has suffered more dislocation than most industrial nations, we have the most inadequate and ineffective structure for assisting and supporting the dislocated workers. It starts late compared to other nations that move quickly when dislocation is likely, it supports come mainly through unemployment compensation which runs out in 26 weeks, and it is augmented with no comprehensive integrated network of programs. TAA is an improvement over our unemployment system but it does not cover enough workers. For those covered it is often hard to access and its training funds run out. Only one-third or less of eligible workers enroll in training and only 11 percent of those potentially eligible for the health care subsidy (a credit that covers only 65 percent of health insurance premiums) find it useable. With TAA up for re-authorization this year, we will look at a variety of proposals to strengthen the support system for dislocated workers, including covering service workers, allowing the certification of whole industries, simplifying the application process, ensuring that the training funds are fully adequate and improving the health care component so that it is actually meaningful. These changes are vital to respond to the loss of jobs among hard-working Americans and to promote the competitiveness of the American workforce. But, it is just that a response. It can not be a response to a failed trade policy, because we have the responsibility - first and foremost - to get that trade policy right in the first place. Time is short, and valuable day have been lost, in part because the Administration has had difficulty adjusting to the presence of a new Majority in Congress. I remain optimistic that necessity may still be the mother of invention - or in this case change. (####)
03.02.2007	(Washington D.C.)- As the U.S. and South Korea Free Trade Agreement enters into the eighth round of negotiations, a broad range of Members of Congress today presented a groundbreaking proposal to address South Korea?s closed automotive market. The bipartisan letter to President Bush outlined a comprehensive "Congressional Proposal to Open Korea's Automotive Market," reflecting a pragmatic, trade-expanding, WTO-consistent approach that provides concrete, achievable positive incentives for Korea to open its automotive market and ensure the elimination of current and future non-tariff barriers in all industries. This proposal outlines what the United States needs to negotiate to achieve a satisfactory resolution to Korea's closed automotive market. The letter states, "Our proposal moves beyond previous negotiating strategies and embarks on such a new approach that addresses the United States' legitimate concerns that Korea will not obtain additional access to the U.S. market unless there is reciprocal opening of the Korean auto market." There are two key components to the Congressional proposal. -- "The first part addresses the phase-out of the 2.5% U.S. passenger vehicle tariff and creates a positive incentive for Korea to open its market to U.S. autos. -- "The second part addresses Korea's current non-tariff barriers and creates a mechanism - available to all industries - for the United States to take action against future non-tariff barriers." The letter, circulated by Rep. Sander Levin (Chairman, Trade Subcommittee of Ways and Means) is signed by Senators Carl Levin (D-MI) and George Voinovich (R-OH), co-chairs of the Senate Auto Caucus, Reps. Dale Kildee (D-MI) and Fred Upton (R-MI), co-chairs of the House Auto Caucus. The letter is also signed by Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN), and Reps. Charles Rangel (D-NY and Chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means), John Dingell (D-MI and Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce), Ron Kind (D-WI), Ellen Tauscher (D-CA), Joe Knollenberg (R-MI), Candice Miller (R-MI), Vernon Ehlers (R-MI), and Thaddeus McCotter (R-MI). Below is the full text of the letter to President Bush: March 1, 2007 The President The White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing in advance of the eighth round of U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement negotiations, to present the enclosed Congressional Proposal to Open Korea's Automotive Market. This proposal reflects a pragmatic, trade-expanding, WTO-consistent approach that provides concrete, achievable positive incentives for Korea to open its automotive market and ensure the elimination of current and future non-tariff barriers in all industries. This proposal represents what we believe the United States needs to negotiate to achieve a satisfactory resolution to Korea's closed automotive market. In addition, it is a proposal that should be welcomed by Korean consumers and by the Bush Administration because it will lead to a more competitive market in Korea with greater choice of products and more competitive prices. We have developed this proposal out of our growing concern that these negotiations will fail to effectively tear down Korea's non-tariff barriers, prevent Korea from using future non-tariff barriers to maintain its closed market indefinitely, and ensure access for imports to Korea's automotive market. For decades, Korea has enjoyed open access to the U.S. auto market. At the same time, it has kept its own market virtually shut to foreign competition through the use of an import ban, followed by high tariffs, coupled with a complex and discriminatory tax regime, coupled with systemic, comprehensive and long-standing regulatory barriers, coupled with periodic anti-import campaigns by the Government of Korea. The issue of our inability to break down long-standing and discriminatory barriers in a bicameral negotiation would seriously undermine our ability to address non-tariff barriers in the more comprehensive multilateral negotiations underway at the World Trade Organization. Given the importance of this issue, we have made consistent and repeated calls for the United States to undertake a new approach with Korea that addresses in a complete, comprehensive, and systemic way the long-standing policies by which Korea created and maintains a fundamentally closed automotive market. The U.S. automotive industry and union leadership also have called upon the Administration to take a new approach. To date, however, no new approach has been put forth that would lead to genuine market opening in Korea. Instead, we understand that the proposals which have been exchanged have been similar to the same ones that were tried repeatedly in the past and that have failed to achieve any meaningful access for U.S. products. Our proposal moves beyond previous negotiating strategies and embarks on such a new approach that addresses the United States' legitimate concerns that Korea will not obtain additional access to the U.S. market unless there is reciprocal opening of the Korean auto market. There are two key components to the Congressional proposal. The first part addresses the phase-out of the 2.5% U.S. passenger vehicle tariff and creates a positive incentive for Korea to open its market to U.S. autos. The second part addresses Korea's current non-tariff barriers and creates a mechanism - available to all industries - for the United States to take action against future non-tariff barriers. A copy of the proposal is enclosed, as well as a briefing paper that summarizes its key elements. The Korean automotive market presents a significant potential market for U.S. exports of cars and automotive products and would greatly benefit the U.S. automotive industry and the hundreds of thousands of workers it employs and supports. U.S. automotive manufacturers can compete effectively in an open and fair Korean auto market. We look forward to discussing how our proposal achieves a truly open market and more balanced automotive trade with Korea. Sincerely, /s The Honorable Charles B. Rangel The Honorable Carl LevinChairman, House Committee on Co-Chair, Senate Auto Caucus Ways and Means The Honorable Sander M. Levin The Honorable George V. Voinovich Chairman, Subcommittee on Trade Co-Chair, Senate Auto CaucusHouse Committee on Ways and Means The Honorable John Dingell The Honorable Evan BayhChairman, House Committee on Chairman, Senate Banking Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on International Trade, Finance, and Security The Honorable Dale E. Kildee The Honorable Debbie StabenowCo-Chair, House Auto Caucus Member, Senate Committee on Finance The Honorable Ron Kind The Honorable Fred UptonMember, House Committee on Co-Chair, House Auto Caucus Education and the Workforce The Honorable Ellen O. Tauscher The Honorable Joe KnollenbergChair Member, House CommitteeNew Democrat Coalition on Appropriations The Honorable Candice S. Miller The Honorable Vernon J. EhlersMember, House Committee on Member, House Committee on Armed Services Transportation and Infrastructure The Honorable Thaddeus McCotterMember, House Committee on Budget and Foreign Affairs Click here to read the summary of the proposal. (####)
02.15.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), the Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, today offered the following opening statement - as prepared for delivery - of the Trade Subcommittee Hearing on trade with China: OPENING STATEMENT BEFORE THE IPR PANEL "I wish to thank all of the members of this distinguished panel. "There doesn't seem to be any disagreement that China is failing to honor the commitments it made when it joined the WTO in December 2001. With respect to the enforcement of intellectual property rights, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative recently stated that 'the reality of IPR enforcement in China continues to lag far behind the commitment made by China's government . . . in 2004, and renewed in 2005 and 2006, to achieve a significant reduction in IPR infringement throughout China.' Those commitments followed commitments China made when it joined the WTO - but few seem to have been honored. "The question is: What should we, the United States, do about that - and why have we made so little progress over the past five years in getting China to significantly reduce IPR infringement? "The Administration has only filed three WTO cases against China - and none of them relate to the IPR issue. Last October, I and others House Democrats wrote to the President seeking immediate and effective action to address IPR infringement in China. I hope that action is near. "I understand that in 2005 between 85% and 93% of music CDs, business software, entertainment software, and movie DVDs in China were pirated. Those levels weren't significantly higher - and couldn't be much higher - in 2002, when China joined the WTO. That piracy has cost those U.S. industries $2.6 billion in 2005 alone. "But the problem affects more than just a few large entertainment companies. It affects small and medium-sized U.S. companies - and workers - from sectors as diverse as automotive parts, electrical equipment, and athletic footwear. In that regard, I look forward to hearing the testimony of you, Mr. Baranay. I understand your small company has suffered tremendously from China's failure to stop IPR infringement. "I welcome all of you, and I look forward to your testimony." OPENING STATEMENT BEFORE THE SUBSIDIES PANEL "I would like to thank all of you for testifying today on this important issue to American businesses, farmers, and workers. "Three facts stand out from the written testimony that you and others have provided, and from the reports the Administration has prepare over the years. "First, with the government's massive intervention in the economy, the subsidy issue in China is of critical importance to the United States. While USTR took an important step last month in filing a WTO case against nine Chinese subsidy programs that are prohibited under WTO rules, those programs are only the tip - of the iceberg. China has notified the WTO of 70 subsidy programs it maintains - and the Administration knows there are many more at the local and provincial government levels, not to mention with state-owned banks. "Second, China isn't honoring the commitments it made when it joined the WTO more than five years ago [December 2001] - or the commitments it has made to the United States since then. Year after year, it has failed to honor its commitment to provide crucial information about its subsidies programs. And it has failed to honor its commitment to terminate all 'prohibited' subsidy programs - subsidies that, by definition, are designed by the government to artificially stimulate exports from China, and to discriminate against imports into China. "The United States has responded to these failures by seeking a second, third, or even fourth commitment from China to honor its first commitment. I don't think that gets us anywhere. "Finally, it seems even the experts admit how little they know about subsidies in China. China has withheld - and continues to withhold - information that it was required to provide to the WTO. As the staff of USTR has stated, 'Full compliance with the reporting requirement is critical in the case of China because of the general lack of detailed, specific, publicly available data on [Chinese] government subsidy policies and practices, particularly at the sub-central level.' "We need to proceed on multiple fronts to address these problems. But, in my view, the first step should be to provide American businesses, farmers, and workers with a 'private right of action' to defend themselves against unfairly subsidized and injurious imports from China and other non-market economy countries. That is to say, we need to ensure that the United States starts to apply the U.S. countervailing duty law to non-market economy countries. "The United States already applies countervailing duties to unfairly subsidized and injurious imports from market-economy countries, and it should do the same with respect to imports from non-market economy countries like China. "A private right of action is necessary because the Administration has demonstrated it either cannot or will not address these subsidies itself. "But a private right of action will also provide the Administration with a critical tool to uncover the subsidies in China that China has refused to notify itself. Countervailing duty investigations are just that: investigations. There may be no better way for the United States to identify and quantify the subsidies in the Chinese market - or the injury they cause to industries in the United States. "Thank you again for coming today. I look forward to your testimony." (####)
02.15.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today in support of the Iraq Resolution. To view video of Mr. Levin giving his full statement, please click here directing you to a website off the House site. Below is the text of Mr. Levin's full prepared statement: "I rise in strong support of the resolution before the House. We need to send a clear, bipartisan message to the White House that there is little support in Congress for deepening our open-ended military commitment in Iraq by sending an additional 21,000 troops into this conflict. "The debate we are having today is about the future of our nation's policy in Iraq. So my main focus will not be to catalog the litany of the Administration's past grave mistakes and misstatements over the last four years. "At the same time, as a lesson for the future, it is important to remember that the war in Iraq was the first application of what has become known as the Bush Doctrine. This policy was unveiled by the President in his commencement speech at West Point in June of 2002 and made policy a few months later in the Administration's 2002 National Security Strategy. "The Administration's doctrine stressed preemptive attack, U.S. military superiority, and U.S. unilateral action. This flawed policy has proven to be disastrous. It has destabilized Iraq and threatens to undermine the stability of the entire region. The doctrine blinded the Administration to the Pandora's Box it was opening when it invaded Iraq in search of weapons of mass destruction that did not exist, and 9-11 terrorists that were not there. "Far from strengthening U.S. security, this misguided doctrine has put our nation's vital interests at greater risk. The elevation of unilateralism has helped erode our nation's standing in the world. "The recently released National Intelligence Estimate for Iraq underscores just how flawed the Administration's doctrine has been. It paints a bleak picture of the growing violence and polarization in Iraq. Among the key judgments of the U.S. intelligence agencies: -- "Iraqi society's growing polarization, the persistent weakness of the security forces and the state in general, and all sides' ready recourse to violence are collectively driving an increase in communal and insurgent violence and political extremism." -- "Extremists 'continue to act as very effective accelerators for what has become a self-sustaining inter-sectarian struggle between Shia and Sunnis.' -- "The Intelligence Community judges that the term 'civil war' does not adequately capture the complexity of the conflict in Iraq, which includes extensive Shia-on-Shia violence, al-Qa'ida and Sunni insurgent attacks on Coalition forces, and widespread criminally motivated violence.' In other words, Iraq is more than just a civil war; it is a civil war bordering on anarchy. "The judgments of the National Intelligence Estimate reinforce the view that a military solution in Iraq is not possible. The Administration has attempted troop surges in the past and they haven't worked. Adding another 21,000 American troops will not put an end to violence and instability in Iraq. The only chance to do that is for Iraq's leaders and factions to come together and begin the difficult process of political compromise and reconciliation. "The Sunnis, the Shia, and the Kurds have to decide if they want one Iraq or three Iraq's. Sending additional troops only postpones the day when the Iraqis will have to take responsibility for their own country. I believe that announcing the orderly redeployment of U.S. forces is the best way to put pressure on the factions in Iraq to come together and make these difficult choices. "The resolution before the House is straightforward. The resolution states clearly and unambiguously that Congress does not support the President's plan to increase the number of U.S. troops in Iraq by 21,000. The resolution supports our military personnel, but not a further military escalation in support of a strategy that is not working. "Some here have said that this resolution is non-binding and therefore not serious. Others have said that the resolution emboldens our enemies and hurts the troops. How does it embolden our enemies or hurt the troops for this Congress to disapprove continuing a strategy in Iraq that is not working? The resolution we are debating today is non-binding, but it is not non-consequential. I hope the Administration will hear the clear, bipartisan message we are sending and change course. "The question before the House today is whether or not we agree with the President's plan to send 21,000 additional American troops over to Iraq to referee a growing civil war. I do not agree with this escalation. I urge all my colleagues to join me in calling on the President to change course in Iraq. Vote for the resolution." (####)
02.14.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin, Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, today made the following opening statement at the Ways and Means Committee Hearing on the U.S. Trade Agenda with Ambassador Schwab: "Trade policy is at a new crossroads in our nation. Ambassador Schwab, we appreciate that since November you have increased dialogue with the Democratic Majority in the House. What is needed now is a clear agreement on changes of approach to vital trade issues. "As you know, Democrats in the House have long held a deep concern about the direction of U.S. trade policy. The Administration's approach has been far too passive in shaping trade agreements and establishing rules in ways that help raise standards of living in the U.S. and around the globe, in enforcing trade agreements, and in breaking down unfair barriers to U.S. products. "You said on Monday, 'the equation is quite simple..trade agreements mean more exports, and more exports mean better jobs.' "We believe the equation is not nearly that simple. Imports matter as well as exports. More is not automatically better. We strongly favor expanded trade. Not as an end in and of itself but as a tool, shaping the rules of competition to maximize the benefits and minimize the downsides of globalization. ?It is time to craft a new trade policy for this new era of globalization - an activist, internationalist trade policy that expands and shapes trade. To do so requires real collaboration, moving beyond too often perfunctory consultation. "We believe the pending FTAs represent an excellent opportunity if the Administration is truly willing to change its approach. "As to the Latin American FTAs, our position has been clear and consistent: The text of the agreement must include the five core International Labor Organization (ILO) standards, with a reasonable transition period and enforceable like other provisions in the Agreement. "As to the pending Korea FTA, our position is firmly held: among other key outstanding issues, the Agreement must knock down the economic iron curtain to our industrial goods, including automotive, in a measurable way. "Time is of the essence on these and several other issues in the FTA's. The deadline for re-submitting revised agreements under the current TPA is March 31. Democrats being ready to work to meet this deadline, we need to receive concrete proposals on these issues from the Administration. "Setting standards for international competition and knocking down rigid barriers are the opposite of 'protectionism' or 'isolationism', misguided labels sometimes used to avoid real issues. "A real partnership between this Administration and the new Majority to rebuild the bi-partisan foundation for trade is also necessary to address key issues in the WTO round that has faltered, whether agriculture, industrial tariffs and non-tariff barriers, services or rules. "We stand ready to proceed with that kind of true partnership, changing policies where necessary for the benefit of U.S. businesses, workers and farmers in the global marketplace." (####)
02.13.2007	(Washington D.C.)- As the United States Department of Commerce released its 2006 annual trade deficit figures today revealing another record-breaking year of $764 billion, Democratic Congressional leaders urged the Bush Administration to chart a new direction in U.S. trade policy that addresses the explosive U.S. trade deficit and promotes broad-based equitable growth for all Americans. The 2006 trade deficit represents a 6.5 percent increase over the 2005 record. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), House Ways and Means Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI), joined key House Ways and Means Members in sending the following letter to President Bush: February 13, 2007 The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to urge you to work with us to develop a new direction in U.S. trade policy that addresses in a meaningful way the unsustainable U.S. trade deficit, and that promotes broad-based equitable growth for all Americans. The policies the Administration have pursued to date clearly are not achieving those goals, as is painfully apparent from the data released today that show that our trade deficit in 2006 set yet another record of $764 billion, around 6 percent of U.S. GDP. The United States has run record-setting trade deficits for each of the last five years. The consequences of these persistent and massive trade deficits include not only failed businesses, displaced workers, lower real wages, and rising inequality, but also permanent devastation of our communities. From 2000 to 2005, more than three million U.S. manufacturing jobs disappeared, with an estimated one-third of that decline directly related to the rise in the manufactured goods deficit. Wages for the vast majority of Americans are stagnant, even as the country has experienced economic growth and tremendous productivity gains, and leading economists are beginning to attribute directly at least part of that stagnation to globalization and trade. In fact, foreigners have financed 90 percent of the Bush Administration's increase in total Federal debt. In that regard, we have repeatedly urged the Administration to take specific actions to stand up for America. We welcome steps that your Administration has adopted to begin to implement some of our recommendations, including, recently, the long overdue filing of a case at the World Trade Organization (WTO) on one particularly egregious subsidy program provided by China to promote exports. However, to achieve our goals, there needs to be a fundamental shift in U.S. policy, not an occasional step. To date, for the most part, the Administration has largely focused on concluding free trade agreements with countries that account for only a very small percentage -less than 5 percent - of total U.S. trade. We ask you again to join us and develop a meaningful action plan that addresses the burgeoning deficit, and starts the process of reversing the trends in job declines and wage stagnation. In the short term, specific actions on which we invite you to work with us include: Fighting Trade Barriers and Unfair Trade Practices. Our trade deficits with just three of our trading partners account for the majority of the total trade deficit - China at $233 billion, the E.U. at $117 billion, and Japan at $88 billion. These deficits are facilitated by numerous trade barriers and unfair trade practices that keep U.S. industrial and agricultural goods and services out of their markets, and create an unfair playing field in the global market place. To begin with, therefore, we call upon the Administration to present to Congress within 90 days a comprehensive plan to eliminate the surging trade deficits with these "Big 3" economies by tearing down market access barriers and eliminating unfair trading practices that have existed for years - in some cases decades. Second, we must act without any further delay against the following specific barriers and practices, including by: -- Acting aggressively to stop currency manipulation by Japan and China, including by initiating investigations of each countries' practices under section 301 of U.S. law and WTO cases under Articles VI, XV, XVI and other relevant provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), as we have repeatedly urged; -- Enforcing our rights in the WTO by bringing cases against China's intellectual property rights violations, and E.U. discriminatory trading arrangements; -- Enforcing U.S. trade remedy laws vigorously, including by maintaining the ability of the United States to address strategic dumping through the continued use of the zeroing methodology, as provided for under the WTO rules as written; and -- Ensuring U.S. workers, farmer and businesses have an effective means to address China's rampant subsidization of its industries by ensuring that countervailing duty actions can be taken against subsidized Chinese exports. Pursue Meaningful Trade Liberalization Opportunities. The current round of trade negotiations at the WTO, the so-called "Doha Round," has been going on for more than five years, is more than two years behind schedule and has been formally suspended for more than six months. We believe that a strong WTO agreement can create new opportunities for our farmers, workers and businesses. We are encouraged by recent reports that progress may yet be made in the coming months that could lay the basis for negotiators to begin the difficult and arduous task of actually completing a negotiation later this year or next. Let us be clear. Congress is prepared to approve a strong and ambitious WTO agreement that achieves core U.S. objectives, including in the areas of agricultural, manufacturing - including the dismantling of non-tariff barriers - services and preserves (and ensures that WTO dispute settlement does not undermine) strong U.S. fair trade laws. We also urge you to ensure that you conclude the on-going free trade agreement with Korea that meets this same high standard. The interests of our beef producers, automobile manufacturers and innovative pharmaceutical companies should not be bargained away for the sake of completing an agreement. It is also vital that you join us in ensuring that all pending FTAs, as well as the Korea FTA, bring about the broad sharing of benefits in the United States and abroad, including by incorporating in the FTAs an enforceable commitment to adopt and effectively enforce the five internationally recognized basic labor standards. Enhance U.S. Competitiveness. As we try to capture the benefits of globalization, we also must be prepared to equip every child, working person and business in the United States to take maximum advantage of the benefits of globalization, positioning them to adapt successfully to its twists and turns, and effectively for the first time, to addressing the inevitable downsides, which tend to hurt the most vulnerable and least equipped in our society. We stand ready to work with you to improve early childhood education, graduate more scientists and engineers, and sponsor new public-private initiatives to spur research and innovation. Sincerely, /s Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House Steny HoyerHouse Majority Leader Charles B. Rangel, Chairman Committee on Ways and Means Sander M. Levin, ChairmanSubcommittee on Trade John B. Lewis Member of Congress Richard E. NealMember of Congress Michael R. McNulty Member of Congress Xavier BecerraMember of Congress Stephanie Tubbs Jones Member of Congress John B. LarsonMember of Congress Rahm Emanuel Member of Congress Chris Van HollenMember of Congress Kendrick Meek Member of Congress Allyson Y. SchwartzMember of Congress (####)
02.12.2007	(Washington D.C.)- U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, offered the following statement after United States Trade Representative Susan Schwab spoke at the National Press Club on the extension of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): "Changes in Bush Administration trade policies are a necessary prelude to consideration of extending TPA. The Administration must demonstrate quickly that they will use present Trade Promotion Authority well - in working with the new Congress to make necessary changes in Free Trade Agreements with Peru, Panama and Colombia, in negotiations with Korea, and in our bi-lateral trading relationships with China, Japan and other nations. "It is also vital that there be meaningful collaboration with Congress on important World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations that appear to be reconvening. Satisfactory progress in areas such as agriculture, tariffs, non-tariff barriers, services, and retention of rules will also be an important prelude to the consideration of TPA renewal." For example, the USTR should insist right now in the negotiations that South Korea end its discriminatory practices that keep U.S. auto and auto-parts from breaking into the South Korean market. Because of long-standing non-tariff barriers instituted in South Korea, U.S. car companies sold just 5,415 cars in South Korea in 2005. In contrast, South Korea enjoys wide-open access in the U.S. car market with the sale of 688,700 cars. This one-way street has to end. The Bush Administration should also change the pending Free Trade Agreements with Peru, Panama and Colombia to incorporate enforceable international labor standards. Basic standards like a ban on child labor, a ban on forced labor, anti-discrimination, and the right of workers to associate and bargain collectively are a win-win for the U.S. and the developing world. "We must both expand trade and use it as a tool to shape the rules of competition in the era of globalization. The Administration's policy has been far too passive in enforcing trade agreements, in breaking down unfair barriers to U.S. products, and in establishing rules that raise standards of living in the U.S. and around the globe." (####)
02.09.2007	(Washington D.C.)- As the Group of Seven Finance Ministers convene in Essen, Germany today, Congressional leaders urged Secretary of the Treasury, Henry M. Paulson, Jr., join European leaders in pressing the Japanese on the issue of the value of the Yen. House Ways and Means Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander Levin (D-MI), Energy and Commerce Chairman John D. Dingell (D-MI), and Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA), sent the following letter yesterday to Secretary Paulson: February 8, 2007 Secretary Henry M. PaulsonU.S. Department of Treasury1500 Pennsylvania AvenueWashington, D.C. 20220 Dear Mr. Secretary, We would like to follow up on your comments made at the Ways and Means Committee Hearing regarding the G-7 meeting and the issue of the value of the Yen. The question was asked in part because of reports that when the European Union raises this issue, the U.S. is going to side with Japan in not having a serious discussion of the undervalued Yen. There seems to be no doubt that the weak Yen is substantially assisting Japanese imports to the United States. From 2005 to 2006, imports of Japanese cars and trucks rose by more than 30 percent. It is a little understood fact that Toyota's exports to the United States are almost as great as the number of vehicles produced in the United States by Toyota. Japanese vehicle exports to the United States are the same as twenty years ago. We are certain that the weak yen is also boosting Japanese exports in other economic sectors and is having a significant impact on many U.S. producers. Our trade deficit with Japan rose over 17 percent between 2002 and 2005. We raise the following two points in the hope that the U.S. will participate in efforts to rectify a real problem. (1) We believe that a weak Yen is a reflection of Japanese government policy. It reflects the Japanese government?s massive intervention earlier in this decade, an intervention which still reverberates in the value of their currency. The weak Yen also reflects monetary and fiscal policies, including setting low interest rates and failing to stimulate consumer demand. These policies increase Japanese reliance on exports to stimulate economic growth. (China's economic policies show a similar reliance on promoting exports rather than heightening consumer demand). In a word, the evidence is clear that it is not a free market setting the value of the Yen, but Japanese government policy as well. (2) We urge you to press the Japanese government to reverse their weak yen policy through concrete action. The Japanese government should be selling the massive reserves it has accumulated thereby changing the imbalances with the dollar and the Euro. We sincerely hope that you will encourage, not discourage, a frank discussion of this issue that is vital to American manufacturing and sound stewardship of our international economic policies. We look forward to hearing from you about this matter when you return. Sincerely, Charles B. Rangel Sander Levin Chair Chair Ways and Means Committee Trade Subcommittee John D. Dingell Barney FrankChair ChairEnergy and Commerce Committee Financial Service Committee (####)
02.02.2007	(Washington D.C.)- Today, United States Trade Representative (USTR) Susan Schwab announced her intent to bring a case before the World Trade Organization (WTO) to deal with China's unfair subsidies. Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin issued the following statement in response: "I am glad the Administration recognizes that Chinese subsidies are a widespread problem that has caused major harm to American workers, farmers and businesses," said Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin. "Congressional Democrats have long encouraged the Administration to file more cases in the WTO (The Clinton Administration filed an average of eleven WTO cases each year, while the Bush Administration filed only 14 cases in total during its first five years in office). By actively using WTO enforcement procedures, the U.S. can hold China, as well as other trading partners, accountable to their WTO commitments. This case represents a step in the right direction, but it must be part of a much more aggressive program to take actions against violations of WTO obligations." In recent years, Congressional Democrats have urged the Administration to file more cases within the WTO to hold China accountable for its abuses. Last Congress, Democrats introduced legislation that would: -- Direct the U.S. Department of Commerce to apply countervailing duty laws to non-market economy countries, including China. -- Direct the U.S. International Trade Commission to complete, on an urgent basis, a comprehensive analysis of all Chinese subsidy programs affecting U.S. manufacturers and farmers. -- Call for the Administration to file a major case on China's blatant violation of intellectual property rights. (####)
01.31.2007	(Washington D.C.)- The Democratic House of Representatives today passed H.J.Res. 20, a Continuing Resolution funding the Federal Government aimed at cleaning up the budgetary mess left by the Republicans last Congress, on a vote of 286 to 140. The new Congress set priorities by providing additional funding for key Veterans healthcare, highways, and education programs, while putting moratorium on all earmarks until a reformed process is put in place to restore an accountable, above-board, transparent process for funding decisions. "While I am pleased that Michigan will receive the road funding it was promised, this budgetary mess could have been avoided if the last Congress had done its job," said U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak). "By setting some limited priorities and putting a moratorium on earmarks, Democrats have taken the first steps toward restoring fiscal responsibility to the Federal Government. However, more hard work is ahead of us." The 110th Congress was put in a position to pass a Continuing Resolution because the then Republican Congress failed to pass any domestic spending bills at the close of the 109th Congress. Today, the House-passed measure provides $463.5 billion to fund programs in the nine of the eleven appropriations bills that were not completed by the 109th Congress last year. These funding bills were supposed to be completed last October 1. The bill generally holds funding at the FY 2006 levels, but provides additional funding for critical needs, including veterans' health care; medical care for U.S. troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan; medical research, and key education programs. The bill also places a moratorium on Members' earmarks until a reformed process is put in place to provide an accountable and transparent process for funding these projects. The measure now moves to the U.S. Senate for their consideration. (####)
