03.27.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Committee on Oversight and Reform passed by voice vote his bipartisan bill with Rep. Jody Hice (R-GA) called “The Inspector General Protection Act”. The Inspector General Protection Act would require Federal agencies and departments to notify Congress before enacting a personnel change, such as putting their Inspector General (IG) on paid or unpaid non-duty status. The bill would also require the President to report to Congress if an IG has not been nominated within 210 days after a position becomes vacant, including the reasons no one has been nominated and a target date for nominating a replacement. “Inspectors general are critical to ensuring we root out fraud, waste and abuse in our government. Efforts by agencies and administrations to sideline inspectors general threatens our democracy and hinders transparency. I’m grateful that Chairman Cummings and Ranking Member Jordan share Rep. Hice and my concern over this issue, which has plagued both democratic and republican administrations. I look forward to this bill getting a vote on the floor so we can re-establish much-needed authority to our inspectors general.” ###
03.22.2019	LOS ANGELES – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Department of Justice Attorney General William Barr notified Congress that the Special Counsel Robert Mueller had concluded his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. "Today is a historic, proud day for America. Despite multiple attempts by the President to stop, thwart and cast aspersions on the Special Counsel's investigation, Robert Mueller and his team completed their investigation. This was a Republican-led investigation within a Republican-controlled Department of Justice into a Republican President. The fact that Special Counsel Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein kept their jobs shows the continuing strength and vitality of our institutions. Not only did the investigation survive, it resulted in numerous indictments and convictions of those who broke the law, and referred criminal matters to other offices for prosecution. Now the American people and Congress need to see the full report of the Special Counsel's investigation. A summary of the report, as set forth in Department of Justice Regulations, is insufficient. DOJ regulations do not apply to Congress. The American people paid for this report, and the Separation of Powers demands that Congress see the entire report, including the underlying evidence. I look forward to Attorney General Barr providing the entire report to Congress." ###
03.14.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles), who previously served on active duty, and Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY) introduced the bipartisan U.S.-Israel Directed Energy Cooperation Act. The legislation authorizes the Department of Defense to carry out bilateral cooperation with Israel to develop directed energy capabilities that address threats to both nations. Upon introduction, Rep. Lieu said: “The ability to stop ballistic missiles and other major threats through directed energy technology, such as lasers will save lives. This is an opportunity for the U.S. to work with our strongest ally in the region, Israel, to develop technology that will protect against emerging threats. I am proud to introduce the U.S.-Israel Directed Energy Cooperation Act with Rep. Stefanik to support bilateral collaboration with Israel, another leader in directed energy research.” Upon introduction, Rep. Stefanik said: “Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East, and working together to enhance security for both of our nations is of the utmost importance. This bipartisan legislation allows the United States to continue our collaboration with Israel to effectively counter a wide array of adversarial threats across the globe by increasing U.S.-Israel cooperation on directed energy technology to ensure a stronger and more secure nation, and I’m proud to reintroduce it with my colleague across the aisle.” In 2017, the Department of Defense issued a report to Congress on the merits of U.S.-Israel cooperation on directed energy, concluding that, “The United States should pursue joint collaboration with Israel on directed energy capabilities.” In 2018, Michael Griffin, Undersecretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, discussed the future of directed energy weapons at the Directed Energy Summit. According to media coverage, the Undersecretary conveyed that, “America should also take advantage of the brain power that traditional U.S. allies and partners can offer in the development of these technologies so they can be developed together.” ###
03.08.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), who formerly served on active duty in the Air Force, issued the following statement after it was announced that Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson would be leaving her post for a position as the President of University of Texas at El Paso. “I’ve had the great fortune of working on a number of issues with Secretary Wilson. She is a smart, dedicated leader and we were lucky to have her as Air Force Secretary. Her commitment to our country and our armed forces has been deeply impactful and I’m grateful for her service. I wish her all the best at UTEP.” ###
03.08.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after H.R. 1 passed the House of Representatives. H.R. 1 is bold, transformative legislation to put the power back in the hands of the people and restore the people’s faith that government works for the public interest, not the special interests. It is an historic package of democracy and anti-corruption reforms that will ensure that the American people come first in our democracy. Rep. Lieu’s “SWAMP FLYERS” or “Stop Waste and Misuse by Presidential Flyers Landing Yet Evading Rules and Standards” amendment was included in the final package that passed. SWAMP FLYERS prohibits Trump Administration officials from using taxpayer funds for non-commercial air travel. “Promises made, promises delivered,” Mr. Lieu said. More about H.R. 1: Campaign Finance Reform: Ending the dominance of big money in politics – ending the dominance of big money in our political system by requiring transparent disclosure of big-money contributors and special interests; creating a powerful matching system for small donations that amplifies citizens’ voices in politics and breaks the special interest stranglehold on Congress; pushing back on Citizens United; and strengthening oversight of campaign finance by tightening rules on super PACs, empowering the Federal Election Commission’s enforcement abilities, and repealing GOP rules that prevent government agencies from requiring commonsense disclosure of political spending. Restoring Our Democracy: Ensuring clean and fair elections – improving access to the ballot box by combatting institutional barriers to voting, creating nationwide automatic voter registration, ensuring that individuals who have completed felony sentences have their full rights restored, expanding early voting and absentee voting, and modernizing the U.S. voting system; by building the constitutional record necessary to restore the Voting Rights Act; and by prohibiting voter roll purges and ending partisan gerrymandering. H.R. 1 also protects our election systems from attack by enhancing federal support for voting system security, increasing oversight over vendors and developing a national strategy to protect our democratic institutions. Ethics and Accountability: Ensuring public officials work for the public interest – breaking the influence economy in Washington and increasing accountability by expanding conflict of interest law and divestment requirements, slowing the revolving door, preventing Members of Congress from serving on corporate boards and requiring presidents to disclose their tax returns. H.R. 1 also strengthens ethics enforcement by closing loopholes for lobbyists and foreign agents, empowering watchdogs, overhauling the Office of Government Ethics and creating a code of ethics for the Supreme Court. ###
03.06.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) delivered remarks on his amendment to H.R. 1, the SWAMP FLYERS, or “Stop Waste and Misuse by Presidential Flyers Landing Yet Evading Rules and Standards” Amendment. The Amendment was adopted by voice vote and will be included in the final H.R. 1 bill. The amendment would prohibit Trump Administration officials from using taxpayer funds for non-commercial air travel. Repeatedly, this administration’s officials have abused taxpayer funds for lavish air travel with no discernable justification or public benefit. Early in the Trump Administration, former HHS Secretary Tom Price spent over $400,000 of taxpayer funds on private jet travel, including flying to meet his son for lunch. Former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt spent over $58,000 of taxpayer funds on private and military jet travel. Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke spent $39,000 on a helicopter tour of national monuments in Nevada and $12,000 on a private jet from Las Vegas, Nevada, where he spoke to a hockey team owned by a major donor, to his home in Montana. Upon adoption, Mr. Lieu said: “This is a commonsense amendment. It would simply prevent government officials from using taxpayer funds to travel on a non-commercial, private or chartered flight. If your official business does not rise to the level of needing a government plane, the American people should not be on the hook for your lavish travel preferences. As any Member of Congress knows, you can reach any corner of the U.S. by flying commercial. Eliminating waste, fraud and abuse has long been a bipartisan mission of the U.S. Congress—and I can think of few more obvious candidates than paying for private jets for cabinet officials to gallivant around the country. As every Member of Congress can attest, commercial travel can get you to any district in the country. Frankly, it is difficult to believe I have to introduce this amendment. But evidently, multiple Trump cabinet officials apparently believe taxpayer funds can be used for personal travel benefits.” In 2017, Rep. Lieu introduced the SWAMP FLYERS Act, with Reps. Gallego, Raskin and Jayapal. ###
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON – Today Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) sent a letter to Attorney General William Barr calling on him to open a criminal investigation into reports that Jared Kushner intentionally omitted contacts on his security clearance forms. In the letter, the Members write: We are deeply disturbed by recent reports that President Trump ordered his Chief of Staff, John Kelly, to grant Jared Kushner a security clearance, overruling intelligence officials who raised concerns about the clear national security risks of doing so. Taken together with previous reports that Mr. Kushner omitted contacts with more than one hundred foreign persons on his clearance forms – including the Russian Ambassador – we request that the Department of Justice open an immediate investigation to determine if Mr. Kushner is criminally liable for his false statements. Mr. Kushner and Ivanka Trump have both apparently lied in various public interviews and in statements, saying that the President never directed Kelly to grant a clearance for his son-in-law. In an interview on ABC News’ The View on February 8, Ivanka Trump said, “The President had no involvement pertaining to my clearance or my husband’s clearance – zero.” Lying to the public, though disgraceful and unethical, is not ispo facto a criminal act. Lying on one’s SF-86 Questionnaire for National Security Positions, however, is a federal crime under 18 U.S. Code § 1001 punishable by up to five years in prison. It was previously reported that Mr. Kushner had to submit at least three separate addenda detailing over 100 omissions, including the infamous June 2016 meeting he attended in Trump Tower where Russian agents offered “dirt” on then-candidate Hillary Clinton. He also failed to report his meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey I. Kislyak and the head of Russian-owned bank Vnesheconombank. Chairman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) indicated recently the House Committee on Oversight and Reform has accelerated their investigation into the White House security clearance process. However, there is a strong role for the Department of Justice to play in launching a concurrent criminal probe to safeguard our national security secrets and ensure our laws are being upheld – especially given the fact that Chairman Cummings recently stated the White House has not been cooperative in the Committee’s probe. Ultimately, the President and his son-in-law have made a mockery of the security clearance process. Their actions put U.S. national security at risk and offend the thousands of dedicated career officials who both grant and receive clearances the correct way. As Attorney General, your loyalty is to the United States, not Mr. Kushner or even the President. We look forward to a prompt response and thank you for your attention to this serious matter. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
03.03.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler announced this morning the scope of the Committee's oversight agenda in the coming months. "The House Judiciary Committee is starting a massive investigation into whether Donald Trump and his family and associates committed crimes or engaged in unethical misconduct. We cannot avert our eyes to the evidence plainly before us that crimes and other misconduct may have been committed by Trump and those within his orbit. "Unlike the narrow scope of the Special Counsel's investigation--whether there is enough evidence to charge a person with a crime related to Russian interference--the Judiciary Committee's oversight mission is far more broad. We want to know if Executive Branch officials, including the President, committed any crimes or engaged in any unethical misconduct. "We will hold hearings, interview witnesses, analyze documents and build a record. Our investigation will either exonerate Trump and those around him, or it won't. We will then have a conversation with the American people on how to proceed after we conclude our investigation. I want to commend Chairman Jerry Nadler for his strong and steady leadership, and look forward to working with him on this critical investigation." ###
03.01.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Tom Malinowski (D-NJ) led a letter from 13 Members of Congress urging Secretary of State Michael Pompeo to investigate reports that members of the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen are recruiting and deploying child soldiers in the conflict. In the letter, the Members write: According to the New York Times, since the end of 2016, the Saudi-led coalition has recruited as many as 14,000 Sudanese at any given time, including children as young as 14, to fight in Yemen, offering payments of up to $10,000 USD per recruit. Several fighters interviewed stated that children made up at least 20 percent of their units, and two fighters said that children constituted 40 percent. Under the Child Soldier Prevention Act (CSPA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-457), the United States is prohibited from providing several categories of military assistance – including licenses for commercial sales of military equipment – to governments known to use child soldiers. This law was adopted with strong bipartisan support out of a conviction that our country should not support this abhorrent practice. Given the grave nature of the evidence, we urge the administration to: Assess the relationship between Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates regarding Sudanese forces deployed in Yemen and the legal implications with respect to the CSPA; Immediately brief members of Congress on any information it has regarding recruitment and use of child soldiers in Yemen by Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, or any other country, and on any diplomatic efforts it has undertaken to seek an end to the practice; If the reports are accurate, include Saudi Arabia and any of its coalition partners involved in the recruitment or use of child soldiers in the State Department’s 2019 list of governments (published as part of the annual Trafficking in Persons report) that are in violation of the CSPA and subject to sanctions; Implement the sanctions outlined in the CSPA by immediately suspending the following forms of assistance to the Saudi-led coalition: licenses for direct commercial sales of military equipment; foreign military financing for the purchase of defense articles and services, as well as design and construction services; international military education and training; excess defense articles; and peacekeeping operations and other programs; Maintain sanctions until the Saudi-led coalition has: implemented screening procedures to ensure all recruits are at least 18; identified all recruits under 18 and worked with the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund to demobilize and return them to Sudan, and provided assistance for rehabilitation programs; signed an action plan with the United Nations to end violations against children; Immediately review Sudan’s status with respect to the CSPA, including an assessment of its forces deployed in Yemen, and whether evidence exists for Sudan to be put back on the CSPA list in the 2019 Trafficking in Persons report; Finally, in light of credible evidence of Houthi forces forcibly conscripting minors into combat, we urge you to investigate these claims and deliver a report to Congress. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
03.01.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), member of the Foreign Affairs and Judiciary committees, sent a letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray asking him why the Bureau is dismantling its International Human Rights Unit. The unit, which investigates international war crimes, is critical to the U.S.’s leadership on enforcement of international order and the protection of human rights. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: As you know, the IHRU was originally dedicated to hunting down Nazis living in the United States after World War II and has since grown into an important legal and moral bulwark against perpetrators of genocide and other human rights abuses. This work is highly specialized and deserves the attention and expertise that come from having a dedicated federal unit. Not only does the unit focus on crimes committed by foreign actors abroad, but it also addresses international crimes committed against U.S. citizens abroad. Dismantling the office makes U.S. persons less safe. According to an FBI statement, the dissolution of the IHRU “in no way reflects a reduced commitment by the FBI” and existing agents will be reassigned to the Civil Rights Unit (CRU). However, the CRU is dedicated to domestic civil rights cases, with little to no expertise investigating human rights violations or working internationally. Without major adjustments to the structure of the CRU, it remains unclear how it will have the capacity to execute the IRHU’s mission. The decision to shutter the IHRU is particularly confounding in light of the unit’s recent high-profile victory in the conviction of Thomas Woewiyu, a former Defense Minister of Liberia. President Trump also touted the FBI’s work in identifying Jakiw Palij, the last known Nazi who was living in the United States until his deportation to Germany last year. Clearly, this office and its dedicated professionals have proven successful, time and again, in their mission. President Ronald Reagan said: "Let us remember our heritage and, with it, our destiny – the destiny of this shining city on a hill, this beacon of freedom for all the peoples of the Earth." I fear your unnecessary shuttering of the IHRU has dimmed the lights on our shining city on a hill. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
02.28.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the New York Times reported that President Donald J. Trump ordered his chief of staff to grant his son-in-law Jared Kushner a top-secret security clearance. The story alleges that the President overruled concerns from intelligence officials and the White House’s General Counsel. “Now we know why Jared Kushner still has a security clearance: Trump allegedly ordered it despite the red flags raised by the CIA and FBI and White House lawyers. Career security clearance professionals believed Jared Kushner was enough of a national security risk that he should not get a top secret clearance. And now I have a message for our national security, defense and intelligence community: Do not share top secret information with Jared Kushner. Trust the career professionals. Do the right thing. Your loyalty is to America, not to Kushner or Trump." Rep. Lieu on Security Clearances: On January 29, 2019, Reps. Lieu, Cicilline, Sanchez, Eshoo and Gallego announced the introduction of the Restoring the Public Trust Act of 2019. The bill package incorporates a number of pieces of legislation aimed at strengthening ethical standards in the federal government to prevent government corruption and ensure accountability for the American public. Part of the legislation includes provisions that the White House must report to Congress when it grants a security clearance in contravention of an unfavorable clearance recommendation, in part to prevent dangerous and heavily indebted individuals from entering the most sensitive positions in government. On Feb. 14, 2018, Rep. Lieu, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Nadler and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Cummings introduced the “Commonsense Legislation Ensuring Accountability by Reporting Access of Non-Cleared Employees to Secrets (CLEARANCES)" Act that would require the White House to regularly report the status of security clearance holders working in the Executive Office of the President. Under existing law, the President can choose to keep employees on staff with interim security clearances indefinitely without notifying Congress. The CLEARANCES Act would serve to create more accountability and oversight of who has access to classified information. On Feb. 13, 2018, Reps. Lieu, Gallego, and Beyer wrote to FBI Director Christopher Wray requesting detailed information regarding the White House’s security clearance approval process. The letter follows reports that potentially dozens of senior Trump Administration officials who lack a permanent clearance may currently be accessing highly classified materials that they are not authorized to handle or possess. On Feb. 8, 2018, Rep. Lieu led a letter with Reps. Jayapal, Raskin and Lawrence asking White House Chief of Staff John Kelly to explain when he had knowledge of the allegations of domestic abuse by White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter and the actions he took given that knowledge. According to reports, Mr. Porter’s alleged abusive behavior was the reason he was unable to secure a permanent security clearance, yet apparently Mr. Kelly defended him, promoted him, and urged him to stay. On Oct. 5, 2017, Reps. Lieu and Beyer sent a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn calling on him to immediately revoke the security clearances of White House officials Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. The appeal comes after multiple reports demonstrating Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner’s brazen disregard for ethics and their apparent intention to skirt good governance rules. Reports showed their flagrant hypocrisy having used private emails to hide their correspondence from investigators. They also repeatedly missed deadlines for reporting financial assets to the Office of Government Ethics. Beyond that, Ms. Trump was reportedly close to being indicted for real estate fraud in 2012 but avoided prosecution thanks to a dubious meeting between Donald Trump’s lawyer and the New York District Attorney. This behavior makes them unfit to hold security clearances. On July 24, 2017, Rep. Lieu introduced two amendments to the Make America Safe Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2018. The first amendment prohibited anyone, who has resubmitted their SF-86 security clearance form more than twice to add previously undisclosed Russian contacts, from receiving salary, expenses - including for support staff and office space, or classified information. On June 1, 2017, Rep. Lieu co-led a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn calling for immediate revocation of Jared Kushner’s security clearance until the FBI concludes its investigation into Trump-Russia ties. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu was just one of four Democrats who signed onto a letter to OPM Director Charles Phalen and then FBI Director James Comey raising concerns regarding Jared Kushner’s failure to disclose his meetings with foreign officials. On April 13, 2017, Reps. Lieu, Beyer and group of House Democrats wrote to the FBI and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) requesting that they suspend White House Senior Advisor and President Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner’s security clearance, citing his admission that he “omitted” required details about meetings with foreign officials from an FBI questionnaire. ###
02.28.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after President Trump's summit with North Korea's Leader Kim Jong Un did not result in a peace agreement. “If reports are true regarding the North Korean demands, it was right for the President to walk away rather than strike a bad deal. We should want to see our nation succeed on the international stage, and we should never relish in the failure to reach a peace agreement. However, the outcome of this summit demonstrates why it should never have happened this way to begin with. Diplomacy is hard work. It requires dedicated resources, an empowered envoy, preparation and strategy—all of which the Trump Administration apparently didn’t have coming into this summit. Without laying the groundwork on an agreement, a second leader-level summit was a chance for a photo op and little else. But Kim gained long-desired legitimacy by meeting with the leader of the free world. Trump also inexplicably said he believed that Kim was not responsible for the torture and murder of American student Otto Warmbier. If we want to salvage this peace process, we have to let our diplomats take the lead. This requires empowering Special Representative for North Korea Stephen Biegun, and articulating clear objectives and strategy. We also need to coordinate closely with our allies in Seoul and Tokyo, as well as Beijing, North Korea’s benefactor. The House, now controlled by Democrats, will no longer give this Administration a pass on withholding critical information around these negotiations. Our national security relies on cogent diplomacy. It takes more than a photo op and flowery letters from North Korea to achieve a durable peace agreement.” ###
02.19.2019	WASHINGTON - On Friday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D-NY) sent a letter to NRA Chief Executive Officer Wayne LaPierre, asking about a 2015 trip that NRA associates took to Moscow, Russia in 2015. The trip has come under scrutiny because it further complicates ties between the NRA and Russia. In the letter, the Members write: Dear Mr. LaPierre: As former prosecutors and Members of Congress serving in the new House majority, we are alarmed about the reported relationships between the National Rifle Association (NRA) and Russian individuals, as well as reports that the Kremlin and the NRA may have coordinated to influence the outcome of the 2016 elections. Over the past few years, it has become clear that the NRA has had an unusually close relationship with the Trump Campaign. The organization donated far more to the Trump campaign than it did to previous Republican nominees and endorsed Donald Trump earlier than usual. In the same time, we have grown increasingly alarmed by the complex web of relationships between individuals associated with the NRA and highly influential Russian officials. As has been reported, in December 2015 former NRA presidents Pete Brownell and David Keene traveled to Moscow along with others associated with the organization to meet with Russian individuals including Maria Butina and Alexander Torshin. In May 2018, then-president of the NRA Pete Brownell, who participated in the 2015 Moscow trip, suddenly announced his retirement. In July 2018, Butina was arrested, and in December she pleaded guilty to conspiring to act as a foreign agent. We understand that William A. Brewer III, the NRA’s outside counsel, stated that you were opposed to the NRA’s involvement in the trip. Recent reporting, however, suggests that the NRA was in fact involved. For example, the emails reviewed by reporters suggest that the NRA covered the travel expenses of some delegates and that NRA employees worked with Butina and other Russian individuals to make travel arrangements. We are disturbed by the lack of transparency the NRA has demonstrated surrounding the December 2015 trip to Moscow. Furthermore, we are concerned that this extends to other allegations that have been made against the organization as it relates to Russia. We respectfully request a response to each of the following questions: What expenses did the NRA pay for the December 2015 trip to Moscow? Did the NRA discuss the December 2015 trip to Moscow with individuals associated with the Trump campaign in addition to Milwaukee Sheriff David Clarke? Did any NRA officials communicate with Torshin, Butina, or any other Russia-linked individuals about efforts to interfere in and influence the 2016 U.S. Presidential election? Did the NRA facilitate any meetings or communications between Trump campaign associates and Torshin or any other Russia-linked individuals? How much money did the NRA receive from Russia or Russia-linked individuals or entities during the 2016 election cycle? Did the NRA use any of that money in their 2016 election campaign contributions? Did any NRA officials discuss money laundering or the funneling of money from Russia to the NRA? Any efforts by a foreign country, especially an adversary like Russia, to influence our elections directly threaten our democracy. It is imperative that Congress has a full understanding of these efforts. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Rep. Ted W. Lieu Rep. Kathleen Rice
02.17.2019	LOS ANGELES – On Saturday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) hosted the Fourth Annual Multi-District Service Academy Day at the Los Angeles Air Force Base in El Segundo. Attendees heard speakers from the United States Air Force Academy, United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Service Academy Day offers prospective service academy students and their parents the opportunity to speak with representatives from service academies and ask questions about the admissions process. In attendance were staff members from the offices of Reps. Grace Napolitano, Karen Bass, Nanette Barragán, Alan Lowenthal, Raul Ruiz, and Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris. “It was a privilege and an honor to host the Fourth Annual Service Academy Day at the Los Angeles Air Force Base. It was inspiring to see how many young people were interested in attending a service academy. Attending any one of the prestigious service academies is a great avenue to serving the United States. It was my pleasure to help facilitate an event in which prospective students could learn more about the academies from current and former students, admissions officers, and parents alike.” ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after it was reported that the President will declare a national emergency in order to divert funding for a border wall. “Trump's proposed Declaration of a National Emergency is an authoritarian power grab that will be struck down in the courts. The Constitution gives the House of Representatives the ‘Power of the Purse’, and Trump cannot override the Constitution with a fake declaration. There is no national emergency. Based on the Trump Administration's own data, border apprehensions are down 75% from 2000 to 2018; both violent and property crime are down across the US; and 80% to 90% of illegal drugs come through legal checkpoints. “In addition, Trump appears to seek to redirect funds from helps disaster prone areas in California and military construction that helps military families. Hurting disaster victims and military families to build a medieval wall is not the dumbest idea ever, but it comes pretty close.” ###
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the passage of the House’s resolution to end U.S. support for the war in Yemen. "I’ve been gravely concerned about the catastrophe unfolding in Yemen since 2015, and have worked to stop U.S. military involvement in this bloody civil war. The Saudi-led coalition was dropping bombs on civilians and we were helping fuel those planes. Millions of people were becoming aid-dependent in what was turning into, and now is, the worst humanitarian crisis in the world. “The U.S., despite Democrats’ calls for answers and actions for change, continued to support the coalition’s efforts. Every step of the way, the Republican-controlled House obstructed debates on Yemen because it was uncomfortable to shame our partners and make tough choices about ending our support in order to protect civilians. After nearly four years of conflict, Congress finally took action on the House floor. I commend Congressman Ro Khanna for authoring this legislation. “I’m proud that we’ve passed this bill, which I coauthored, to send a clear message to the Administration that we must end all U.S. military support in Yemen.” Congressman Lieu’s previous work on Yemen: In January 2019, Rep. Lieu, Rep. Yoho and Rep. Malinowski introduced the Yemen Refueling Prohibition Act, which would stop the United States from providing the in-flight refueling of Saudi or Saudi-led coalition aircraft conducting missions in Yemen. The legislation comes after years of failures by both the Obama and Trump Administrations to mitigate the U.S.’s role in civilian casualties from coalition-led airstrikes. In November 2018, Rep. Lieu issued a statement of support for the Senate's efforts to advance a bipartisan resolution to revoke U.S. support for the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen. In August 2018, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to the Department of Defense Inspector General calling for an investigation into whether U.S. personnel supporting Saudi and Emeriti coalition operations in Yemen are violating DoD regulations, the Law of Armed Conflict, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, federal statutes or international law. The letter comes after a Saudi-led airstrike hit a school bus in Yemen last week. Rep. Lieu has long called for more scrutiny into the coalition’s actions in Yemen, questioning the U.S.’s efforts to ensure Saudi and Emeriti forces are actively mitigating civilian casualties and avoiding worsening the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In July 2018, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) sent a letter to Senate and House Armed Services Committee leaders to express support for a National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) provision that would establish certification requirements for U.S. assistance to Gulf partners operating in Yemen. In December 2017, President Donald J. Trump signed the 2018 NDAA, which included two provisions on Yemen that Rep. Lieu authored, into law. Congressman Lieu authored provisions that will bring critical congressional oversight to the conflict in Yemen for the first time. Sec. 1265 requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. Sec. 1275 requires the President to submit a detailed report that contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. In July 2017, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Lieu’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 that requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen to avoid civilian casualties. In May 2017, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) called on House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce to review the proposed sale of precision-guided munitions to Saudi Arabia. Congressman Lieu also introduced legislation to place conditions on all air-to-ground munitions sales to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The three conditions relate to avoiding civilian casualties, facilitating humanitarian aid, and targeting U.S.-designated terrorist organizations such as AQAP and ISIS. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu led a letter with a bipartisan group of 30 Members of Congress to Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson requesting information related to the operational conduct of the Royal Saudi Air Force in Yemen. In November 2016, Congressman Lieu led the Lantos Human Rights Commission in holding a hearing on the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In August 2016, Congressman Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The letter raised concerns regarding the Saudi-led Coalition’s killing of civilians. Previously, Congressman Lieu had repeatedly raised similar concerns, sending letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter. He also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia. In April 2016, Congressman Lieu introduced a joint resolution in the House (H.J. RES 90) to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia. September 2015, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to General Joseph F. Dunford, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, requesting further information about civilian deaths as a result of Saudi Arabian led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. In the letter, Congressman Lieu requested that the United States cease aiding coalition airstrikes in Yemen until the coalition demonstrates that they will institute proper safeguards to prevent civilian deaths. In August 2015, Congressman Lieu called for the U.S. to halt its participation in coalition airstrikes in Yemen. ###
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY) were joined by nine Members of Congress in demanding the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) suspend dog testing given its costs, animal welfare concerns, opposition from veterans and available alternatives. “Repeatedly, we’ve seen that experiments on dogs are often unnecessary, wasteful and cruel," Rep. Lieu said. "The VA should make every effort to help and support our veterans, and using ineffective animal testing is both painful for dogs and a waste of valuable resources. In fact, the VA in my district in Los Angeles discontinued dog testing that required breeding dogs to suffer from narcolepsy. I hope that the VA will give the same consideration to inhumane testing practices elsewhere. At a minimum, the VA should suspend dog testing while this study on its effectiveness is under way.” "This research is cruel, unnecessary and inefficient. Though in theory the studies are supposed to help people who have endured serious combat injuries, VA experts have noted that even the most promising animal research rarely applies to people,” Rep. Zeldin said. “Despite widespread disapproval from Congress and veterans organizations, the VA has continued these horrific experiments. It is clear that even the VA has legitimate concerns regarding its own dog testing program. The VA must suspend these experiments until their independent evaluation is complete.” A signed pdf of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Dear Secretary Wilkie, We were troubled to read your recent statements in support of the Veterans Affairs (VA)’s controversial dog testing program given its costs, animal welfare concerns, opposition from veterans, and opposition from veterans. Clearly, the VA agrees that there are legitimate concerns being raised, so much so that it has commissioned a $1.3 million study of the program by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. The evaluation, “Assessment of the Care and Use of Dogs in Research Funded by or Conducted at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs,” is scheduled to produce two reports and be completed “in mid-2020.” While the VA awaits the results of this independent evaluation of the necessity of the agency’s dog testing, we request that the VA suspend all ongoing dog testing and postpone the review and approval of any new projects until the results of the National Academies study are published. As you are aware, the VA has already canceled several invasive dog studies that it initially approved after a secondary review revealed the availability of alternatives or that the work was otherwise unnecessary. We believe that the National Academies will find this to be the case for other current VA dog experiments as well. In the meantime, it would be inappropriate to use taxpayers’ money, dogs, and other VA resources for research that may ultimately be deemed wasteful and scientifically unjustifiable. ###
02.11.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on Rep. Ilhan Omar's apology, following statements she made about Israel. “As Members of Congress, we have a duty to call out harmful rhetoric when we see it. Rep. Ilhan Omar’s tweets yesterday were offensive. Rep Omar’s words perpetuated a deeply hurtful stereotype about Jews and money. At a time when we’re seeing a national and global resurgence of anti-Semitism, it’s even more critical that we remain steadfast in condemning any and all animus towards Jewish people. I’m glad Rep. Omar has apologized for her statements. I have long supported the United States’ strong, bipartisan relationship with Israel. I became pro-Israel when I served on active duty in our military. It became crystal clear to me that protecting Israel is vital to U.S national security. I believe that healthy debates about U.S. foreign policy can both strengthen our policies and broaden support, but those debates must be rooted in respect and understanding.” ###
02.08.2019	WASHINGTON - Today Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on Sens. Shaheen and Young’s letter to the Secretary of State, calling for "a certification that better reflects the facts on the ground" in Yemen. “I have long said we need clearer information regarding the Saudi coalition's operational conduct in Yemen and I’m grateful that Sens. Shaheen and Young have maintained pressure on the Administration to follow the law and deliver the required information to the American people. In 2018, I offered an amendment that would’ve required similar certifications for refueling and strongly supported the inclusion of this certification provision in the Fiscal Year 2019 NDAA. I believe we can’t allow the coalition to violate humanitarian law while receiving U.S. support. The Administration’s initial certification in September 2018 contradicted facts on the ground in Yemen and undermined efforts to hold the coalition accountable for what appeared to be war crimes. In completing its second certification, I hope the Administration chooses to be transparent with the American people and hold our partners to the standard we should all expect.” Congressman Lieu’s previous work on Yemen: In January 2019, Rep. Lieu, Rep. Yoho and Rep. Malinowski introduced the Yemen Refueling Prohibition Act, which would stop the United States from providing the in-flight refueling of Saudi or Saudi-led coalition aircraft conducting missions in Yemen. The legislation comes after years of failures by both the Obama and Trump Administrations to mitigate the U.S.’s role in civilian casualties from coalition-led airstrikes. In November 2018, Rep. Lieu issued a statement of support for the Senate's efforts to advance a bipartisan resolution to revoke U.S. support for the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen. In August 2018, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to the Department of Defense Inspector General calling for an investigation into whether U.S. personnel supporting Saudi and Emeriti coalition operations in Yemen are violating DoD regulations, the Law of Armed Conflict, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, federal statutes or international law. The letter comes after a Saudi-led airstrike hit a school bus in Yemen last week. Rep. Lieu has long called for more scrutiny into the coalition’s actions in Yemen, questioning the U.S.’s efforts to ensure Saudi and Emeriti forces are actively mitigating civilian casualties and avoiding worsening the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In July 2018, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) sent a letter to Senate and House Armed Services Committee leaders to express support for a National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) provision that would establish certification requirements for U.S. assistance to Gulf partners operating in Yemen. In December 2017, President Donald J. Trump signed the 2018 NDAA, which included two provisions on Yemen that Rep. Lieu authored, into law. Congressman Lieu authored provisions that will bring critical congressional oversight to the conflict in Yemen for the first time. Sec. 1265 requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. Sec. 1275 requires the President to submit a detailed report that contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. In July 2017, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Lieu’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 that requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen to avoid civilian casualties. In May 2017, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) called on House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce to review the proposed sale of precision-guided munitions to Saudi Arabia. Congressman Lieu also introduced legislation to place conditions on all air-to-ground munitions sales to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The three conditions relate to avoiding civilian casualties, facilitating humanitarian aid, and targeting U.S.-designated terrorist organizations such as AQAP and ISIS. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu led a letter with a bipartisan group of 30 Members of Congress to Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson requesting information related to the operational conduct of the Royal Saudi Air Force in Yemen. In November 2016, Congressman Lieu led the Lantos Human Rights Commission in holding a hearing on the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In August 2016, Congressman Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The letter raised concerns regarding the Saudi-led Coalition’s killing of civilians. Previously, Congressman Lieu had repeatedly raised similar concerns, sending letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter. He also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia. In April 2016, Congressman Lieu introduced a joint resolution in the House (H.J. RES 90) to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia. September 2015, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to General Joseph F. Dunford, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, requesting further information about civilian deaths as a result of Saudi Arabian led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. In the letter, Congressman Lieu requested that the United States cease aiding coalition airstrikes in Yemen until the coalition demonstrates that they will institute proper safeguards to prevent civilian deaths. In August 2015, Congressman Lieu called for the U.S. to halt its participation in coalition airstrikes in Yemen. ###
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), Senator Ed Markey (D-MA), House Armed Services Chairman Adam Smith (D-WA), Congressman John Garamendi (D-CA), Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) announced the reintroduction of the bicameral Hold the LYNE (Low-Yield Nuclear Explosive)Act. The legislation would prohibit the research, development, production and deployment of a low-yield nuclear warheads for submarine-launched ballistic missiles. So-called low-yield nuclear weapons have the potential to lower the threshold for using nuclear weapons and increase the risk of entering the U.S. into nuclear war. This bill has 22 original co-sponsors in the House. Upon introduction, the Members said: “Developing a new ‘low-yield’ nuclear warhead is a fiscal boondoggle and a political mistake. There is no military requirement for this weapon, and its potential use risks a grave miscalculation. Its development is yet another example of how the Trump administration is abdicating American leadership in stopping the spread of nuclear weapons around the world. A nuclear weapon is a nuclear weapon, and the Trump administration’s attempt to market a new one is ill-advised and dangerous. We simply cannot lower the threshold for using a nuclear weapon. No one wins a nuclear war.” Original House co-sponsors: Rep. Ted Lieu, Rep. Adam Smith, Rep. John Garamendi, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, Rep. Barbara Lee, Rep. Jan Schakowsky, Rep. Peter A. DeFazio, Rep. Betty McCollum, Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr., Rep. Donald S. Beyer Jr., Rep. James P. McGovern, Rep. Diana DeGette, Rep. Bobby L. Rush, Rep. Suzanne Bonamici, Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Rep. Chellie Pingree, Rep. Mark Pocan , Rep. Jackie Speier, Rep. Alan Lowenthal, Rep. Ilhan Omar, Rep. Gilbert R. Cisneros Jr. and Rep. Raul Grijalva Original Senate co-sponsors: Sen. Jeff Merkley, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, Sen. Kristen Gillibrand, Sen. Chris Van Hollen, Sen. Chris Murphy, and Sen. Bernie Sanders. The LYNE Act is also supported by: Arms Control Association, Global Zero, Union of Concerned Scientists, Ploughshares, Win Without War, Peace Action, Council for a Livable World, Friends Committee on National Legislation, Beyond the Bomb, Tri-Valley CAREs, Physicians for Social Responsibility-Los Angeles, Physicians for Social Responsibility, Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility, Women’s Action for New Directions, Lawyers Committee for Nuclear Policy, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, Beyond Nuclear, Rocky Flats Right to Know, The Peace Farm, Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom (Middle East and Disarmament Committees), Nuclear Watch South, Our Developing World, Southwest Research and Information Center, Concerned Citizens for Nuclear Safety, Federation of American Scientists, Chesapeake Physicians for Social Responsibility (PSR),Nuclear Watch New Mexico, Alliance for Nuclear Accountability (ANA) and Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. -- In January 2019, Rep. Lieu and Sen. Markey re-introduced H.R. 669 and S. 200, the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act. First introduced in the 114th Congress, this legislation would prohibit the President from launching a nuclear first strike without a declaration of war by Congress. ###
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement congratulating Elan Carr on his appointment as the United States Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism. “I want to congratulate my friend Elan Carr on his appointment as the United States Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism. Elan’s track record serving his country is inspiring: he fought in the Iraq War, is a JAG officer in the Army Reserve, and was serving as a Deputy District Attorney in Los Angeles County prior to this appointment. Elan has long been a champion for the Jewish community in Los Angeles and beyond and I have no doubt that he will excel in this role. At a time when anti-Semitic incidents have been on the rise, I look forward to working with Elan to stamp out hatred around the globe.” ###
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced it would suspend the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty with Russia. The treaty, which was ratified in 1987, places limits on intermediate-range nuclear missile development by Russia and the U.S. Earlier this week, Congressman Lieu and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) announced the reintroduction of the “Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2019”, which prevents the president from launching a nuclear first strike without congressional approval. "NO ONE WINS A NUCLEAR WAR." ###
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Don Beyer (D-VA) wrote to White House Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney seeking the immediate revocation of Senior White House Adviser Jared Kushner’s security clearance. The letter followed an NBC report that career White House security professionals initially rejected Kushner’s clearance application before being overruled by a “quasi-political supervisor.” In the letter, the Members wrote: “We urge you to immediately revoke the security clearance of Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner, and to comply with past and future oversight requests from Congress related to security clearances, information security, and other matters of national security. “On January 24, 2019, a report from NBC revealed that ‘Jared Kushner's application for a top-secret clearance was rejected by two career White House security specialists after an FBI background check raised concerns about potential foreign influence on him — but their supervisor overruled the recommendation and approved the clearance.’ That story goes on to note that ‘Kushner's FBI background check identified questions about his family's business, his foreign contacts, his foreign travel and meetings he had during the campaign.’ This is the very issue we warned about in April 2017, before the events described in this report transpired. “The White House’s pattern of hiding the truth and devious behavior with regard to Mr. Kushner’s security clearance suggests that the Administration does not take information security seriously. This problem is underscored by NBC’s reporting that ‘Kushner's was one of at least 30 cases in which Kline overruled career security experts and approved a top-secret clearance for incoming Trump officials despite unfavorable information.’ “Members of Congress are now placed in the impossible position of wondering who these 30 officials are that received clearances despite being rejected by the career security officials, what the ‘unfavorable information’ was in their records, and why they still have ongoing access to sensitive national security information. “In July 2017, we also asked a series of questions regarding the status of White House Senior Advisor Ivanka Trump’s security clearance. These questions, too, remain unanswered by the Trump Administration, even as new reports suggest that Special Counsel Robert Mueller is asking witnesses about Ivanka Trump’s involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project. “The President of the United States has a responsibility to the people who put him in office that should outweigh his personal business and familial interests. The ongoing refusal of the Administration to abide by longstanding security clearance processes, coupled with its unwillingness to explain its actions to Members of Congress, increasingly seems like a coverup.” Beyer and Lieu cited their previous letters raising numerous concerns with Kushner’s SF-86, and with the status of Kushner’s fellow Senior White House Adviser Ivanka Trump. The NBC report noted that there as many as 30 other cases in which career security officials recommended a clearance be denied to an incoming Trump appointee before being overruled by their supervisor. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE -- January 31, 2019 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Acting White House Chief of Staff The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. Mulvaney: We urge you to immediately revoke the security clearance of Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner, and to comply with past and future oversight requests from Congress related to security clearances, information security, and other matters of national security. We have held serious concerns about the implications of granting Jared Kushner a security clearance since the President took office, given Mr. Kushner’s track record of “omitting” meetings, relationships, and business interests that tie him to foreign officials from his SF-86 clearance application. [1] We raised these concerns in five separate letters to the Trump Administration dated April 13, 2017; [2] June 1, 2017; [3] October 5, 2017;[4] March 14, 2018;[5] and June 5, 2018.[6] The White House has yet to address any of these issues, and new reporting suggests that there has been an intentional, concerted effort within the Executive Office of the President to cover for Jared Kushner in the face of similar objections raised by the career professionals who evaluate appointees’ suitability for security clearances. On January 24, 2019, a report from NBC revealed that “Jared Kushner's application for a top-secret clearance was rejected by two career White House security specialists after an FBI background check raised concerns about potential foreign influence on him — but their supervisor overruled the recommendation and approved the clearance.”[7] That story goes on to note that “Kushner's FBI background check identified questions about his family's business, his foreign contacts, his foreign travel and meetings he had during the campaign.” This is the very issue we warned about in April 2017, before the events described in this report transpired. The White House’s pattern of hiding the truth and devious behavior with regard to Mr. Kushner’s security clearance suggests that the Administration does not take information security seriously. This problem is underscored by NBC’s reporting that “Kushner's was one of at least 30 cases in which Kline overruled career security experts and approved a top-secret clearance for incoming Trump officials despite unfavorable information.” Members of Congress are now placed in the impossible position of wondering who these 30 officials are that received clearances despite being rejected by the career security officials, what the “unfavorable information” was in their records, and why they still have ongoing access to sensitive national security information. We have been given no relevant information from the White House, despite our repeated requests enumerated above, despite the unanimous passage of the SECRET Act in Congress—which required the White House to send us a report explaining its process for evaluating security clearances by August of last year[8] —and despite repeated public debacles like the Rob Porter scandal. In July 2017, we also asked a series of questions regarding the status of White House Senior Advisor Ivanka Trump’s security clearance. [9] These questions, too, remain unanswered by the Trump Administration, even as new reports suggest that Special Counsel Robert Mueller is asking witnesses about Ivanka Trump’s involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project.[10] The President of the United States has a responsibility to the people who put him in office that should outweigh his personal business and familial interests. The ongoing refusal of the Administration to abide by longstanding security clearance processes, coupled with its unwillingness to explain its actions to Members of Congress, increasingly seems like a coverup. We request swift action to address these concerns. Thank you for your attention in this matter. Sincerely, ______________________________ ______________________________ Donald S. Beyer Jr. Ted W. Lieu ### [1] Ellen Nakashima et. al., “Russian Ambassador Told Moscow That Kushner Wanted Secret Communications Channel With Kremlin,” Washington Post, May 26, 2017 https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-ambassador-told-moscow-that-kushner-wanted-secret-communications-channel-with-kremlin/2017/05/26/520a14b4-422d-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_story.html [2] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to FBI Director James Comey, April 13, 2017 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/kushner_letter.pdf [3] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to Counsel to the President Don McGahn, June 1, 2017 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/beyer_letter_to_white_house_re_kushner_clearance_6.1.17.pdf [4] Reps. Lieu and Beyer, Letter to Counsel to the President Don McGahn, October 5, 2017 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/lieu_beyer_ivanka_letter.pdf [5] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, March 14, 2018 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/signed_fire_kushner_letter_3.14.18.pdf [6] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, June 5, 2018 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/letter_to_wh_re_kushner_and_ivanka_security_clearances__060518.pdf [7] Laura Strickler, Ken Dilanian, and Peter Alexander, “Officials rejected Jared Kushner for top secret security clearance, but were overruled,” NBC News, January 24, 2019 https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/officials-rejected-jared-kushner-top-secret-security-clearance-were-overruled-n962221 [8] Public Law 115-173 https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/3210/text [9] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe, July 19, 2017 https://beyer.house.gov/UploadedFiles/Letter_to_FBI_re_Ivanka_SF86.pdf [10] Hunter Walker, “Mueller eyes Ivanka and Don Jr.’s work on Trump Tower Moscow,” Yahoo News, November 29, 2018 https://www.yahoo.com/news/mueller-eyes-ivanka-don-jr-s-work-trump-tower-moscow-003012099.html ###
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON – This week, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) introduced the “Protecting Families from Government Shutdowns Act of 2019” with Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ). In light of the threats of another shutdown from the Trump Administration, this bill would protect Americans from some of the harmful impacts of government shutdowns. It would make it unlawful for any entity to enforce penalties in a contract that is violated because of one’s inability to meet obligations due to a government shutdown. It also directs government agencies to develop guidance on halting agency penalties and communicating such information to the public. Upon introduction, the Members said: “Government shutdowns hurt everyone. Even though Trump’s 35-day shutdown is over, there are thousands of Americans who now have to deal with the financial fallout. This doesn’t just include federal workers and their families—it includes small business owners and local economies that rely on government services that couldn’t meet the public’s needs during the shutdown. With this bill, we’re ensuring that communities and individuals are not punished because of the whims of Washington, and that shutdowns won’t create an untenable financial burden for innocent members of the public.” More on the bill: Actions prohibited during a shutdown: It is unlawful for an entity to do any of the following with respect to a person if that person is unable to meet an obligation because of a government shutdown: Debt collection Foreclosure Eviction Acceleration or downgrading of credit Require any other obligation mandated by law or contract to be met that relies on a government service not available during a shutdown. ###
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), Congressman Ted Yoho (R-FL) and Congressman Tom Malinowski (D-NJ) introduced the Yemen Refueling Prohibition Act, which would stop the United States from providing the in-flight refueling of Saudi or Saudi-led coalition aircraft conducting missions in Yemen. The legislation comes after years of failures by both the Obama and Trump Administrations to mitigate the U.S.’s role in civilian casualties from coalition-led airstrikes. Upon introduction, Mr. Lieu said: “For over three years, the United States regularly refueled Saudi and Emirati aircraft as they dropped bombs in Yemen, repeatedly hitting civilian targets and deepening the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. We have a legal, moral and strategic responsibility to ensure our servicemembers are not aiding and abetting war crimes. The Administration allegedly took long-overdue action to end our refueling support in November, but this decision is easily reversible without any notification to Congress. With the bipartisan Yemen Refueling Prohibition Act, we hope to make this cut-off permanent and send a clear signal that U.S. support is not a blank check.” Upon introduction, Mr. Yoho said: “The war in Yemen has ravaged that country for four years. I support the Yemen Refueling Prohibition Act wholeheartedly. This bill will change the dynamic of that war to help minimize civilian casualties and help facilitate an end to the conflict in Yemen.” Upon introduction, Mr. Malinowski said: “Nothing makes the United Sates more complicit in Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen than our mid air refueling of aircraft on their way to bombing runs. This bill makes clear that if Saudi Arabia will not listen to American advice it will not receive direct American assistance.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL HERE Congressman Lieu’s previous work on Yemen: In November 2018, Rep. Lieu issued a statement of support for the Senate's efforts to advance a bipartisan resolution to revoke U.S. support for the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen. In August 2018, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to the Department of Defense Inspector General calling for an investigation into whether U.S. personnel supporting Saudi and Emeriti coalition operations in Yemen are violating DoD regulations, the Law of Armed Conflict, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, federal statutes or international law. The letter comes after a Saudi-led airstrike hit a school bus in Yemen last week. Rep. Lieu has long called for more scrutiny into the coalition’s actions in Yemen, questioning the U.S.’s efforts to ensure Saudi and Emeriti forces are actively mitigating civilian casualties and avoiding worsening the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In July 2018, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) sent a letter to Senate and House Armed Services Committee leaders to express support for a National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) provision that would establish certification requirements for U.S. assistance to Gulf partners operating in Yemen. In December 2017, President Donald J. Trump signed the 2018 NDAA, which included two provisions on Yemen that Rep. Lieu authored, into law. Congressman Lieu authored provisions that will bring critical congressional oversight to the conflict in Yemen for the first time. Sec. 1265 requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. Sec. 1275 requires the President to submit a detailed report that contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. In July 2017, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Lieu’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 that requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen to avoid civilian casualties. In May 2017, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) called on House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce to review the proposed sale of precision-guided munitions to Saudi Arabia. Congressman Lieu also introduced legislation to place conditions on all air-to-ground munitions sales to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The three conditions relate to avoiding civilian casualties, facilitating humanitarian aid, and targeting U.S.-designated terrorist organizations such as AQAP and ISIS. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu led a letter with a bipartisan group of 30 Members of Congress to Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson requesting information related to the operational conduct of the Royal Saudi Air Force in Yemen. In November 2016, Congressman Lieu led the Lantos Human Rights Commission in holding a hearing on the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In August 2016, Congressman Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The letter raised concerns regarding the Saudi-led Coalition’s killing of civilians. Previously, Congressman Lieu had repeatedly raised similar concerns, sending letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter. He also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia. In April 2016, Congressman Lieu introduced a joint resolution in the House (H.J. RES 90) to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia. September 2015, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to General Joseph F. Dunford, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, requesting further information about civilian deaths as a result of Saudi Arabian led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. In the letter, Congressman Lieu requested that the United States cease aiding coalition airstrikes in Yemen until the coalition demonstrates that they will institute proper safeguards to prevent civilian deaths. In August 2015, Congressman Lieu called for the U.S. to halt its participation in coalition airstrikes in Yemen. ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Senator Ed Markey (D-Mass.) announced the reintroduction of legislation to prevent the president from launching a nuclear first strike without congressional approval. Rep. Lieu and Sen. Markey announced the reintroduction of the “Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2019” (H.R.669/S.200) at a press conference today alongside nuclear arms control leaders, who urged Congress to take action to prevent nuclear war. “Trump’s brand is to be unpredictable and rash, which is exactly what you don’t want the person who possesses the nuclear football to be,” Rep. Lieu said. “We introduced this bill under the Obama Administration but Trump’s Presidency has highlighted just how scary it is that any president has the authority to launch a nuke without Congressional consultation. I believed in 2016 what I still believe now: launching a weapon that has the power to instantly kill millions of people is an obvious act of war. Regardless of who sits in the Oval Office, Congress has the constitutional duty to decide when a nuclear first strike is warranted. As we’re now coming to realize, we could be one tweet that insults the president away from catastrophe.” “No American President, and certainly not Donald Trump, should have the power to launch a first use nuclear first strike absent such an attack without explicit Congressional approval,” Sen. Markey said. “It would be immoral, it would be disproportionate, and it could only be considered an act of war – something our morals and our Constitution make clear no single person should be able to do alone. I thank Rep. Lieu for his continued partnership on the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act, and we will continue to work with our colleagues to get this critical legislation passed.” Support for the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2019: Ploughshares Fund Director of Policy Tom Collina: "The risk of having nuclear weapons ready to launch within minutes, on the president’s sole authority, outweighs any perceived benefits. This system is unsafe, undemocratic and unnecessary. It must be fixed. Thank you Senator Markey and Congressman Lieu for your leadership. We need Congress to act now more than ever." Union of Concerned Scientists Washington Representative Stephen Young: “Giving the president the sole authority to start a nuclear war – using one or even hundreds of nuclear weapons first -- is quite literally the most dangerous policy possible. The explicit goal of that policy is to make global annihilation feasible in less than an hour. I wish I were exaggerating. I am not. While the policy is intended to serve as a deterrent, the reality is it leads to the current situation, where a fit of temper by the president could end the world. It is time to change that policy. The bill we are discussing here today would do just that.” Arms Control Association Executive Director Daryl G. Kimball: "The legislation introduced by Sen. Markey and Congressman Lieu has kicked off a long-overdue conversation about outdated Cold War-era nuclear use policies that give the president sole authority to initiate a nuclear conflict. Not only is this policy undemocratic and dangerous, it is unnecessary. Especially given the overwhelming conventional military edge of the United States and its allies, there is no plausible circumstance that could justify—legally, morally, or militarily—the use of nuclear weapons to deal with a non-nuclear threat." Peace Action (formerly SANE/Freeze) Senior Director of Policy and Political Affairs Paul Kawika Martin: "Our nation’s nuclear command and control structure is a massive security liability. No rational human being would ever say, ‘let’s take the most destructive force known to humanity and give one person the authority to unleash it on the world at a moment’s notice,’ but unfortunately that is the current U.S. policy. Thankfully, Senator Ed Markey and Representative Ted Lieu have authored common-sense legislation to prevent this president, and future presidents, from launching a nuclear first strike without congressional approval.” Program Manager of Women Legislators Lobby (WiLL) at WAND Samantha Blake: “In 2018, 10 resolutions were introduced across the nation by women state legislators calling on their members of Congress to constrain the President’s nuclear authority. Women have been stepping up on behalf of humanity since the first arms race-- and we will be there until no one has to live under the constant fear of nuclear annihilation. As a young person, I know this threat isn’t one from our history books. It’s too easy for our generation to write it off as a thing of the past, but it’s more real than it has been in decades; that’s why WAND supports this legislation and is grateful for Senator Markey and Representative Lieu for introducing.” Win Without War Advocacy Director Erica Fein: "According to a new poll, nearly half of all Americans report they have no confidence 'at all' in Donald Trump; yet, because of our deeply flawed and dangerous system, if the president decides to launch a nuclear weapon, no one can stop him. It is high time for Congress to add a check on this or any future president’s ability to start a nuclear war." VoteVets Director of Government Relations Will Fischer: “As the law is currently written, the president of the United States has carte blanche authority to launch nuclear weapons as a first strike. No single person should possess such power, especially not someone as capricious as Donald Trump.” Beyond the Bomb Director Cecili Thompson Williams: “Donald Trump is a walking, talking case for dismantling a system that relies so completely on the judgment, temperament and emotional state of one person. It is profoundly undemocratic and dangerous. This president has taken us closer to the brink of nuclear war than we have been in generations, and it’s time for Congress to urgently intervene. The Markey-Lieu bill, which would force Trump to seek a Congressional declaration of war before launching a nuclear first strike - is an important step toward reigning in the President’s ability to start a war that could end life on this planet as we know it - and buy our country some time to pursue other critical reforms that overturn the unjust, undemocratic U.S. nuclear system. It’s time to start walking back from the brink, and the Markey-Lieu bill does just that.” Federation of American Scientists Director of Nuclear information Project and Associate Senior Fellow to SIPRI Hans M. Kristensen: "No single person should have the ability to launch a nuclear first strike. The Federation of American Scientists supports the effort to limit the ability of President Donald Trump or any U.S. president to launch a nuclear first strike without a declaration of war by Congress." ### ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu, Congressman David Cicilline, Congresswoman Linda Sanchez, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo and Congressman Ruben Gallego announced they are introducing the Restoring the Public Trust Act of 2019. The bill package incorporates a number of pieces of legislation aimed at strengthening ethical standards in the federal government to prevent government corruption and ensure accountability for the American public. Upon introduction, the Members said: “Trump and his administration have made a mockery of government ethics, demonstrating the weak spots in our current laws. He has normalized unethical behavior in a way that was once unthinkable, proving that we need stronger ethics laws. The damage that Trump has done to the public’s confidence in its government won’t be easy to fix but this bill ensures that those gaping holes in our anticorruption and ethics laws are addressed. In doing so, we will course correct our government to ensure it is working for the people, which is a key Democratic priority this Congress. The Restoring the Public Trust Act helps us do the critical work of rebuilding the public’s faith in government.” The Restoring the Public Trust Act is endorsed By: American Oversight; Campaign for Accountability, Common Cause and Public Citizen. The bill will include the following provisions: TITLE I: Draining the Swamp The SWAMP Act: The President must reimburse the Treasury Department for taxpayer dollars spent at properties in which he has a financial stake, like Mar-a-Lago. The SWAMP FLYERS Act: Prohibits the use of federal funds for the official travel of a senior political appointee on a non-commercial, private, or chartered flight unless they certify – under penalty of perjury – that no alternative flight was available. The E. Scott Pruitt Accountability for Government Officials Act: Creates a federal criminal penalty for use of public office for private gain, endorsement of products, or aiding family and friends for corrupt purposes. CORRUPT Act: The head of each agency must submit to the Office of Government Ethics a report on the amount expended by that agency to any property owned by the President or his family. RIGGED Act: Makes the federal nepotism laws applicable to the Executive Office of the President. DRAIN the Swamp Act: The head of each agency must submit to the Comptroller General an assessment of any regulatory conflict of interest pertaining to the President and various senior advisors that might arise from an agency’s rule. TITLE II: Rooting Out Conflicts of Interest CLEARANCES Act (COMMONSENSE LEGISLATION ENSURING ACCOUNTABILITY BY REPORTING ACCESS OF NON-CLEARED EMPLOYEES TO SECRETS): The White House must report to Congress when it grants a security clearance in contravention of an unfavorable clearance recommendation, in part to prevent dangerous and heavily indebted individuals from entering the most sensitive positions in government. Blind Trusts: Requires members of the President’s Cabinet and certain senior White House advisors to place stocks, bonds, commodities futures, other forms of securities in a blind trust during their tenure. Preventing domestic emoluments: Prohibits any business interest owned in whole or in part by the President or Vice President, his/her spouse, or immediate family member from doing business with the federal government. Presidential Tax Transparency Act: Requires all candidates for President to release their tax returns for the past three years. No more shadow White House meetings: Require the White House to maintain a publicly accessible website that includes data on visitor logs. TITLE III: Strengthening Our Inspectors General Protecting our inspectors general: Requires notification to Congress of a president’s decision to place an agency inspector general – whose job is to root out waste, fraud, and corruption – on leave or to change their status in any way. Filling empty inspector general positions: Requires the President report to Congress if he or she fails to nominate an Inspector General for a given agency, including a target date for making a formal recommendation. ###
01.26.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) delivered the Weekly Democratic Address. In this week’s address, the Congressman discussed the escalating safety and economic threat caused by President Trump’s senseless government shutdown, and Democrats’ continued actions to re-open government. Video and audio of the Weekly Democratic Address can be downloaded here. Below is a full transcript of the address: “Hello, I’m Ted Lieu and I represent western Los Angeles County in the United States Congress. I previously served on active duty in our military because I believe America is an exceptional country, the most amazing nation in the world. “But right now, the federal government under Donald Trump is partially shut down. No civilized nation on earth shuts down its own government. “I’m going explain how we got here, how the shutdown affects you, and how we re-open government. “It’s pretty simple how we got here. In fact, it’s all captured on videotape. Last month, Trump told the American people, quote, ‘I will take the mantle. I will be the one to shut it down.’ End quote. “No President of the United States should ever be proud of shutting down our government. But Trump carried out his threat to shut down government. And he was enabled by Republicans in the House and the Senate. “This shutdown started during a time of unified Republican control of the federal government: the White House, the Senate, and the House. Democrats inherited this shutdown from Republicans. “And the effects of the Trump Shutdown are severe, harmful, and dangerous. There are some government jobs where we want full staffing and do not want the employee to be tired, stressed out and desperate because one mistake can be fatal. “Air Traffic Controllers, who help keep the flying public safe, are not getting paid and are under increasing pressure to work multiple jobs. Or, they’ve simply to quit to get another job in order to make ends meet. “The National Air Traffic Controllers Association issued a dire warning, saying that they cannot even calculate the level of risk currently at play, nor predict the point at which their entire system will break. “As a result of the Trump Shutdown, there have been fewer food inspections, fewer inspections of planes, and the inability of the Consumer Products Commission to respond to unsafe product warnings. “The shutdown has particularly impacted the Department of Homeland Security, which is charged with keeping Americans safe. “Our Border Patrols agents, TSA personnel, and Coast Guard members are all working without pay. Some have had to use food banks to feed their family; some are working multiple jobs to make ends meet; and some will need to quit because they cannot sustain working without a paycheck. “The financial crunch doesn’t just impact federal workers. It impacts the landlords that can’t collect rent from furloughed renters; the small business owners who can’t get their permits from federal agencies; and the individuals who can’t get in touch with the IRS to work out payment plans. “The shutdown is also hurting our economy. Nearly 400 trade associations and chambers of commerce have said the shutdown is causing significant damage to families, businesses and the economy. Recently, the White House’s top economic advisor admitted that the US economy may show zero economic growth this quarter. “Now, how do we stop Trump and the Republicans from continuing to inflict harm on the American people? The Democratic position has been straightforward, consistent, and reasonable: Re-open government. Negotiate a deal. “Democrats will never allow Trump and the Republicans to use the harm of a government shutdown as a negotiating tactic. Because if we do, then Trump will do this any time he has a policy disagreement with Congress. “The position taken by Trump is, in fact, quite perverse. He is saying that his concession is to re-open government. No American President should ever be taking the federal government hostage to extract demands. “Democrats are working hard to re-open government. “The House of Representatives has voted 11 times to re-open our government. “The Republican-controlled Senate unfortunately has refused to pass any House legislation to re-open government. By failing to pass those measures, Senate Republicans are abdicating their duty as part of a co-equal branch of government. “I am also disappointed that Trump and Republicans continue to lie about basic facts. The truth is, there is no crisis at the border that justifies a government shutdown. “According to the latest data from the FBI, violent crime is down. Property crime is also down. “According to the Department of Homeland Security, border crossings are at an approximate 20-year low. “Study after study also shows that immigrants, both documented and undocumented, commit less crime than native-born Americans. “The truth is, the shutdown is not about protecting our border, it’s about Trump’s failed campaign promise. He promised Mexico will pay for his wall. He has been unable to get Mexico to pay for his wall, so he decided to take the mantle and proudly shut down our government. That is wrong, and the American people know it. “Poll after poll shows that overwhelming majorities of the American people do not support funding for a wall in the middle of a government shutdown. They support re-opening government. “Mr. President, listen to the American people. Re-open our government.” Video of REP LIEU DELIVERS THE DEMOCRATIC WEEKLY ADDRESS ###
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House passed the Hack Your State Department Act, 377-3. The bill will strengthen cyber defenses for the State Department by tapping ethical hackers to identify vulnerabilities in State Department’s networks and data systems. This program will rely on a bug bounty system where authorized hackers can enter a State Department system, identify and disclose weaknesses and receive compensation. Additionally, it will establish a Vulnerability Disclosure Program to field vulnerabilities reported by the general public. In December, the President signed into law the Hack the Department of Homeland Security Act, which Rep. Lieu and Rep. Scott Taylor (R-VA) introduced in the House last Congress. "As a Computer Science major, I’ve been deeply concerned that we’re not doing enough to protect our government’s data. I’m pleased the House passed my Hack Your State Department Act, which I reintroduced with Rep. Yoho at the beginning of this Congress. It shows there is bipartisan willingness to innovate in order to keep our country’s sensitive information secure. There is no such thing as Republican or Democratic cyber security, it's just cybersecurity. This bill is designed to provide another tool to keep the State Department, its data and its employees safe. We have to be responsive and dynamic to face evolving cyber threats that come our way, and this bill helps us do that.” ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after House passed H.R. 268, the Disaster Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2019. The bill will provide $12.14 billion in funding for communities impacted by recent hurricanes, typhoons, wildfires, and other natural disasters, including those impacted by the Woolsey fire, and would re-open government. “The federal government has a responsibility to look after all Americans, and this role becomes especially dire after communities experience a natural disaster. I know this firsthand, because many people in my district were devastated by the Woolsey fire last fall. I visited disaster shelters and saw the critical role that public services play in helping people rebuild after tragedy. It is irresponsible and cruel that the President threatened to cut off disaster funding for Californians—including my constituents—out of spite, and it’s equally appalling that Trump is considering redirecting Army Corps of Engineers funds for disaster victims to pay for his wall. I'm pleased that this bill would both direct funds to disaster relief and re-open government so that those funds can be used. I voted for this bill because disaster victims deserve our empathy and support.” ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after a federal court ruled that the Census Bureau’s plans to include a question on citizenship was unlawful. “The Census is a critical tool to ensure our government can allocate proper resources to people in the United States by conducting a thorough count of those living in our communities. Adding a citizenship question was a transparent and unconstitutional effort by the Trump Administration to further marginalize vulnerable communities by discouraging them from participating in the Census. I’m pleased the court agreed.” ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House passed a resolution rejecting white nationalism and white supremecy. This resolution follows Rep. Steve King's comments to the New York Times, asking "White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization — how did that language become offensive?”, which prompted Minority Leadership to remove Rep. King from his committee roles. "It's about time Republican Leadership took action against GOP Rep. Steve King—who is a stark, raving racist—for his repeated bigoted and xenophobic statements. I urge Republican Leadership now to look at the statements made by the occupant of the Oval Office." ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the United Teachers Los Angeles strike. “I stand with UTLA and their fight for better resources for Los Angeles’ public education system. Unions are the backbone of American society, and they strengthen our country by fighting for higher wages, stronger workplace protections and beneficial policies for workers. Public teachers unions, in particular, strengthen our public education systems and help students succeed by advocating for better school resources, smaller class sizes and policies that entice top talent. An investment in our public education system is an investment in our future, and UTLA has my support.” ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement: “In October 2017, I was asked by the Asian American Justice Committee (AAJC) to celebrate the efforts of the Women’s March by presenting an award to one of the co-organizers, Ms. Sarsour. Although this was over a year ago, I hope to clear up any continued confusion that I selected Ms. Sarsour as the recipient of this award. I did not. I also did not know who Mr. Sarsour was, and met her for the first time at the AAJC event. I presented the award because I believed then – as I do now – that the Women’s March was an incredibly inspirational opportunity for women, and all Americans, to come together to make America a more perfect union. At that time, I was unaware of Ms. Sarsour’s controversial statements and associations. I was later shown various statements she has made and realized that presenting her with an award for the Women's March could be construed as an endorsement of her beliefs. It was not. Throughout my career, I have always fought injustice and bigotry, including anti-Semitism and religious intolerance, and I will continue to do so. I unequivocally condemn any beliefs or statements to the contrary.” ... “I support the principles of the Women’s March, which motivated millions of people to engage in political activism and champion causes like women’s equality and social justice. The failure by the Women’s March founders like Linda Sarsour and other to adequately denounce Louis Farrakhan and his hateful, anti-Semitic views is deeply disturbing and unacceptable. Farrakhan’s odious beliefs and comments run counter to my deeply held beliefs that all people should be treated with respect and dignity. We must do all we can to fight bigotry and religious intolerance. Anti-Semitism has a long and vile history, and continues to be a grave problem we must address head-on. I remain committed to fighting against hate in all forms.” ###
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Congressman Brad Sherman (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s potential plan to divert funding from disaster relief efforts in areas impacted by hurricanes and other natural disasters. “It’s clear at this point that Trump views disaster funding with derision. Otherwise, why in one week would he threaten to withhold FEMA funding to aid California wildfire victims and lay the groundwork to use disaster money for Hurricanes Harvey and Maria to build his wall? Our constituents have been victims of natural disasters, and we’re appalled by this development. No one wants his or her community to be impacted by a devastating disaster, but it’s an incredible asset to have federal support when one strikes. It’s appalling that Trump is willing to use disaster funding as leverage against a state he hates or as a piggy bank for his pet projects. Trump refuses to reopen the government and work with Democrats on effective border security and has dragged our country into the longest shutdown in its history. Now, he wants to add disaster victims to the list of millions who are already suffering from this shutdown.” ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Congressman Brad Sherman (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s tweet threatening to cut off federal money to fight California wildfires. “Trump’s threat to withhold FEMA support for California wildfire victims demonstrates a level of malice he seems to reserve only for Americans who live in California. He knows that the majority of Californians have rejected his caustic agenda but that doesn’t mean our wildfire victims are undeserving of federal support. Blaming the fires on our forest management programs misses the fact that the Woolsey Fire, which devastated parts of our districts, was not a forest fire. Additionally, the federal government oversees the majority of forests in California, not the state. Trump is lying, which is never something we should accept from our president, but it’s particularly reprehensible when he lies to justify hurting disaster victims. What he is proposing is illegal under the Stafford Act, and we urge him to retract his tweet." ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), introduced one of the boldest climate change bills in Congress. The Climate Solutions Act of 2019 encourages strong renewable energy standards by requiring that 100 percent of electricity sold in the United States be generated from renewable sources by 2035. It will also aggressively target greenhouse gases by requiring such emissions to be 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. It also creates a national energy efficiency standard. Rep. Lieu has long been active in fighting climate change, having introduced versions of the Climate Solutions Act in both the 114th and 115th Congress. This version of the bill will be the most aggressive yet. “There is no threat greater to our nation’s security than climate change. Failing to protect our planet will endanger the lives of millions, hurt our economy and jeopardize our children’s future. The wildfires in my district were worsened by drought conditions and are a sliver of what is in store if we fail to act. My bill is bold because we need to be bold on climate change. Now that Democrats are in the majority, we can and will be more aggressive on curbing the impact of climate change and creating a sustainable future for generations to come.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL HERE ###
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) was sworn into his third term in Congress. Rep. Lieu, a veteran, was first elected in 2014 and has since proudly served California’s 33rd Congressional District. In the 116th Congress, Rep. Lieu will sit on the House Judiciary Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He will also serve in House Leadership as a Democratic Policy and Communications Committee (DPCC) Co-Chair. “Change is coming. “For me, it’s the beginning of my third term in Congress representing the people of California’s 33rd district. It has been the honor of a lifetime to represent our community in Congress, and champion issues of critical importance to my constituents. I’m thankful for the chance to continue to represent the best district in the country. “For our country, it’s a chance to set a new course. Americans sent the most diverse group of people to Congress in history—a reflection of our nation’s values. It was a direct repudiation of the hateful, fear-mongering rhetoric we regularly hear from the White House. The Democratic Majority will work for all people, and today that work begins. “In the 116th Congress, we’ll have a lot on our plates but, no matter the issue, I will continue to champion the rule of law and the protection of our democratic institutions. I’ll fight to address climate change, protect the cybersecurity of consumers, address homelessness in our communities, and restore faith in America around the globe. “Central to the House’s role in government is empowering the people we represent. We as the new Majority are committed to doing just that. I look forward to working with and hearing from my constituents as their representative and from broader swaths of the country as DPCC Co-Chair in House Leadership.” ###
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA), co-chairs of the California Aerospace Caucus, sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis urging him to utilize California’s existing aerospace assets including the Air Force’s Space and Missile Systems Center when building out a Space Force. In the letter, the Members write: We support DoD’s renewed focus on space and effort to conduct a thoughtful, strategic reorganization. Given our nation’s dependence on space-based technology for everything from communications to navigation and the rapid gains by our adversaries to threaten those assets, it is critical that we have the best structure in place to ensure continued U.S. superiority. As we design that structure, however, we must avoid inadvertent setbacks by dismantling what is already working. As Co-Chairs of the California Aerospace Caucus, we are immensely proud of our state’s space-focused organizations, innovators, researchers and workforce. It is no coincidence that the Air Force’s Space and Missile System Center (SMC), which executes 85 percent of the Department’s military space procurement budget, calls California home. SMC is part of a unique, symbiotic aerospace hub in California that includes the two federally-funded research and development centers (FFRDC) most dedicated to space, Aerospace Corporation and NASA’s Jet-Propulsion Laboratory; installations with important space-related missions at Vandenberg AFB, Edwards AFB, and Ames Research Center; top university programs in aerospace engineering; leading space companies like United Launch Alliance, SpaceX, and Aerojet Rocketdyne; the nation’s only aerospace startup accelerator, Starburst; and the highly-educated, specialized workforce that makes it all possible. California’s aerospace industry makes up 10 percent of the global market and includes 25 percent of all U.S. jobs in space vehicles and guided missiles. An aerospace hub like California’s takes decades to develop and cannot be easily replicated. Aerospace Corporation, for example, has been the FFRDC for military space going back to the earliest days of military space activities and its workforce is a unique and major asset to our national security. We strongly believe that whatever final form the national security space structure takes, it would be wise to leverage our existing assets in California, including the critical role of SMC in space acquisition and the rich aerospace ecosystem that supports it. Standing up new, redundant organizations risks disrupting current space acquisition efforts at an immense cost to the taxpayer and, potentially, national security. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) have led a group of fifty-four members of Congress in a letter urging U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to immediately end the policy of deterring migrants from applying for asylum at U.S. ports of entry. The letter comes after reports that two Honduran children were killed in Tijuana over the weekend, highlighting the dangers facing the growing numbers of Central Americans are stranded in Mexican border towns. The Department’s expanded practice of “metering” has limited the number of asylum seekers who can present their claims at ports of entry, in addition to transferring resources away from the asylum process. This manufactured crisis at the border may lead to even more unnecessary deaths in the weeks and months to come as asylum seekers attempt to cross between ports of entry. In the letter, the federal lawmakers also call on Customs and Border Protection to explain future plans to facilitate access to asylum at ports of entry. “Testimonies from asylum seekers and family unit apprehension statistics from 2018 strongly suggest that the bottleneck at ports of entry are leading to a growing number of asylum seekers attempting to cross between ports of entry. If this policy did not contribute to the death of Jakelin Caal, it will lead to other deaths of innocent children. Furthermore, metering puts our national security at risk by forcing Border Patrol to use limited resources to apprehend asylum seekers, rather than focusing on criminals or terrorists who represent a real security risk to the United States,” the federal lawmakers wrote. “To ensure compliance with U.S. law, prevent further deaths, and secure our borders, CBP must explain how it plans to facilitate access to asylum at ports of entry. If additional resources are required to comply with the law, CBP must come before Congress with a detailed request. Continuing with the status quo is simply unacceptable.” In addition to Torres and Lieu, the letter was also signed by Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Filemon Vela (D-TX), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-NY), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Grace Meng (D-NY), Darren Soto (D-FL), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (D-GA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), John Garamendi (D-CA), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), James P. McGovern (D-MA), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Karen Bass (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), André Carson (D-IN), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Judy Chu (D-CA), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Anthony G. Brown (D-MD), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). The full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Nielsen, We continue to mourn the death of Jakelin Amei Rosmery Caal Maquin, the seven-year old Guatemalan girl who died in Customs and Border Protection (CBP) custody. We are aware that the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General will investigate this horrific incident. However, this is not enough. We call on you to take immediate steps to end the policy of deterring migrants from applying for asylum at ports of entry, which is leading asylum seekers to attempt crossings in dangerous areas. This policy is likely illegal, and it is certainly irresponsible and dangerous. In an attempt to deter asylum seekers from presenting claims at the U.S.-Mexico border, the Department has begun to limit its capacity to process asylum requests at ports of entry. The Department has also expanded the use of a practice known as “metering,” wherein CBP officials only allow a certain number of asylum seekers to present claims each day. This practice thwarts the intent of multiple provisions of U.S. law. The Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1225 and 1158) clearly states that asylum seekers at ports of entry must be allowed to present claims. Furthermore, in 2017, after Non-Governmental Organizations documented a pattern of asylum seekers being turned away at ports of entry, Congress approved an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2018 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, explicitly prohibiting the use of funds in contravention of 8 U.S.C. 1225. The Department’s policy of intentional deterrence is likely a violation of both the Immigration and Nationality Act and the prohibition included in the Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations bill. The policy of deterring asylum seekers is creating an unsustainable situation in Mexican border towns, where the number of asylum seekers awaiting entry is growing by the day. In many cases, asylum seekers are being forced to stay in emergency shelters, where conditions are unsanitary and or unsafe. In fact, it was the desperation caused by metering that led asylum seekers in San Ysidro to lead a protest at the U.S. port of entry, to which CBP responded by firing tear gas across the border. Testimonies from asylum seekers and family unit apprehension statistics from 2018 strongly suggest that the bottleneck at ports of entry are leading to a growing number of asylum seekers attempting to cross between ports of entry. If this policy did not contribute to the death of Jakelin Caal, it will lead to other deaths of innocent children. Furthermore, metering puts our national security at risk by forcing Border Patrol to use limited resources to apprehend asylum seekers, rather than focusing on criminals or terrorists who represent a real security risk to the United States. To ensure compliance with U.S. law, prevent further deaths, and secure our borders, CBP must explain how it plans to facilitate access to asylum at ports of entry. If additional resources are required to comply with the law, CBP must come before Congress with a detailed request. Continuing with the status quo is simply unacceptable. Sincerely, ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Senate passed H.R. 7327, a bill package that includes the Hack the Department of Homeland Security Act. The bill would establish a bug bounty pilot program – modeled off of similar programs at the Department of Defense and major tech companies. The program will strengthen cyber defenses at DHS by utilizing “white-hat” or ethical hackers to help identify unique and undiscovered vulnerabilities in the DHS networks and data systems. Reps. Lieu and Scott Taylor (R-VA) introduced the House version, which passed in September. The bill will now travel to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “As a computer science major, I am thrilled the Senate has passed their version of the Hack DHS Act that I introduced with Rep. Taylor in 2017. By sending this bill to the President’s desk, Congress is signaling that it takes our government’s cybersecurity seriously. Bug bounty programs have proven to be critical to enhancing cybersecurity protections in the private sector and at the Pentagon. Expanding this program to DHS will fortify our nation’s defenses against cyber security attacks. In the 21st Century, we need to utilize all the tools available to fight cyber threats.” ###
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after it was reported that the Trump Administration would be withdrawing troops from Syria. "I strongly agree with the President’s decision to withdraw US troops from Syria. Congress never authorized the US to go to war in Syria. While going after terrorists is authorized, both the Obama and Trump Administrations went far beyond the congressionally authorized use of force against terrorists. Moreover, neither Administration had a strategy for Syria. Neither Administration could articulate why American troops were fighting in Syria, what the desired end state should be, nor how we would achieve it. I repeatedly criticized both Administrations for not having a strategy and for taking war actions not authorized by Congress. I am pleased that this unauthorized and failed executive branch war in Syria will finally come to an end." Rep Lieu’s prior statements on Syria: In June 2017, Rep. Lieu condemned President Trump for threatening President Bashar al-Assad and asserted that Congress must authorize any use of force in Syria. In May 2017, Rep. Lieu spoke out against the U.S. military’s airstrikes in Syria. In April 2017, Rep. Lieu denounced President Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons attack, and criticized the Trump Administration’s lack of coherent strategy in Syria and its unauthorized use of force. In March 2017, Rep. Lieu sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis regarding recent reports of significant increases in civilian casualties from U.S. airstrikes in Syria and Iraq. In March 2017, Rep. Lieu slammed the Trump Administration’s decision to deploy U.S. ground troops in Syria. In October 2015, Rep. Lieu commended the Obama Administration for ending the Syrian rebel training program, and called again for an end to U.S. airstrikes. In September 2015, Rep. Lieu expressed deep concern over U.S. airstrikes in Syria, citing his prior record of opposing U.S. military force in Syria. In August 2015, Rep. Lieu urged the Obama Administration to put forward a comprehensive strategy for the conflict in Syria. In February 2015, Rep. Lieu announced his opposition to the Obama Administration’s new AUMF proposal, arguing it had to potential to authorize the deployment of unlimited ground troops in Iraq and Syria (and anywhere else in the Middle East) by Obama and subsequent administrations, while at the same time restricting the actions of those ground troops. ###
12.17.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) joined Members of Congress from California to urge leadership on the Appropriations and Ways and Means Committee to include $9.054 billion and tax relief for the communities impacted by the wildfires in a disaster supplemental funding package. The supplemental funding package will assist Californians who were devastated by a string of recent wildfires in Butte, Los Angeles and Ventura counties. In the letter, the Members write: As you know, last month California was devastated by the deadliest and most destructive wildfires in our state’s history. We are writing to ask that you include $9.054 billion and tax relief for the communities impacted by the wildfires as requested by the State of California in a disaster supplemental funding package. On November 12, President Trump granted a Major Disaster Declaration for the state of California as a result of the wildfires. In the previous week, the Camp, Hill, and Woolsey fires had begun, burning more than 247,000 acres and destroying more than 20,000 structures across Butte, Los Angeles, and Ventura counties. The Camp Fire became the most destructive and deadliest fire in the state’s history taking the lives of more than 85 individuals, with a number of residents still unaccounted for. In Southern California, three were confirmed dead. Throughout the state thousands have been left homeless. To make matters worse, residents are now dealing with storms and resulting flooding and mudslides. We appreciate your efforts to provide assistance to California and other areas affected by major disasters in past years. As you know, on November 28, the Director of California’s Office of Emergency Services wrote to Speaker Ryan, Democratic Leader Pelosi, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and Ranking Member Lowey with an initial request of $9.054 billion in disaster funding as well as tax relief for impacted communities. We strongly support this request and urge you to include it as you develop a supplemental funding package. ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) led a letter signed by 12 Members of Congress who are also veterans to Saudi Arabia Ambassador to the United States Khalid bin Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud. The letter asks him to explain the Washington Post investigation about the Saudi government’s role in sending U.S. veterans to lobby Congress against a bill the Saudis opposed. The Saudi government allegedly reserved nearly 500 rooms at Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. for the veterans and misled them about who had organized the trip. The Members expressed concern that the veterans’ stay at the Trump Hotel was meant to curry favor with the President and that the Saudi government duped U.S. veterans. In the letter, the Members write: “As Members of Congress who are also veterans, we are deeply concerned the Saudi government allegedly not only deceived our nation’s veterans, but did so to curry favor with Donald Trump by staying at his hotel – from which he profits because he has refused to divest his business interests. This episode raises legal and moral questions about the abuse of the U.S. Constitution’s Emoluments Clause and the abuse of our veterans. For greater clarity on this disturbing investigation, we respectfully request a response to the questions below: Did the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) sponsor trips to Washington, D.C. during which veterans were housed at Trump International Hotel and given lavish dinners and drinks? If so, why did KSA select veterans specifically for these trips? If not, why does the Post report that Congressional staff with whom veterans met said, “Are you the veterans that are getting bribed?” Does KSA dispute the validity of the U.S. Department of Justice FARA filings referenced in the Washington Post article? Why did the lobbyists who helped organize these veteran fly-ins suddenly switch venues to the Trump Hotel in Washington, D.C. after the 2016 election, after previously housing veterans in Northern Virginia? Does the Royal Embassy have any evidence that shows all veterans involved were told that KSA funded these lobbying trips? The article claims that veterans were given “a few fact sheets” about The Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA) and their missions. What specific materials were disseminated to veterans, and will you provide those materials to Congress?” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed through unanimous consent bipartisan legislation he introduced with Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) to honor the contributions of more than 18,000 Chinese-American World War II veterans. The bill will authorize Congress to award the highest civilian honor--a Congressional Gold Medal--to these heroes. The bill was introduced by Sens. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), and Thad Cochran (R-MS) in the Senate and was passed in Septemberr. “I’m proud to have co-led the introduction of this bill to award Chinese American WWII veterans with the Congressional Gold Medal,” said Lieu. “We will finally have the chance to honor the service and sacrifice of Chinese Americans who fought for the U.S. in WWII. By proudly serving their country, even in the face of the shameful Chinese Exclusion Act, Chinese American veterans exemplified patriotism and demonstrated a deep commitment to the United States. As a veteran, I’m grateful to have worked on this legislation, along with Rep. Royce, and Sens. Duckworth, Cochran and Hirono, to honor the lives and legacies of these WWII heroes." “The United States remains forever indebted to the bravery and sacrifice that the Chinese American veterans of World War II displayed. From the Flying Tigers, to their service in the Pacific and across Europe—these heroes answered the call of duty when our nation needed them the most and are worthy of recognition,” said Royce . “To these brave veterans of World War II, thank you for your sacrifice. We are a grateful nation, and we honor your service by working to build a better world.” “Despite facing outright discrimination, more than 18,000 brave Chinese Americans volunteered to risk their lives to protect their fellow Americans during World War II,” said Duckworth. “I’m proud my colleagues from both sides of the aisle have chosen to recognize this brave group of Veterans’ unwavering commitment and honor them with a Congressional Gold Medal.” “More than 18,000 Chinese Americans served our country during World War II, while also facing discrimination here at home,” said Hirono. “Like other minority service members, their contributions were not appropriately recognized during or immediately after World War II. The passage of the Chinese American World War II Veterans Congressional Gold Medal Act goes a long way to right that wrong and express our gratitude for Chinese American veterans’ distinguished service.” “We commend Congress for honoring the dutiful service and role of the Chinese American Veterans of World War II with the Congressional Gold Medal,” said Ed Gor, past president of the Chinese American Citizens Alliance. “The heartfelt considerations for this group by House Lead Co-sponsors Rep. Ed Royce (CA) and Rep. Ted Lieu (CA) and Senate Lead Co-sponsors Sen. Tammy Duckworth (IL), Thad Cochran (ret.) (MS), and Mazie Hirono (HI) mark a significant milestone for the nearly 20,000 Chinese American Veterans. These Veterans and their families, as well as surviving family members of our departed, deem this recognition a most high honor from a grateful nation.” said Samantha Cheng, Project Director, the Chinese American WWII Veterans Recognition Project. "Having Congress approve the Congressional Gold Medal for Chinese American Veterans of World War II is momentous and the timing truly historic. This month, as the nation reflects on the 75th Anniversary of the Magnuson Act, which ended 61 years of discrimination towards Chinese Americans, it is poignant and bittersweet. Tens of thousands of Chinese American men and women enlisted at a difficult juncture in American history, when the Chinese Exclusion Act was still in effect. We are grateful and appreciative for Congress’s recognition of service and sacrifice made by Chinese American veterans." said Davace Chin, National President, Chinese American Citizens Alliance. ###
12.13.2018	Video of REP. LIEU REMARKS AT HOUSE JUDICIARY HEARING WITH GOOGLE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the First Amendment. "This week Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee held their fourth stupid hearing on regulating the search algorithms of internet companies, such as Google. The hearing was stupid because the First Amendment prevents the government from regulating the speech of non-governmental entities. I made a forceful defense of the First Amendment during the hearing and stated my long-held view that the First Amendment prevents the government from regulating the content of speech. Yesterday on CNN, I was asked if I missed an opportunity to question Google about some of their criticized practices given the immense amount of information they have. I would’ve loved to have had more than the five minutes I was allotted to ask about privacy and antitrust concerns. In the interview, I again stated the First Amendment prevents government from regulating the content of speech. I also made the point that it was the First Amendment that prevents me from regulating speech. I have been, and always will be, an ardent defender of the First Amendment. Whether deliberately or out of ignorance, some conservative media outlets and entertainment shows like Tucker Carlson Tonight tried to mischaracterize my words to mean the exact opposite of what I was conveying. This is my response: I served on active duty in the United States military to defend the right of anyone, including Mr. Carlson, to say stupid stuff, to criticize me, and to blatantly mischaracterize what I said." ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Olympus Medical Systems Corp. reached a settlement with federal authorities over their failure to properly disclose instances when their medical scopes were linked to the spread of superbug infections. Mr. Lieu has long sought remedies for those impacted by Olympus’ actions, and has been working on the issue since it was reported in 2015 that superbug infections had occurred at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles and at the Ronald Regan UCLA Medical Center. “Olympus Corp. knowingly failed to alert and warn American hospitals, doctors and patients about its defective medical scope. In doing, Olympus deliberately endangered the lives of thousands of American patients and killed many others. Patients and hospitals deserve to know that the medical devices being used on patients are safe and effective. I thank the Justice Department for taking action and holding Olympus accountable and bringing justice to those who were affected by the company’s egregious decision to not report infections linked to their devices. As cases of antibiotic resistant bacteria continue to rise, it’s imperative we do everything we can to prevent and report any and all instances.” MR. LIEU’S EFFORTS TO COMBAT THE SPREAD OF ANTIBIOTIC-RESISTANT SUPERBUGS In 2015, in response to news of superbug infections and deaths occurring at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles and at the Ronald Regan UCLA Medical Center, Mr. Lieu called for a Congressional hearing to examine the outbreaks. Mr. Lieu sought answers from the Olympus Corporation of Americas, makers of the duodenoscopes that transmitted the deadly CRE bacteria to patients during a routine medical procedure. In the letter, he asked Olympus Corp. how they planned to prevent superbug outbreaks linked to contaminated medical scopes and about the effectiveness of their cleaning instructions. Mr. Lieu also sent letters to government agencies, including a letter to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg seeking further information and ideas on how to best prevent fatal outbreaks of antibiotic resistant bacteria and a letter to the SEC Chair Mary Jo White to investigate Olympus for fraud and violations of U.S. securities laws. In August 2016, Mr. Lieu sent a letter to Secretary John Kerry urging the State Department to request that Japanese authorities investigate and prosecute Olympus for civil or criminal misconduct in their mishandling of antibiotic-resistant bacteria infections caused by their medical devices. After a yearlong investigation that Mr. Lieu requested, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform found significant gaps in existing law that contributed to a nationwide problem of superbug outbreaks due to tainted duodenoscopes. This led to Mr. Lieu introducing two pieces of legislation, H.R. 4965, the Disclosure; and Encouragement of Verification, Innovation, Cleaning, and Efficiency (DEVICE) Act and H.R. 4966, the Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act. On February 4, 2016, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the Senate companion bill to Mr. Lieu’s H.R. 4966. It was included in Section 3059 of the 21st Century Cures Act, which was signed into law by President Barack Obama on December 13, 2016. ###
12.04.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D-NY) requested an investigation into the alleged efforts of former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort’s attorney, who purportedly shared information about the Special Counsel’s investigation with the President’s lawyers. In a letter to the Grievance Committee for the Second, Eleventh, and Thirteenth Judicial Districts of New York, Reps. Lieu and Rice urge the Chief Counsel to evaluate whether Mr. Manafort’s lawyer violated rules of professional conduct by breaking the terms of Mr. Manafort’s cooperation agreement with the Special Counsel’s office. In the letter, the Members write: As you may know, public reporting indicates that Mr. Downing briefed President Trump’s attorneys on discussions with the Special Counsel after agreeing to cooperate with federal investigators. More than simply an unusual situation, this conduct threatens to interfere with the primary purpose of the Special Counsel’s investigation—to ascertain the truth about Russian interference in the 2016 election and hold any American conspirators accountable. Last week, Special Counsel Mueller filed a status report accusing Manafort of breaking the terms of their cooperation agreement and lying to the FBI. Joint defense agreements like the one shared by President Trump’s and Paul Manafort’s attorneys are a typical way for criminal defendants to share information while maintaining attorney-client privilege before one of the defendants agrees to cooperate. However, Mr. Manafort’s lawyers continued to share information about what the Special Counsel asked Manafort, and what he said in response, past the point at which Manafort began working with the Special Counsel. Legal analysts have speculated that Mr. Manafort kept the lines of communication open between his team and the President’s in the hopes of a presidential pardon. Indeed, on Tuesday, November 28, President Trump said that a pardon for Paul Manafort was “not off the table. Why would I take it off the table?” Under The New York Rules of Professional Conduct Section 8.4 – “Misconduct” Subsection C: “It is professional misconduct for a lawyer to…Engage in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation. By deceiving prosecutors who had rightfully assumed that Mr. Manafort and his lawyers were cooperating as per the terms of their agreement, Mr. Downing at the very least should be subject to a review by the Grievance Committee for potential disbarment. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
12.03.2018	LOS ANGELES – Today, (D-NJ-09) Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) reacted to Donald Trump’s statement last week that the possibility of him issuing a pardon for his disgraced former campaign chairman Paul Manafort “was not off the table.” “Donald Trump is once again floating possible abuse of his pardon power. By insinuating he would pardon his former campaign manager, Trump is endangering our democracy. If Trump uses his pardon power to immunize Manafort to protect himself and his family, it will be a declaration by Trump that he and his associates are above the law. In a fair and just society, no one is above the law. Trump is no stranger to abusing his pardon power, having haphazardly granted clemency to unrepentant felons and racist demagogues. But, his allusion to pardoning Paul Manafort yesterday is a red line and could amount to obstruction of justice. As Republicans have refused to assess one iota of Trump’s corruption, we’re looking forward to having a Democratic majority committed to conducting fair oversight into Trump’s abuses of power. Our democracy is counting on it.” In August, Manafort was found guilty by a federal jury of eight counts of tax fraud. In September, he plead guilty in a separate federal case to charges of conspiracy and witness tampering. This week, Special Counsel Robert Mueller alleged that Manafort had violated his plea agreement and was leveling new criminal charges against Manafort. To date, former top Trump Corporation executive and Trump personal lawyer Michael Cohen, Trump national security advisor Michael Flynn, top Trump campaign aide Rick Gates, and Trump campaign foreign policy advisor George Papadopolous have all pled guilty to felonies in federal court. Reps. Pascrell and Lieu have two of Congress’s most vocal voices calling for greater oversight of Donald Trump and of his use of the pardon power, publishing a joint op-ed in USA Today on the subject in April. Pascrell wrote another an op-ed on the subject in May. In June, Pascrell and Lieu introduced H.Res. 928, a Resolution of Inquiry directing Attorney General Jeff Sessions to provide to the House of Representatives any documents, recordings, memos, records, or other communications relating to any pardon Donald Trump has issued or has considered issuing, including those potentially involving Michael Cohen, Paul Manafort, Mike Flynn, George Papadopoulos, and anyone else including Trump’s family and himself. The resolution was bottled up from consideration by united Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee. ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) sent letters to Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker and Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert Wilkie requesting that the Department of Justice direct money recovered from the recently prosecuted cases involving Westside Services LLC back to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Rep. Lieu and Sen. Feinstein are making the request so that the funds may be used to support important services for veterans at the West Los Angeles VA as they were originally intended. In the letter, Rep. Lieu and Sen. Feinstein write: “As you know, former VA employee, Ralph Tillman – accused of filing a false federal tax return and lying to VA investigators after taking $286,000 from the Westside Services parking lot operator Richard Scott – was sentenced on September 24, 2018, to 5 months in federal prison. In August, Scott, who bribed Tillman for more than a decade to look the other way while he skimmed approximately $13 million in revenue from parking lot leases, was sentenced to nearly six years in prison after pleading guilty. As part of his plea agreement, Scott and his wife have agreed to forfeit their assets. Scott also has agreed to pay approximately $12,619,693 in restitution. The sentencing order directed that the restitution be paid to the VA. “I agree with United States Attorney Nicola T. Hanna who said, ‘This bribery and fraud scheme directly harmed our nation’s veterans by depriving them of revenues that could have been used to provide important services and medical care to the brave men and women who served in our armed forces. The bribery payments to a public official are disturbing because they compromised our trust in government, allowed the scheme to operate for years and led to this defendant pocketing millions of dollars that should have gone to the Department of Veteran’s Affairs.’ “The agreement made between the federal government and the Jones/Bandini de Baker family in 1887 stipulated that the donated land be dedicated as a home for our veterans. After years of mismanagement of the campus, a subsequent federal settlement agreement between the VA and plaintiffs reiterated that activities occurring on the campus must serve Veterans. “Given that the funds that will be recovered from Westside Services were originally meant to serve our veterans, it is imperative that the DOJ and the VA work to ensure these funds do just that. Veterans receiving care at the West Los Angeles VA have served our nation honorably and we call on the DOJ and the VA to ensure these funds fulfil their rightful purpose. I thank you for your attention to this matter and I look forward to your response.” READ THE FULL LETTER HERE ###
11.30.2018	LOS ANGELES - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) hosted his congressional district’s third-annual Congressional App Challenge and first-annual reception for the Challenge at Santa Monica College. Twenty-six students from twenty high schools participated. The winners, Angie and Ben Tait of Redondo Union High School submitted an app entitled “Redondo Union High School Maps”. The Congressional App Challenge, a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications, is open to all middle and high school students who either reside or attend school in California’s 33rd Congressional District. The first place winner’s app is eligible to be featured in the U.S. Capitol Building and House.gov. Additionally, the winner receives $250 in Amazon Web Services Credits and is invited to the #HouseOfCode DC Reception. “As a recovering Computer Science major, I am inspired by all these students who have committed themselves to creating these innovative apps,” Congressman Lieu said. “I am proud to represent a district that is the home to Silicon Beach, as well as SMC and UCLA, which emphasize the importance of STEM innovation and education.” Below are the results of the 2018 Congressional App Challenge: 1st Place: “Redondo Union High School Maps”, submitted by Angie and Ben Tait from Redondo Union High School 2nd Place: “The LA E.Y.E.”, submitted by Jennifer Cao and Allison Jung from Agoura High School, Agatha Grigorian from Verdugo Academy, and Crystal Lee from West Ranch High School 3rd Place: “SchoolDrive”, submitted by Sathvik Vegi from West High School Honorable Mention: Congress Companion, submitted by Amitai Erfanian from Calabasas High School ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted. W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after his Democratic colleagues elected him to House Leadership as a Democratic Policy and Communications Committee (DPCC) Co-Chair. As DPCC Co-Chair, Rep. Lieu will help guide messaging strategy for the House Democratic Caucus. Rep. Lieu received the highest amount of votes for DPCC Co-Chair and is the only Asian American Member and only veteran in House Democratic Leadership. “Thank you to my colleagues for electing me to House Democratic Leadership as a DPCC co-chair. I am honored to join David Cicilline, Debbie Dingell, and Matt Cartwright in shaping Democrats’ bold and inclusive messaging to move America forward. Democrats made history in 2018 by winning the largest popular vote margin in a midterm in U.S. history. We’re ushering in the most diverse, dynamic and enthusiastic caucus we’ve ever had. It’s an exhilarating time to be in the House and I’m honored to have a leadership role. Starting in January, the majority House Democratic Caucus will endeavor to stop any harmful policies of the Trump Administration and Republicans; work on a bipartisan basis to advance positive legislation to move our country forward; and execute our oversight responsibilities. I look forward to collaborating with my Democratic colleagues in the 116th Congress." ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Senate voted to advance a bipartisan resolution to revoke U.S. support for the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen. “I commend the Senate for advancing a bipartisan resolution to end U.S. support for the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen. It’s insane that Congress has gone this long without taking formal action to curb U.S. involvement in atrocities committed in Yemen. Thank you to the 63 senators who today took a step towards saying ‘enough is enough.’ Unfortunately, due to inaction in the House, we’re still a long way from getting the Administration to stop U.S. participation in possible war crimes. I’m continually dismayed by current House Leadership’s unwillingness to act. There’s a hunger among the soon-to-be Majority Democrats in the House to take action and I look forward to pushing for change.” Congressman Lieu’s previous work on Yemen: In August 2018, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to the Department of Defense Inspector General calling for an investigation into whether U.S. personnel supporting Saudi and Emeriti coalition operations in Yemen are violating DoD regulations, the Law of Armed Conflict, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, federal statutes or international law. The letter comes after a Saudi-led airstrike hit a school bus in Yemen last week. Rep. Lieu has long called for more scrutiny into the coalition’s actions in Yemen, questioning the U.S.’s efforts to ensure Saudi and Emeriti forces are actively mitigating civilian casualties and avoiding worsening the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In July 2018, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) sent a letter to Senate and House Armed Services Committee leaders to express support for a National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) provision that would establish certification requirements for U.S. assistance to Gulf partners operating in Yemen. In December 2017, President Donald J. Trump signed the 2018 NDAA, which included two provisions on Yemen that Rep. Lieu authored, into law. . Congressman Lieu authored provisions that will bring critical congressional oversight to the conflict in Yemen for the first time. Sec. 1265 requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. Sec. 1275 requires the President to submit a detailed report that contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. In July 2017, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Lieu’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 that requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen to avoid civilian casualties. In May 2017, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) called on House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce to review the proposed sale of precision-guided munitions to Saudi Arabia. Congressman Lieu also introduced legislation to place conditions on all air-to-ground munitions sales to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The three conditions relate to avoiding civilian casualties, facilitating humanitarian aid, and targeting U.S.-designated terrorist organizations such as AQAP and ISIS. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu led a letter with a bipartisan group of 30 Members of Congress to Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson requesting information related to the operational conduct of the Royal Saudi Air Force in Yemen. In November 2016, Congressman Lieu led the Lantos Human Rights Commission in holding a hearing on the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In August 2016, Congressman Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The letter raised concerns regarding the Saudi-led Coalition’s killing of civilians. Previously, Congressman Lieu had repeatedly raised similar concerns, sending letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter. He also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia. In April 2016, Congressman Lieu introduced a joint resolution in the House (H.J. RES 90) to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia. September 2015, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to General Joseph F. Dunford, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, requesting further information about civilian deaths as a result of Saudi Arabian led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. In the letter, Congressman Lieu requested that the United States cease aiding coalition airstrikes in Yemen until the coalition demonstrates that they will institute proper safeguards to prevent civilian deaths. In August 2015, Congressman Lieu called for the U.S. to halt its participation in coalition airstrikes in Yemen. ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu, Congressman Doug LaMalfa, Congresswoman Julia Brownley and Congressman Brad Sherman urged leadership on the House Appropriations Committee to authorize federal funding to assist constituents impacted by the devastating Camp, Hill and Woolsey fires in California. In the letter, the Members write: “On behalf of our constituents who have been devastated by the California wildfires, we write to urge you to work with us to provide federal funding to assist the impacted communities with recovery. Last week, the Camp, Hill, and Woolsey fires began tearing across our congressional districts in Butte, Los Angeles, and Ventura counties in California. In only a week, the fires have burned more than 244,000 acres and destroyed more than 12,000 structures. The Camp Fire in Northern California has taken the lives of more than 64 individuals with more than six hundred people still missing. It has become the deadliest and most destructive wildfire in California history. In Southern California three people have been confirmed dead as well. In addition, new fires continue to arise around the area, like the Briggs Fire, Lynn Fire, and Peak Fire, which strain firefighting resources and threaten neighborhoods with devastation. As we mourn the loss of lives, our communities will also face the monumental challenges of rebuilding their homes and businesses, recovering possessions, repairing infrastructure, and restoring the environment. As California completes a full assessment of the damage sustained, we remain committed to ensuring that recovery in our districts happens as expeditiously as possible. Last year, we were appreciative of the House Committee on Appropriations’ efforts to approve supplemental funds for California following the 2017 wildfire season and we are grateful for the assistance already granted this year by President Trump and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. As we continue to learn the extent of damage sustained, we ask you to again work with us to provide federal funding for our constituents seeking to rebuild their lives.” ​###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu, Congressman David Cicilline, Congresswoman Linda Sanchez, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo and Congressman Ruben Gallego announced they are introducing the Restoring the Public Trust Act. The bill package incorporates a number of pieces of legislation aimed at strengthening ethical standards in the federal government to prevent government corruption and ensure accountability for the American public. Upon introduction, the Members said: “One of the most surprising aspects of the Trump Administration has been how willingly they have shirked ethical norms—and how easily some of our current laws have allowed it to happen. Actions that would’ve been unthinkable in prior Administrations are standard practice in this one. If there is something positive to come out of the Trump Administration’s culture of corruption, it’s that we now have an acute understanding of the loopholes in our current anticorruption protections. Whether it’s using government airplanes for personal trips or forcing taxpayers to foot the bill for visits to an official’s commercial property, Trump’s willingness to wring the taxpayer dry needs to end. Our institutions are only as strong as people’s faith in them. In order to restore the public’s confidence in their government, we have to get rid of grifting among those in our highest ranks of office. Our Restoring the Public Trust Act is a tool to help us get there.” The Restoring the Public Trust Act is endorsed By: American Oversight; Campaign for Accountability, Common Cause, Public Citizen, and Sunlight Foundation . The bill will include the following provisions: TITLE I: Draining the Swamp The SWAMP Act: The President must reimburse the Treasury Department for taxpayer dollars spent at properties in which he has a financial stake, like Mar-a-Lago. The SWAMP FLYERS Act: Prohibits the use of federal funds for the official travel of a senior political appointee on a non-commercial, private, or chartered flight unless they certify – under penalty of perjury – that no alternative flight was available. The E. Scott Pruitt Accountability for Government Officials Act: Creates a federal criminal penalty for use of public office for private gain, endorsement of products, or aiding family and friends for corrupt purposes. CORRUPT Act: The head of each agency must submit to the Office of Government Ethics a report on the amount expended by that agency to any property owned by the President or his family. RIGGED Act: Makes the federal nepotism laws applicable to the Executive Office of the President. DRAIN the Swamp Act: The head of each agency must submit to the Comptroller General an assessment of any regulatory conflict of interest pertaining to the President and various senior advisors that might arise from an agency’s rule. TITLE II: Rooting Out Conflicts of Interest CLEARANCES Act (COMMONSENSE LEGISLATION ENSURING ACCOUNTABILITY BY REPORTING ACCESS OF NON-CLEARED EMPLOYEES TO SECRETS): The White House must report to Congress when it grants a security clearance in contravention of an unfavorable clearance recommendation, in part to prevent dangerous and heavily indebted individuals from entering the most sensitive positions in government. Blind Trusts: Requires members of the President’s Cabinet and certain senior White House advisors to place stocks, bonds, commodities futures, other forms of securities in a blind trust during their tenure. Preventing domestic emoluments: Prohibits any business interest owned in whole or in part by the President or Vice President, his/her spouse, or immediate family member from doing business with the federal government. Presidential Tax Transparency Act: Requires all candidates for President to release their tax returns for the past three years. No more shadow White House meetings: Require the White House to maintain a publicly accessible website that includes data on visitor logs. TITLE III: Strengthening Our Inspectors General Protecting our inspectors general: Requires notification to Congress of a president’s decision to place an agency inspector general – whose job is to root out waste, fraud, and corruption – on leave or to change their status in any way. Filling empty inspector general positions: Requires the President report to Congress if he or she fails to nominate an Inspector General for a given agency, including a target date for making a formal recommendation. ###
11.14.2018	Friends in CA-33: An evacuation alert is in effect in parts of CA-33. Please follow the instructions of local officials and be prepared to evacuate if directed. For ways to stay up-to-date on the latest developments on the fire, click here. If you're looking for federal assistance or recovery resources, click here. ###
11.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in commemoration of Veterans Day. “Today we honor the incredible sacrifices our men and women in uniform have made in service of our country. Our veterans represent the best of America and we owe them a debt of gratitude for their commitment to protect our country and its values. As an Air Force veteran, I believe we have a duty as Americans to fight for our veterans and ensure our country is providing for them after their service. Thank you to all who have served in our armed forces.” ###
11.07.2018	LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that President Trump has asked for his resignation. “Jeff Sessions has been a faithful foot solider for Trump’s harmful immigration and anti-civil rights agenda at the Department of Justice. But Trump hated that the Attorney General recused himself from overseeing Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation and he publicly chastised Sessions because of it. This is a slow-motion Saturday night massacre. Congress and the American people deserve answers. Chiefly, Members of the Judiciary Committee need to be briefed on why this action is taking place and why now. It appears that this is a clear effort to bypass Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who is currently overseeing the Trump-Russia investigation due to Sessions’ recusal. If the President removed Sessions in order to stop or hinder Mueller’s investigation, that would constitute obstruction of justice. Based on Matthew Whitaker’s public statements regarding the Special Counsel’s investigation I believe he should recuse himself from the investigation as Attorney General Sessions did. At a minimum, Congress needs to have assurances from the new Acting Attorney General and any future Senate-confirmed Attorney General that he or she will inform Congress if they intend to change or reduce the scope of Mueller’s investigation.” ###
11.07.2018	LOS ANGELES – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu issued the following statement after Democrats claimed the majority in the House of Representatives, which will usher in a historic wave of diverse Members of Congress. “A historic number of people made their voices heard yesterday, and today is a new day in America. We will finally have the opportunity to act on the concerns millions of Americans have about corruption in government, their healthcare and our national infrastructure.” ###
11.02.2018	LOS ANGELES – Yesterday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan, Leader Nancy Pelosi, Chairman of the Appropriations Committee Rodney Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee Nita Lowey expressing support for the Nonprofit Security Grant Program, which helps nonprofit institutions protect their communities. In 2016, Congressman Lieu sent a similar letter of support for the measure, which helps nonprofit institutions like synagogues, churches and mosques improve their security protections. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: On Saturday, we witnessed the deadliest attack on the Jewish community in United States history as a gunman took the lives of 11 individuals at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh. This act of terror underscores the urgent need for Congress to implement solutions to combat anti-Semitism and domestic extremism. To begin to do so, I strongly urge you to ensure that at least $60 million for the Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP) is included in the final Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security bill. The attack at the Tree of Life synagogue is part of a larger trend of rising anti-Semitism and hate crimes in the United States and only one of the multiple mass shootings at houses of worship in recent years. According to the Anti-Defamation League, in 2017, 1,986 anti-Semitic incidents were committed, representing a 57 percent increase over the previous year. Similarly troubling, the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism found that hate crimes increased by 12.5 percent in the ten largest cities in the United States in 2017 and by 10.8 percent in Los Angeles. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has warned that religious and cultural community centers and other soft targets with limited security are vulnerable to terrorist attacks. The NSGP has been vital to ensuring that at-risk nonprofit institutions have the resources needed to make security improvements to protect their communities. California alone accounts for more than 16 percent of the eligible urban areas eligible for NSGP funds. Further, in my district in Los Angeles, there are more than 50 religious institutions and schools – common targets for hate crimes. That is why I questioned DHS about the reduction in funding to California-based NSGP applicants in Fiscal Year 2016 and why I was pleased that Congress increased funding for the NSGP the following year and DHS increased funding awarded to California applicants. I strongly support the $60 million level of funding for the NSGP included in the House Committee on Appropriations report for Homeland Security. I am, however, concerned that the level of funding recommended by Senate appropriators is only $35 million. It is critical that Congress adopts a funding level of at least $60 million. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER ###
11.01.2018	WASHINGTON—Last week, President Trump signed into law the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 to authorize water resources development projects. The law contains a provision advocated by Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) to increase the authorization for funding the West Basin Municipal Water District’s Harbor South Bay Water Recycling Project. This project will increase the delivery of recycled water throughout the Harbor and South Bay region, improve water quality, and reduce reliance on imported water. In April, Congressman Lieu and his colleagues wrote to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee requesting the increase in funding authorization. “Since I came to Congress in 2015, my colleagues from Los Angeles and I have been fighting to increase the funding available for the Harbor South Bay Water Recycling Project. I am thrilled that the President has now signed into law a bill that among other things will improve water quality and expand the delivery of recycled water throughout the South Bay. Water scarcity and drought remain perpetual issues in my district and projects like the Harbor South Bay Water Recycling Project are critical to increasing our water supply.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ### Congressman Lieu is a member of the House Foreign Affairs and House Judiciary Committees. Mr. Lieu is a veteran, having served on Active Duty in the Air Force, and is also an Assistant Whip for the Democratic Caucus.
10.19.2018	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Jim McGovern (D-MA) introduced the Arms Sale Oversight Act, which would align House procedures for reviewing major arms sales with existing Senate procedures under the Arms Export Control Act. The bill makes it possible for any House member to force debate on the House floor in the event that the House Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC) does not debate a contested arms sale. Upon introduction, Mr. Lieu said: “The point of this is to ensure Congress is meeting its commitment of conducting good governance. The Arms Export Control Act is meant to guarantee Congress oversees U.S. arm sales but the current procedures often leave HFAC members in the dark. In a time where arms sales with countries like Saudi Arabia are worthy of intense Congressional scrutiny, House Members shouldn’t face roadblocks to doing our jobs. Like our Senate colleagues, we should have the opportunity to thoroughly evaluate and debate arms sales to make sure they’re in our nation’s best interest.” Upon introduction, Mr. McGovern said: "One of the most important responsibilities facing every member of Congress is to determine what is and isn’t in our national security, defense, and economic interest. Just as critically, it’s our job to determine whether America’s actions reflect the very best of our democratic values. Right now, members of the Senate have the ability to bring up for debate the merits of problematic arms sales. Our important bill would extend that ability to the House, and would allow us to ensure that America’s interests – and our values – align with our actions. It’s the right thing to do.” This bill is supported by the Project on Government Oversight. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL HERE ###
10.18.2018	LOS ANGELES – Today, Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) released the findings from a new report generated by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Democratic Staff that shows the consequences of the Trump Administration’s threats to Californians with pre-existing health conditions. In California, if the Trump Administration is successful in its attempts to roll back Affordable Care Act protections, as many as 1,321,000 people could lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases—including as many as 78,000 people in CA-33 alone. “My district has the most people at risk of losing health coverage or facing premium increases because of the Trump Administration’s perplexing decision not to defend the individual mandate,” Rep. Lieu said. “Why won’t this Administration stand up for families and the millions of Americans who benefit from affordable, comprehensive healthcare? Protecting the very popular clause in the Affordable Care Act that protects Americans from insurance discrimination seems like a no-brainer. But, for Congressional Republicans and the Trump Administration, their unending efforts to roll back health protections are as heartless as they are senseless.” Currently, state Republican Attorneys General are suing to strike down the Affordable Care Act. The Trump Administration has announced it will not defend in federal court the ACA’s requirement that individuals maintain insurance coverage, including the requirement that insurers cover people with pre-existing conditions. This report estimates that as many as 2,050,000 people in the individual market in California may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases as a result of their pre-existing health conditions, gender, or age. Individuals with Pre-Existing Health Conditions: As many as 1,321,000 people in the state who purchase insurance through the individual market have pre-existing health conditions and may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases as a result of the Administration’s actions. Of these individuals, 576,000 have pre-existing health conditions severe enough that insurers may deny them coverage altogether. Women: As many as 1,212,000 women in the state who purchase coverage through the individual market may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases because of their gender as a result of the Administration’s actions. Older Adults: If current statutory protections are eliminated, older Americans could be charged more than ten times the amount younger adults pay for their insurance premiums. As many as 856,000 individuals between 50 and 64 years old in the state who purchase health insurance through the individual market may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases as a result of the Administration’s actions. If the Trump Administration’s efforts to eliminate the individual mandate are successful, thousands of Californians will be at risk for losing comprehensive coverage. Without state intervention, California’s healthcare industry could revert back to the era of legalized insurance company discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions. Read The Full Report Here ###
10.11.2018	LOS ANGELES - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) issued the following statement after President Trump signed into law the Music Modernization Act (MMA), which Rep. Lieu helped introduce in the House. This bill includes the first meaningful reforms to the U.S.’s music licensing system in almost two decades and will help all players in the music industry—from music publishers to songwriters and artists to streaming services—thrive in today’s technological landscape. “I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of this bill. This is a great win for the music industry and music lovers alike, especially in my district. My constituents include artists, songwriters, producers, music executives and technological innovators who will benefit from MMA’s reforms. Fortifying copyright law ensures that they can protect their work and make a living doing what they love. For too long, we’ve had an outdated licensing system that hindered artistry and impacted how we listen to music. Congress has worked hard to bring stakeholders together from across the industry to improve the mechanical licensing system – and this carefully crafted bill reflects the dedication of everyone involved. By creating a new body – the Music Licensing Collective – to match songwriters and publishers with recordings, and by creating a blanket license for streaming services, we can help ensure accurate payments to those who deserve to be compensated for their enormous contributions to society.” ###
10.10.2018	LOS ANGELES - Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to the Harvard Admissions lawsuit. “I support affirmative action. I also support the use of race in college admissions. Diversity enhances the college experience for all students and diversity is a strength of our nation. I agree with the Supreme Court’s ruling that race may be used as a factor in admissions decisions and urge the trial court to uphold the use of race as a factor in admissions at Harvard." ###
10.03.2018	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate passed the FAA Reauthorization Bill, which includes provisions to reduce noise pollution and an amendment authored by Mr. Lieu. This amendment will require the National Research Council to write a report assessing the existence of non-leaded fuels that can be used by piston-powered planes. The report will also include information on ambient lead levels near airports where piston-powered aircraft are used and recommendations to reduce those levels. “I am glad we’re able to make strides in addressing noise pollution from planes. The bill includes a study on the health impacts of overflight noise in six metropolitan areas including Southern California and a requirement that the FAA considers ways to address community noise concerns when changing departure procedures. We’re also guaranteeing that our government is responsive to the public by creating a system where communities can contact FAA regional officials directly and share aircraft and noise pollution concerns. I am also pleased that the final bill includes my amendment to address lead pollution. Many of my constituents, particularly those in neighborhoods around the Santa Monica Airport, have expressed concerns over the local environmental impact of leaded aviation fuel. This report will be critical to the development of non-leaded aviation gasoline and, as a result, will reduce lead pollution for those living near airports.” Background on the Lieu Amendment: Directs the National Research Council of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to conduct a study and develop a report on aviation gasoline. The study shall include an assessment of: Existing non-leaded fuel alternative to the aviation gasoline used by piston-powered general aviation aircraft; Ambient Pb (lead) concentrations at and around airports where piston-powered general aviation aircraft are used; and Mitigation measures to reduce ambient Pb concentrations, including: Increasing the size of run-up areas Relocating run-up areas Imposing restrictions on aircraft using aviation gasoline Increasing the use of motor gasoline in piston-powered general aviation aircraft The Secretary of Transportation shall submit the National Research Council report to Congress within 1 year of enactment of the bill. ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) led a letter with Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), David Cicilline (D-RI), Steve Chabot (R-OH) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) urging UN Ambassador Nikki Haley to discourage UN partner nations from supporting armed proxies or pursuing alternative agendas that do not support the United Nations reconciliation process for Libya. In the letter, the Members write: As you are undoubtedly aware, the persistent instability in Libya continues to threaten the interests of the United States and its allies across the Mediterranean region and within the Sahel. Nearly three times the size of Texas, with land borders longer than the U.S.-Mexico border, Libya’s current lawlessness is being exploited by terrorists, human traffickers, and transnational organized crime. These forces are likely to grow if Libya’s governing structures remain weak and the ongoing political divisions endure. Absent urgent support, we believe Libya’s current trajectory will result in further destabilization and risks repeating the events of 2014 which effectively split the country in two. Indeed, foreign interference and support for armed factions inside Libya, including by U.S. partners, continues to dissuade Libyan parties from engaging in the UN process in good faith. In light of these concerning developments, we request that the United States Mission to the United Nations prioritize two immediate steps with regard to Libya: Encourage UN Special Representative Salame and the UN Department of Political Affairs to focus on the action plan’s full scope of confidence-building measures, including the implementation of critical economic stabilization measures, regular engagement with the armed groups and agreements by the various factions to hold a referendum on the constitutional draft and a viable election law. Discourage partner nations from undermining the UN’s reconciliation process through support of proxy forces inside Libya and violations of the UN arms embargo. Ultimately, no one aspect of the action plan will ensure that Libya’s disparate parties and militias are pushed toward reconciliation. Systematic engagement and aggressive political pressure from the United States and its allies will be necessary to overcome the untenable status quo and salvage the UN process. We urge you and the U.S. Mission to continue prioritizing this portfolio; it is in our national interest to take meaningful diplomatic steps today that may prevent greater instability down the road. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House passed the Hack Your State Department Act, which he introduced with Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL) in March. The bill will strengthen cyber defenses for the State Department by tapping ethical hackers to identify vulnerabilities in State Department’s networks and data systems. This program will rely on a bug bounty system where authorized hackers can enter a State Department system, identify and disclose weaknesses and receive compensation. Additionally, it will establish a Vulnerability Disclosure Program to field vulnerabilities reported by the general public. “Cyber warfare is the next frontier of global conflict and our government needs to be prepared. As a recovering Computer Science major, I’ve long been concerned that we’re not doing enough to ensure our government’s data is secure. That’s why I’m grateful that the House has passed the Hack Your State Department Act, which I introduced with Rep. Yoho in March. It shows there’s a bipartisan willingness to come up with innovative ways to keep our country’s most sensitive information secure. Last week’s announcement of an email data breach at the State Department demonstrates that we can’t wait any longer to implement a program that will be responsive to ever-changing cyber threats and vulnerabilities.” ###
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), House Armed Services Ranking Member Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA), Congressman John Garamendi (D-CA), Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) introduced the bicameral Hold the LYNE—or Low-Yield Nuclear Explosive—Act. The legislation would prohibit the research, development, production and deployment of a low-yield nuclear warheads for submarine-launched ballistic missiles. So-called low-yield nuclear weapons have the potential to lower the threshold for using nuclear weapons and increase the risk of entering the U.S. into nuclear war. Upon introduction, Rep. Lieu said: “There’s no such thing as a low-yield nuclear war. Use of any nuclear weapon, regardless of its killing power, could be catastrophically destabilizing. It opens the door for severe miscalculation and could drag the U.S. and our allies into a devastating nuclear conflict. That’s why Reps. Smith, Garamendi and Blumenauer, and Sen. Markey in the Senate, introduced the Hold the LYNE Act, to ensure we won’t lower our standards for launching a nuclear weapon.” Upon introduction, Rep. Smith said: “We should not fund President Trump’s request for new low-yield nuclear weapons. His proposal dangerously lowers the threshold to nuclear use and siphons money away from genuine military readiness needs. We already have a nuclear deterrent that is more than adequate to achieve our national security goals. Funding new, low-yield weapons would only draw us further into an unnecessary nuclear arms race and increase the risks of miscalculation.” Upon introduction, Rep. Garamendi said: “I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this critical piece of legislation. My previous efforts to prohibit the authorization and funding to develop a low-yield nuclear warhead for the Trident D5 submarine-launched ballistic missile were narrowly defeated. These unnecessary warheads will increase the risk of nuclear war and further fuel a dangerous arms race. Furthermore, we’re already on track to spend over $1.2 trillion over the next thirty years to modernize and maintain our current nuclear arsenal, and that figure does not take into account these new weapons. Both I and my colleagues remain concerned about the direction our nuclear forces are headed, which is why we have joined efforts in introducing this important bill.” Upon introduction, Rep. Blumenauer said: “Despite their misleading name, so-called ‘low-yield’ nuclear weapons are highly destabilizing and increase the likelihood of nuclear war. We should abandon our focus on outdated Cold War tactics and focus on the strategic challenges we face today, including accounting for the irresponsible spending on weapons we can’t afford to build and the world can’t afford for us to use.” Upon introduction, Sen. Markey said: “Developing a ‘low-yield’ nuclear warhead for America’s ballistic missile submarine fleet is the height of fiscal and political folly. There is no military requirement for this weapon. Its indistinguishability from any other submarine-launched nuclear weapon risks a miscalculation. Its development is just a further example of how the Trump administration is surrendering decades of American leadership that have helped move the world away from the dangers posed by nuclear weapons. A nuclear weapon is a nuclear weapon, and the Trump administration’s attempts to market a new one are ill-advised and dangerous.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL Additional support for the Hold the LYNE Act: “I applaud Representatives Smith and Lieu for their leadership on this crucial issue. There is no need for new so-called ‘low-yield’ warheads, and building them would lower the nuclear threshold and make the use of nuclear weapons more likely. These dangerous, unjustified, and redundant nuclear weapons are a gateway to a nuclear catastrophe.” –Former Secretary of Defense William Perry The LYNE Act is also supported by: Arms Control Association, Global Zero, Union of Concerned Scientists, Ploughshares, Win Without War, Peace Action, Council for a Livable World, Friends Committee on National Legislation, Beyond the Bomb, Tri-Valley CARES, Physicians for Social Responsibility-Los Angeles, Physicians for Social Responsibility, Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility, Women’s Action for New Directions, Lawyers Committee for Nuclear Policy, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, Beyond Nuclear, Rocky Flats Right to Know, The Peace Farm, Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom (Middle East and Disarmament Committees), Nuclear Watch South, Our Developing World, Southwest Research and Information Center, Concerned Citizens for Nuclear Safety, Federation of American Scientists and Nuclear Watch New Mexico. -- In January 2017, Rep. Lieu and Sen. Markey re-introduced H.R. 669 and S. 200, the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act. First introduced in the 114th Congress, this legislation would prohibit the President from launching a nuclear first strike without a declaration of war by Congress. H.R. 669 currently has 82 co-sponsors in the House. ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after voting against funding to develop a new low-yield nuclear weapon. The funding, which was included in a minibus spending bill package, appropriated $65 million for developing and producing a low-yield nuclear warhead. The so-called tactical weapon could lower the threshold for using nuclear weapons and increase the risk of grave error. “Today, I voted against expanding the U.S. nuclear arsenal because I could not vote for final passage of a bill that would make nuclear war easier. Without this provision, I would’ve gladly voted for this spending bill and I sincerely appreciate Democratic Leadership’s hard work to come up with a bill with so many strong provisions. My decision to vote no comes down to my concern that funding the development of low-yield nuclear weapons with no established need or strategy puts us at greater risk for catastrophe.” ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) announced the creation of the California Aerospace Caucus. The Caucus will provide educational opportunities and information on matters affecting the aerospace industry and the implications for California’s economy. The caucus will promote outreach to the aerospace community, local stakeholders and constituents and work on legislative actions that support California’s aerospace industry and workers. “I’m delighted to launch the California Aerospace Caucus with Rep. Calvert," Rep. Lieu said. "Our state is light years ahead when it comes to aerospace technology—making our country safer and our technology more innovative. California’s aerospace pioneers are bettering our understanding of the world and beyond, and helping our national security. I’m thrilled to be in the same orbit as so many smart folks working in aerospace and I look forward to joining my California colleagues to support our aerospace industry and workers.” “California has a proud tradition of making invaluable contributions to the success of the American aerospace industry,” Rep. Calvert said. “Supporting our aerospace innovators and manufacturers in California has and should always be a bipartisan effort. That’s why I’m pleased to join with my California Aerospace Caucus co-chair Ted Lieu and fellow Caucus members to launch this new and exciting effort.” "I commend the California Aerospace Caucus for taking up this cause - so profoundly important to our wellbeing and even to our very existence," said California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. The founding members of the California Aerospace Caucus are: Rep. Ted Lieu, Rep. Ken Calvert, Rep. Duncan Hunter, Rep. Juan Vargas, Rep. Norma Torres, Rep. Lou Correa, Rep. Nanette Barragan, Rep. Paul Cook, Rep. Steve Knight, Rep. Julia Brownley, Rep. Mark Takano, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, Rep. John Garamendi, Rep. Karen Bass, Rep. Jimmy Panetta, Rep. Susan Davis, Rep. Eric Swalwell, Rep. Ro Khanna, Rep. Adam Schiff, Rep. Linda Sanchez, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Rep. Scott Peters, Rep. Tony Cardenas, Rep. Mark DeSaulnier, Rep. Brad Sherman, Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, Rep. Salud Carbajal and Rep. Jimmy Gomez ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) introduced the E. Scott Pruitt Accountability for Government Officials Act of 2018. The bill honors the legacy of former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt by increasing the criminal penalties for public officials who use their office for private gain. “A proclivity for corruption feels like a prerequisite for a cabinet position in the Trump Administration. The Executive Branch isn’t some get rich quick scheme, but many Trump cabinet officials sure act like it. The drip, drip, drip of grifting from Trump’s appointees is corroding our Democracy by undermining faith in our institutions. That’s why I’m introducing the E. Scott Pruitt Accountability for Government Officials Act, which will help ensure that cabinet officials and other senior public servants can’t use their public office for personal gain. If the Trump Administration’s culture of corruption has taught us anything, it’s that we need better checks in place to prohibit public officials from using the government as their personal piggy banks. Thank you to President Trump, as well as former and current Trump Administration officials like EPA Administrator Pruitt, HHS Secretary Price and Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner, for their trailblazing work to deepen our understanding of the many types of public corruption.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL HERE ###
09.11.2018	LOS ANGELES – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) commemorates the 17th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and remembers those who lost their lives at the Pentagon, the World Trade Center and in Shanksville, PA. Earlier in the day, Rep. Lieu spoke at an assembly at Robinson Elementary School to honor those who served and continue to serve our country. “Today, we remember the thousands of people who perished on Sept. 11, and honor the first responders who lost their lives trying to save as many people as they could. After that horrible day, our nation came together to mourn and reaffirm our commitment to the values that make America great: hope, justice and compassion. Seventeen years later, our country is safer and stronger thanks to the combined efforts of the communities and federal, state and local governments, who tirelessly work together to uphold our shared ideals. ” ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles) and Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY) introduced the bipartisan U.S.-Israel Directed Energy Cooperation Act. The legislation authorizes the Department of Defense to carry out bilateral cooperation with Israel to develop directed energy capabilities that address threats to both nations. Upon introduction, Rep. Lieu said: “Directed energy technologies like high-powered lasers and microwaves will be game-changers for our national defense, drastically improving our ability to counter ballistic missiles and other major threats. The U.S. should be leveraging all available expertise to bring these tools to bear. I am proud to introduce the U.S.-Israel Directed Energy Cooperation Act with Rep. Stefanik to support bilateral collaboration with our ally Israel, another leader in directed energy research.” Upon introduction, Rep. Stefanik said: “In order to protect our nation and our interests, we must collaborate with our allies to effectively counter a range of adversarial threats we face around the globe. I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation that increases U.S.-Israel cooperation on directed energy technology to help ensure greater security for the United States and Israel. Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East, and through greater cooperation we can more effectively combat threats facing our two nations.” In 2017, the Department of Defense issued a report to Congress on the merits of U.S.-Israel cooperation on directed energy, concluding that, “The United States should pursue joint collaboration with Israel on directed energy capabilities.” In 2018, Michael Griffin, Undersecretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, discussed the future of directed energy weapons at the Directed Energy Summit. According to media coverage, the Undersecretary conveyed that, “America should also take advantage of the brain power that traditional U.S. allies and partners can offer in the development of these technologies so they can be developed together.” READ THE TEXT OF THE BILL ###
09.03.2018	LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in recognition of Labor Day. “This Labor Day we honor and celebrate the incredible triumphs of those who have fought tirelessly on behalf of workers. Thanks to their efforts, our workplaces are safer and fairer for employees. Against incredible odds, labor activists organized and fought back against institutional worker disenfranchisement, ensuring that workers had a voice at the bargaining table. In order to celebrate their bravery, on this Labor Day, I am highlighting three individuals whose work has improved the lives of American workers for generations.” A. Philip Randolph A. Philip Randolph was a champion of African American labor rights in the 20th century. He was a vocal opponent of discrimination in the armed forces and was a successful union organizer. Randolph founded the first successful predominantly black trade union in American history. On behalf of the union, Randolph defended the labor rights of countless African Americans, eventually pressuring President Roosevelt to sign an executive order to prohibit discrimination in defense industries. Randolph pushed for desegregation of the military and convinced President Truman to desegregate the military in 1948. He is also remembered as one of the architects of the March on Washington in 1963, the setting for Martin Luther King Jr.’s famous ‘I have a dream’ speech. Randolph continued to advocate for equality throughout his life on behalf of numerous organizations, even founding the jobs training center: the A. Philip Randolph Institute. Dolores Huerta Dolores Huerta was an impactful political activist and labor leader. She was a staunch advocate for the labor rights of agricultural workers and the economic advancement of Latinos. She created the Agricultural Workers Association (AWA) and co-founded what would eventually turn into the United Farm Workers (UFW) with Cesar Chavez. Huerta helped organize the Delano grape strike in California and served as the primary negotiator for the new worker contracts. She also went on to organize a national lettuce boycott that would eventually lead to the passage of the 1975 Agricultural Labor Relations Act. Frances Perkins Frances Perkins was the first woman to hold a seat in the Presidential Cabinet, serving as Secretary of Labor under President Roosevelt for 12 years. Before serving Labor Secretary, Perkins spearheaded progressive labor reform in New York, prompted by the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire that killed 146 garment workers. As Labor Secretary, Perkins played a major role in executing the New Deal, fighting for set minimum wages, pension programs, unemployment insurance and restrictions on child labor. Perkins also drafted the Social Security Act of 1935 and remained a civil servant until 1952. ###
08.30.2018	LOS ANGELES – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after meeting this week with employees at the Victorville Federal Prison, where between 400 and 1,000 undocumented immigrants have been held, and the Adelanto Detention Center, where over 1,800 detainees are held. Congressman Lieu is a member of the House Judiciary Committee which has jurisdiction over immigration and prison-related issues. “It’s our moral and legal responsibility to ensure anyone who steps foot in this country is guaranteed their fundamental human rights. We’ve seen that the Trump Administration is unwilling to meet this very basic standard, from ripping children away from their parents to not providing adequate health care to some detainees. Everyone deserves their dignity and what is happening at Victorville federal prison is deeply troubling. I will be following up with the leadership of the Federal Bureau of Prisons to demand answers and change. After meeting with detainees at Adelanto, it became clear to me that there aren’t enough volunteer lawyers for the number of detained immigrants. Many do not have legal representation for their asylum hearing. I urge lawyers to consider doing pro bono work helping detainees." About Congressman Lieu’s Oversight Visit: On August 27, Congressman met with employees of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) Victorville penitentiary to learn about the conditions of the facilities in which immigrant detainees are housed and about the treatment and services they receive. The Victorville prison holds more than 4,000 individuals including at least 400 undocumented immigrants. While designed to house criminals, the BOP entered into an agreement with ICE to begin housing immigrant detainees following the implementation of the Trump Administration’s immigration policies. Congressman Lieu met with prison employees and John Kostelink, the President of AFGE Local 3969, and heard from them about how they felt the prison was unprepared to accommodate immigrant detainees. The prison employees communicated that they lack sufficient staff to handle the influx of detainees. They stated they have had to shift staff away from being in a position to respond to disturbances at the maximum security penitentiary, thereby reducing public safety. Moreover, according to the employees, Victorville only has two general doctors (with one of them doing administrative duties) and multiple people have contracted chicken pox and scabies. Rep. Lieu also visited the Adelanto detention center, which houses over 1,800 immigrant detainees. During his visit to the facility, Congressman Lieu and his staff toured both the West and East wings, viewing the courtrooms, interview rooms, housing units, and dining and recreation areas. He met with female and male detainees who raised concerns about their medical care and ability to communicate with family members. Some detainees indicated that they had been retaliated against for making their concerns known to other Members of Congress. Many of them do not have a lawyer. ###
08.22.2018	LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman, Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after President Donald J. Trump's former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, was convicted of eight counts of financial crimes and President Trump's personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, pleaded guilty to eight criminal counts including tax fraud and campaign finance violations. "The respective guilty plea and guilty verdict for two close associates of the President, Paul Manafort and Michael Cohen, would’ve been enough to end a presidency in another era. But today we have a Republican-controlled Congress that has abdicated its constitutional responsibility to conduct effective oversight of the executive branch. You have various Republican Members of Congress arguing that self-dealing at taxpayer expense, sweetheart deals for rich friends, and collusion with hostile foreign powers are normal ways of doing government business. They’re not. It’s emblematic of Trump’s culture of corruption and every one of us should be outraged. The guilty plea and conviction is a testament to the strength of our institutions and is a monumental reaffirmation of the rule of law. No one—not the President, not his employees, not his friends—is above the law. Earlier this year, Rep. Kathleen Rice and I called for an investigation into Michael Cohen’s payments to silence those with embarrassing stories about then-candidate Trump. As former prosecutors, we believed those actions were felony campaign finance violations. Michael Cohen’s guilty plea shows we were right. Now is the time for Congress to act. The Republican-controlled House Judiciary Committee must hold hearings on whether the President directed his lawyer to commit campaign finance violations like the plea suggests. This shouldn’t be a partisan issue because it comes down to what’s right and what’s wrong. Now is the time for House GOP Members to remember they took an oath to the Constitution, not to a political party or to Trump.” ###
08.21.2018	LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced it would replace the Clean Power Plan with the Affordable Clean Energy rule, thereby allowing coal-burning plants to remain active as the primary producer of greenhouse gases. “The Trump Administration’s relentless corruption and full-throated concessions to dirty fuel interests are ruining our planet. By nixing the Clean Power Plan, the Trump Administration is creating a public health crisis that they even admit could lead to up to 1,400 premature deaths annually by 2030. Trump’s shameless attacks on our environment will alter the world as we know it and could literally kill people. If his goal is to boost the economy, this will have the opposite effect. There’s no mincing words: making our air and water dirtier will not create jobs. In fact, our economy will suffer as exposure to pollution will likely lead to more missed days of work and an increase in healthcare costs. Generations could suffer because of this terrible decision.” ###
08.14.2018	LOS ANGELES – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to the Department of Defense Inspector General calling for an investigation into whether U.S. personnel supporting Saudi and Emeriti coalition operations in Yemen are violating DoD regulations, the Law of Armed Conflict, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, federal statutes or international law. The letter comes after a Saudi-led airstrike hit a school bus in Yemen last week. Rep. Lieu has long called for more scrutiny into the coalition’s actions in Yemen, questioning the U.S.’s efforts to ensure Saudi and Emeriti forces are actively mitigating civilian casualties and avoiding worsening the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In the letter, Rep. Lieu writes: I write in regards to the ethical and legal implications for Department of Defense (DoD) personnel who support the Saudi and UAE Coalition operating in Yemen. The Coalition has repeatedly hit civilian targets—including schools, hospitals, funerals & weddings—nowhere near military targets. I previously served on active duty as a JAG and a number of the Coalition’s airstrikes look like war crimes. I am deeply concerned that continued support by the U.S. could put our personnel in ethical and legal jeopardy of aiding and abetting war crimes. As you may know, Congress recently passed into law the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, which includes a requirement that the Secretary of Defense review whether the Armed Forces or coalition partners of the United States violated Federal law or DoD policy while conducting operations in Yemen. However, given the legal and political complexities surrounding U.S. involvement in the conflict and the administration’s failure to adequately address the concerns raised by Members of Congress, I believe a separate, independent review by your office is warranted. If the coalition’s targeting of farms, food storage sites, and water sites was deliberate, these airstrikes would constitute a violation of Article 14 of Additional Protocol II and customary international law in non-international armed conflict. International humanitarian law prohibits warring parties from carrying out attacks on objects that are indispensable to the civilian population or from using starvation as a method of warfare. Warring parties must allow and facilitate the rapid passage of humanitarian aid for civilians in need and ensure the freedom of movement of humanitarian workers. The Saudi-led coalition has unnecessarily hindered the delivery of humanitarian aid and the free movement of aid workers, damaged or destroyed objects indispensable to the survival of the civilian population and, in November, closed all entry and exit points to Yemen, immediately and predictably exacerbating existing food shortages in Yemen. I am deeply concerned that continued U.S. refueling, operational support functions, and weapons transfers could qualify as aiding and abetting these potential war crimes, placing our own troops and officials in serious legal jeopardy. Under customary international law, responsibility for aiding and abetting can be established on the basis of “knowing that such act had the substantial likelihood of assisting the underlying offense.” Ryan Goodman, former Special Counsel at the Department of Defense, has noted that the Department’s own regulations and judicial findings from the Guantanamo hearings also support the notion that aiding and abetting war crimes requires only knowledge that support could assist a potential crime—not direct intent on the part of the abettor to achieve the criminal result. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE Congressman Lieu’s previous work on Yemen: In July 2018, Rep. Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) sent a letter [lieu.house.gov] to Senate and House Armed Services Committee leaders to express support for a National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) provision that would establish certification requirements for U.S. assistance to Gulf partners operating in Yemen. In December 2017, President Donald J. Trump signed the 2018 NDAA, which included two provisions on Yemen that Rep. Lieu authored, into law. . Congressman Lieu authored provisions that will bring critical congressional oversight to the conflict in Yemen for the first time. Sec. 1265 requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. Sec. 1275 requires the President to submit a detailed report that contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. In July 2017, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Lieu’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 that requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen to avoid civilian casualties. In May 2017, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) called on House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce to review the proposed sale of precision-guided munitions to Saudi Arabia. Congressman Lieu also introduced legislation to place conditions on all air-to-ground munitions sales to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The three conditions relate to avoiding civilian casualties, facilitating humanitarian aid, and targeting U.S.-designated terrorist organizations such as AQAP and ISIS. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu led a letter with a bipartisan group of 30 Members of Congress to Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson requesting information related to the operational conduct of the Royal Saudi Air Force in Yemen. In November 2016, Congressman Lieu led the Lantos Human Rights Commission in holding a hearing on the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In August 2016, Congressman Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The letter raised concerns regarding the Saudi-led Coalition’s killing of civilians. Previously, Congressman Lieu had repeatedly raised similar concerns, sending letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter. He also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia. ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) announces the passage of a Yemen oversight provision, which he originally introduced as an amendment with Representative Ted Yoho, in the final 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Sec. 1290 requires the White House to certify to Congress that the Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates led military Coalition is making a good faith effort to avoid civilian casualties, support diplomatic efforts and take measures to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. Rep. Lieu has long called for increased oversight of operations in Yemen, and has repeatedly expressed concern over the Coalition’s limited efforts to avoid civilian causalties and mitigate the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. Since entering Congress, Rep. Lieu has been highly critical of the U.S.’s liability in supporting a Coalition that may be violating international law and the Law of War. “I’m glad we’re going to be able to hold our Coalition partners accountable for any failures to protect civilians in Yemen. Because the U.S. is providing military and other support for the Coalition, we have a duty to ensure the Coalition is complying with international laws and the Law of War. For years I’ve been calling on U.S. officials to conduct more stringent oversight over Coalition operations, which have contributed to the still-worsening humanitarian crisis in Yemen. I am grateful that Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee Adam Smith advocated for this provision and that the House and Senate are in agreement over its necessity.” Congressman Lieu’s previous work on Yemen: In July 2018, Rep. Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) sent a letter to Senate and House Armed Services Committee leaders to express support for a National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) provision that would establish certification requirements for U.S. assistance to Gulf partners operating in Yemen. In December 2017, President Donald J. Trump signed the 2018 NDAA, which included two provisions on Yemen that Rep. Lieu authored, into law. . Congressman Lieu authored provisions that will bring critical congressional oversight to the conflict in Yemen for the first time. Sec. 1265 requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. Sec. 1275 requires the President to submit a detailed report that contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. In July 2017, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Lieu’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 that requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen to avoid civilian casualties. In May 2017, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) called on House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce to review the proposed sale of precision-guided munitions to Saudi Arabia. Congressman Lieu also introduced legislation to place conditions on all air-to-ground munitions sales to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The three conditions relate to avoiding civilian casualties, facilitating humanitarian aid, and targeting U.S.-designated terrorist organizations such as AQAP and ISIS. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu led a letter with a bipartisan group of 30 Members of Congress to Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson requesting information related to the operational conduct of the Royal Saudi Air Force in Yemen. In November 2016, Congressman Lieu led the Lantos Human Rights Commission in holding a hearing on the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In August 2016, Congressman Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The letter raised concerns regarding the Saudi-led Coalition’s killing of civilians. Previously, Congressman Lieu had repeatedly raised similar concerns, sending letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter. He also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia. ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) introduced a resolution condemning Vladimir Putin’s attack on United States officials with Reps. Walter B. Jones (R-NC) and Joaquin Castro (D-TX). The bipartisan resolution underscores the importance of defending U.S. officials from Russian President Vladimir Putin’s threats and emphasizes the U.S.’s commitment to combating Russia’s harmful attacks on our democracy. “The false equivalence between Vladimir Putin’s baseless conspiracy theories about alleged crimes, designed to sow discord, and the thorough, meticulous work of the United States intelligence community and Department of Justice to indict Russian operatives undermines the integrity of the Office of the President and the United States legal system: Now, therefore be it resolved that the House of Representatives: Condemns Vladimir Putin’s transparent attempt to undermine the rule of law and attack individual United States officials; Calls upon the Administration to immediately and firmly reject Vladimir Putin’s proposal and demand unconditional access to the 12 Russian intelligence officials indicted for attacking the United States; Expresses steadfast support for the current and former United States officials singled out by the government of Vladimir Putin; and Reaffirms that the United States should refuse to make available any current or former diplomatic, civil servant, political appointee, law enforcement official, or member of the Armed Forced of the united States for questioning by the government of Vladimir Putin” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE RESOLUTION HERE ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Ted Yoho (R-FL) sent a letter to Senate and House Armed Services Committee leaders to express support for a National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) provision that would establish certification requirements for U.S. assistance to Gulf partners operating in Yemen. The Senate version of the NDAA included Section 1266 (Certifications Regarding Actions by Saudi Arabia in Yemen), which was based on bipartisan legislation reported favorably by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in May 2018. In the letter, the Members write: After more than three years of war between the Saudi-led Coalition and the Houthis, Yemen today is the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. More than 22 million people, or three-quarters of the population, require some form of humanitarian aid. Earlier this year, the United Nations Panel of Experts on Yemen concluded that both sides of the conflict have committed numerous violations of humanitarian law. On the part of the Coalition, these violations are part of a years-long air campaign that has repeatedly failed to distinguish between civilian and military targets, resulting in thousands of civilian deaths. While we also condemn the deplorable conduct of the Houthi rebels, the U.S. has a moral, legal, and strategic responsibility to hold our Gulf partners—who we actively support with midair refueling, training, and intelligence-sharing—to our own high standards and national interests. We fully appreciate our Gulf partners’ security concerns and support efforts to eliminate ballistic missile batteries, stop the flow of arms smuggling and combat Iranian involvement. But pursuing those objectives should not come at the expense of the Law of Armed Conflict, the delivery of humanitarian aid, or the vital diplomacy required to end the conflict. These are basic requirements that every U.S. partner who receives our military assistance should be able to meet. Since the addition of Section 1266 to the legislation, the Coalition began a new operation to capture the port city of Hodeidah, prompting more than 121,000 people to flee and humanitarian groups to raise the alarm about the grave impact of continuing down this path. The Coalition has thankfully paused the operation to allow for U.N.-led negotiations to take place. The inclusion of Section 1266 will send an important signal of U.S. expectations of the Coalition at this critical stage. Finally, we urge the Committee to consider strengthening Section 1266 with the following additions: Cover all major parties: The certification should be broadened to cover all Gulf partners involved in Yemen, including the United Arab Emirates and the internationally-recognized Government of Yemen. Certify results, not intent: Rather than a certification of our Gulf partners’ intent to avoid civilian harm, the certification should be based on results. We recommend that Section (c)(4) be re-phrased to: “demonstrable actions that reduce harm to civilians and civilian infrastructure resulting from its military operations in Yemen…” Require the sharing of airstrike information: As a condition for providing mid-air refueling services and targeting assistance, we recommend a certification be added to ensure the Coalition is providing the U.S. with the targets, collateral damage estimates, and battle damage assessments of all airstrikes supported by U.S. refueling or intelligence. This simple requirement for the sharing of information the Coalition already produces will give the U.S. military greater insight into the performance of the Coalition. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D-NY) issued the following statement after the FBI charged Russian national Mariia Butina with being an unregistered foreign agent. The FBI alleges that Butina attempted to establish a back channel of communication with American politicians, and allegedly used the National Rifle Association (NRA) as a conduit. In May, Reps. Lieu and Rice sent a letter to the FBI calling for an investigation into Russian influence on the NRA. “This indictment is significant but not shocking given all we know about Russia’s efforts to influence our elections. It alleges that Russian actors attempted to infiltrate the NRA and make contact with the Trump campaign. A foreign entity that gains access to a powerful political organization to sway the outcomes of elections threatens the very underpinnings of our democracy. That’s exactly why we called on FBI Director Wray to investigate Kremlin ties to the NRA in May. Today, our President denied that Russia interfered in our election even though 27 Russian nationals have already been indicted in the Special Counsel’s investigation. As former prosecutors, we’re keenly aware that this doesn’t represent some simple coincidence. Something bad happened in 2016 and every day that we in Congress fail to hold Russia and this Administration accountable is another day they can chip away at our country’s institutions.” ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after President Trump met with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Finland. "What Trump did today was utterly shameful, and a slap in the face to the professionals in the Department of Justice and our intelligence community. Today we watched a U.S. President offer total deference to a hostile foreign power while attacking U.S. institutions. By refusing to admit that Russia attacked our Democracy, or that Russia did anything wrong whatsoever, Trump is disturbingly regurgitating the Kremlin's talking points. Having served on active duty, I feel nauseous thinking about Trump's statements. Despite how desensitized we’ve become to Trump’s remarkably un-presidential actions, today should stand out as obscene. What happens next will determine whether we allow our President to cede American ideals and authority to a foreign power. We’re now at a crossroads where we have to decide whether we’re willing to let blind partisan loyalty to Trump lead to the debasing of our country. After this appalling display, will the Republicans finally stand up for America?” ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Department of Justice announced the indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officers for conspiring to interfere with the 2016 election. President Trump is due to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday. "These indictments tell us what virtually everyone in the government, except the President and his enablers, has already known: Russia is an adversary of the United States. It is shockingly unacceptable that the President plans to meet with Vladimir Putin next week, especially in light of these indictments. He needs to cancel the meeting. Trump has a bizarre soft spot for Putin so we can expect any meeting to be inappropriately congenial even though Russia’s hostility towards the U.S. is well documented. Trump cannot claim to love the U.S. while meeting with the man who is overseeing an all-out attack on America’s democracy. It is a dereliction of duty for the House Judiciary Committee to do nothing to examine this threat. Instead of stupid hearings re-litigating the Clinton email investigation, the Judiciary Committee needs to spend its time ensuring our future elections are free of Russian meddling. We should be ensuring that the Trump Administration is doing all it can to guarantee our future elections are free and fair. Otherwise, we’re ceding our country to a hostile foreign power.“ ###
07.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County), Gerald E. Connolly (D | Virginia), and Dina Titus (D | Nevada) sent a letter to House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce requesting a hearing on reports that the North Korean regime is stepping up its production of nuclear missles. In the letter, the Members write: We are very concerned by recent reports on efforts by the North Korean regime to expand production of nuclear fuel; to make improvements to missile facilities; and to deceive the United States during the course of ongoing negotiations. In the lead-up to the President’s discussions with Kim Jong Un, arms control experts expressed repeated concerns that North Korea was likely operating undisclosed enrichment facilities aside from the disclosed facility at Yongbyon. The classified defense assessment not only confirms these assessments, but indicates that enrichment activity has ramped up. As the Committee of jurisdiction, we would be responsible for a potential winding down of sanctions on North Korea and for approving any other “sweeteners” agreed to as part of a comprehensive deal. It is vital to our continued oversight that the Committee hear from the Administration on these concerning revelations and their assessment of ongoing discussions. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
07.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representatives Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Don Beyer (D-Virginia) wrote to the Environmental Protection Agency Inspector General to request an investigation into whether Scott Pruitt violated the Federal Records Act. The letter cited recent reports that Pruitt intentionally hid or falsified records of meetings and discussions with representatives of industries regulated by the EPA. The lawmakers wrote: “We write regarding new allegations that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt intentionally hid or falsified records of meetings and discussions with representatives of industries regulated by the EPA. These allegations, made publicly by one of the Administrator’s former senior aides, are supported by analyses of his public calendars. We request an immediate investigation to determine whether the Administrator violated the Federal Records Act… Congress established and updated these laws because the American people deserve to know how their government is operated, and who is exerting influence over determinations which affect them. We ask that you protect that public trust, and establish whether Administrator Scott Pruitt violated the Federal Records Act, and if so, determine what he concealed and why. Further, we ask that you take the appropriate steps to hold him accountable for such actions, as required by law.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
06.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) led a letter of 51 Members calling for the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General to open an investigation regarding reports that asylum-seekers are being turned away at the U.S.-Mexico border before being referred to an asylum officer. They also expressed dismay at Trump Administration policies that could compel families to choose between pursuing legal asylum claims or being reunited and then deported. In the letter, the Members write: It has become increasingly evident that the Department of Homeland Security is turning away individuals seeking asylum at U.S. ports of entry. In May 2017, Human Rights First published a report that documented 125 cases of families and individuals who were denied an opportunity to pursue their asylum claims at a port of entry. This month, The Washington Post reported a story of a Guatemalan father and son who were blocked from the port of entry on the Paso del Norte Bridge at the Texas border. In some cases families are turned back because the agency purportedly lacks sufficient resources to process them. In other instances it appears that CBP officers are simply hostile to migrants, falsely telling them that the United States is not welcoming asylum seekers. Further troubling are reports that CBP officers have improperly evaluated asylum claims or have forced asylum seekers to recant their fears. The aforementioned Human Rights First report alleges that CBP officers have falsely indicated on forms that certain individuals have not expressed a fear of return, writing instead that they have come to the United States for work. The organization also documented a case in which CBP officers repeatedly pressured a Mexican woman to recant her fear of return and indicated she would not be granted asylum. CBP officers are not trained in asylum law and should not be evaluating asylum claims. They should instead refer asylum seekers to United States Citizenship and Immigration Services asylum officers; however, it appears that too often CBP agents fail to refer these cases. Finally, we are worried by the recently-announced Department of Homeland Security fact sheet about zero-tolerance prosecution and family reunification. This document states that parents who are being deported may request to have their child accompany them. This policy will likely encourage detained parents to drop not only their own but also their children’s asylum claims in hope of being reunited. Families should never have to choose between reunification and their legal right to seek refuge in this country. We urge you to immediately open an investigation into the Department of Homeland Security’s potentially illegal treatment of asylum seekers at the southwest border, including the denial of access to asylum procedures, the pressure to recant fears of return and the implementation of a policy that incentivizes asylum seekers to forfeit their claims in order to be reunited with their children. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today denounced the Republican-led House Judiciary Committee after it voted along party lines to block the passage of H. Res. 928, their Resolution of Inquiry that would impose proper oversight of Donald Trump’s abuse of the pardon power. Following the committee hearing on the resolution, Pascrell and Lieu issued a joint statement: “Donald Trump’s abuse of his pardon power continues to represent a danger to our constitutional foundations. In virtually no other domestic area is the President’s power so unrestrained. Individual pardons are not subject to judicial review, and so the executive holds life-and-death authority at the stroke of a pen. Based on his actions, this power has clearly enamored a man who once played an executive on the television. Through pardons, the law gets to be what the President says it is. By pardoning unrepentant felons and racists, as well as anyone famous enough to grab his ear, Donald Trump is abusing that power and contemplating terrifying further ignominies. “In ordinary times, such acts alone might be considered impeachable offenses or at the least the focus of intense scrutiny. But 286 congressional Republicans have said nary a word. And today, congressional Republicans have chosen, yet again, to look the other way to rampant corruption in this administration. That corruption is eating away at the bedrocks of this republic that have been laid and repeatedly fortified, regardless of party, for 242 years. We do not accept it. We will continue to exercise every tool at our disposal to stop this debasement. This fight isn’t over.” Background: The Lieu/Pascrell Resolution of Inquiry directed the Attorney General Jeff Sessions to provide to the House of Representatives any documents, recordings, memos, records, or other communications relating to any pardon Donald Trump has issued or has considered issuing, including those potentially involving Michael Cohen, Paul Manafort, Mike Flynn, George Papadopoulos, and anyone else including Trump’s family and himself. Resolutions of Inquiry are one of the methods used by the House to obtain information from the executive branch. The House traditionally ‘‘requests’’ the President and ‘‘directs’’ the heads of executive departments to furnish information. The House Judiciary Committee has 14 legislative days from its introduction to consider the resolution. In this instance, the committee acted to take up the resolution for consideration. Had they not, either favorably or unfavorably, the resolution is sent to the House floor for consideration. Article II, Section 2 of the U.S Constitution posits that the President “shall have Power to Grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offenses against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.” This allows the President to free any American from federal criminal liability, as well as commute sentences or restore rights diminished by conviction. A pardon can cover past acts and be applied whether a person is under investigation, is on trial, has been convicted, or has long been out of prison. The power is not subject to judicial review. Donald Trump’s exercise of the pardon power so far, and his ruminations of that power, constitute perhaps the most disturbing pattern of his presidency so far. Last August Trump pardoned the former sheriff of Arizona’s largest county, Joe Arpaio, following his conviction for imposing a reign of racial profiling terror against Latinos and for the systematic mistreatment of prisoners in his custody. In April, he pardoned Lewis “Scooter” Libby, the former top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney, who was convicted in 2007 of perjury, lying to FBI agents, and obstruction of justice. And last week, he pardoned right wing commentator Dinesh D’Souza, a well-known race baiter convicted of a campaign finance felony. None of these individuals ever expressed responsibility or contrition – the bedrock requirement for previous administrations to even be considered the honor of a pardon. Trump has mused about using his pardon power to absolve the legal liability his aides and his family members to block possible indictments. He has openly bragged about pardoning himself – an absurd proposition that would elevate the American presidency to the status of a monarch above all laws. As Donald Trump has ramped up his abuse of the pardon power, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee have been increasingly active in highlighting the dangers of Trump’s pardon measures and statements and demanding oversight hearings. This week, Committee Democrats sent a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn demanding information from McGahn on Trump’s pardons and the procedures the White House has gone through in making its pardon decisions. H.Res. 928 constitutes the next step in shining light on the urgency of the pardons issue and the threat Trump’s behavior poses. Last week, Reps. Lieu and Pascrell authored an op-ed in USA Today on the subject last week. ###
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court upheld President Trump’s Muslim travel ban. “Today, the conservative majority of the Supreme Court just legitimized religious animus. It’s a shameful day for our country. We will remember this era as one where our President, fueled by hatred and bigotry, developed regressive policies to challenge, oppress and degrade the vibrancy of our country’s core values. History will not view this decision kindly.” ###
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Anthony Brown (D-MD), both former Judge Advocate Generals (JAGs), sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions urging him to withdraw his request for active duty JAGs to go to the border and prosecute immigration cases. In the midst of the ongoing family separation crisis, Reps. Lieu and Brown oppose this proposal because it is unwise, inefficient and hurts our national security. In the letter, the Members write: There are at least three reasons why you need to withdraw your proposal. First, JAGs are not trained in immigration law. We are trained to prosecute and defend cases under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Directing attorneys who are unfamiliar with immigration laws to prosecute immigration cases on behalf of the government would be unfair to both the United States and the detainees. Second, the JAG Corps is small and already stretched thin. The budget sequestration of the last few years has downsized our military. The recent increases in funding will take time to have an effect. Third, and most importantly, our national security and troops will suffer. The main mission of JAGs is to advice military commanders in fighting our wars. From advising on what targets can be attacked under the law of war, to ensuring contracts in Afghanistan are done properly, to prosecuting sexual assault and other major crimes under the UCMJ to ensure good order and discipline, JAGs play an integral role in our war efforts. Another mission of JAGs is to provide legal assistance to our troops and their families when service members are deployed abroad. Taking JAGs away from their military mission to prosecute misdemeanor immigration cases is a big mistake. Instead of creating new problems for our military, you should focus your efforts on undoing the manufactured crisis you have caused. Simply reverse the policy change you announced earlier this year. Do not take JAGs away from their critical military missions. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) recognized the accomplishments of three residents of California’s 33rd district who earned the Congressional Award Gold Medal for excellence. Established by Congress as a public-private partnership in 1979 under Public Law 96-114, the program encourages and recognizes initiative, service, and achievement in youngsters. Rep. Lieu congratulated the three winners at a ceremony in Washington, D.C. today. Rep. Lieu honored Ishan Guar, of Ranchos Palos Verdes, who volunteered for over 400 hours at Habitat for Humanity; Bryce Palmer-Toy of Agora Hills, who volunteered at his high school’s math tutoring center; and Blake Peters of Santa Monica, who tutored students including middle schoolers at the local Boys and Girls Club. “Congratulations to Ishan, Bryce, Blake and all those who won the Congressional Award today. Their dedication to self-betterment and serving others is deeply admirable. I’m grateful to see that, as our future leaders, their generation is deeply committed to helping communities and making the world a better place.” More about the award: Congressional Award Gold Medalists have contributed over 400 hours of Voluntary Public Service, 200 hours of Personal Development and Physical Fitness hours respectively, and a four consecutive night Expedition or Exploration to earn this honor. The Gold Medal is the pinnacle of The Congressional Award program. Youth between the ages of 13 ½ to 23 are eligible for The Congressional Award - regardless of GPA, socioeconomic status, physical or mental disability, etc. ###
06.19.2018	Today, House Judiciary Committee Member Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) joined Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) in leading more than 190 House Democrats in introducing the “Keep Families Together Act”, legislation that will end family separation at the U.S. border. In addition to Reps. Lieu and Nadler, original House cosponsors of the legislation include: Subcommittee on Immigration Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) and House Democratic leadership. This legislation is the House companion to the legislation introduced by Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Diane Feinstein (D-CA) earlier this month. Upon introduction, Mr. Lieu said: “The Trump-driven policy of separating families at the border is inhumane and un-American. Like the President’s grandfather, my parents—to use Trump’s own phrasing—‘infested’ America. As their son, as a Member of Congress and as a proud American, I get the chance to fight for human decency. That’s what Reps. Nadler, Lofgren, Gutierrez, Jayapal, Panetta and I are pushing for with our ‘Keep Families Together Act’. Trump’s family separation policy runs counter to everything our country stands for and we’ll do everything in our power to stop it. Trump has claimed to need Congressional action to end the separation of parents from their children, an unimaginably cruel policy that he created. Well, here it is. I urge my GOP colleagues to move quickly to pass this bill because their inaction means families and children will continue to suffer.” The Keep Families Together Act would: Keep Families Together: The bill promotes family unity by prohibiting Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances. In these limited circumstances, separation could not occur unless parental rights have been terminated, a child welfare agency has issued a best interest determination, or the Port Director or the Chief Border Patrol agent of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) have approved separation due to trafficking indicators or other concerns of risk to the child. It requires an independent child welfare official to review any such separation and return the child if no harm to the child is present. It imposes financial penalties on officials who violate the prohibition on family separation. Limit Criminal Prosecutions for Asylum Seekers: The majority of the parents separated at the border are being criminally prosecuted for illegal entry or re-entry. This bill restricts the prosecution of parents who are asylum seekers by adopting the recommendation of the DHS Office of Inspector General. The bill delays prosecutions for illegal entry or re-entry for asylum seekers and creates an affirmative defense for asylum seekers. It also codifies our commitment to the Refugee protocol prohibiting the criminal punishment of those seeking protection from persecution. Increase Child Welfare Training: The bill requires all CBP officers and agents to complete child welfare training on an annual basis. Port Directors and Chief Border Agents, those who are authorized to make decisions on family separations, must complete an additional 90 minutes of annual child-welfare training. Establish Public Policy Preference for Family Reunification: The bill establishes a preference for family unity, discourages the separation of siblings, and creates a presumption that detention is not in the best interests of families and children. Add Procedures for Separated Families: The bill requires DHS to develop policies and procedures allowing parents and children to locate each other and reunite if they have been separated. Such procedures must be public and made available in a language that parents can understand. In cases of separation, it requires DHS to provide parents with a weekly report containing information about a child, and weekly phone communication. Establish Other Required Measures: In order to inform Congressional oversight and promote public understanding of the use family separation, the bill requires a report on the separation of families every six months. ###
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Will Hurd (R-TX) sent a letter to the Chief Administrative Officer in the U.S. House of Representative urging him to implement multi-factor authentication (MFA) across House networks and platforms. MFA improves information security and can help reduce the House’s susceptibility to cyberattacks. In the letter, the Members write: We have worked hard to raise awareness about the unique cybersecurity threats facing the United States Congress. Any large, decentralized, and information-rich organization is likely to be the target of attempted intrusions. The House of Representatives, however, is particularly vulnerable to cyberattacks due to its large staff, global visibility, and the unique information its employees hold. As such, we write to you with regard to multi-factor authentication (MFA) and its potential to greatly improve the information security environment in the House. We are deeply grateful for your ongoing work on information security both for on-site digital infrastructure as well as mobile infrastructure. Despite this important work, however, we believe we can and should do more. As you know, MFA is a security measure that requires more than one method of authentication from different categories of credentials in order to access information. For example, a MFA system might require someone to input a password, insert a security token, or submit a biometric scan in order to access a network. Such measures in conjunction with one another can reduce risk while affording organizations flexibility – for example, by allowing the level of access and authentication credentials to fluctuate depending on the type of information that someone is trying to access. Full adoption of multi-factor authentication in the House would be a boon to both U.S. national security as well as the personal security of Members and staff. Below, please find a list of questions we have drafted regarding MFA. Do you believe adoption of multi-factor authentication would improve the information security environment in the House? If so, how would the House uniquely benefit from MFA? What might different forms of MFA look like in practice? Have CAO or CISO taken steps to examine possible implementation of MFA, including exploring relationships with vendors that provide MFA services? What needs to happen, both technically and procedurally, to prepare for MFA adoption in the House? What challenges exist with regard to shifting a large organization toward full adoption of MFA? What unique challenges to adoption would the House face, and how might we overcome them? ###
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - In commemoration of World Refugee Day, Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) will join Members of Congress, Minnesota State Rep. Ilhan Omar, refugees and faith leaders to talk about Congress’s bipartisan commitment to welcome and protect refugees. According to the UN, there are 25.4 million refugees globally but the U.S. has only admitted 14,331 as of May 31, 2018. Reps. Lieu and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) have introduced a resolution to commemorate World Refugee Day and acknowledge the courage, strength, and determination of women, men and children who flee their homes due to conflict, violence and persecution. Who: Rep. Lieu, Members of Congress, Refugees, faith leaders Speakers: Diane Randall, Executive Secretary of the Friends Committee on National Legislation (Quakers) Congressman Ted Lieu (D-CA-33) Congressman Randy Hultren (R-IL14) (invited) Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA-07) (invited) State Rep. Ilhan Omar (MN) Uyen Nguyen, Refugee from Vietnam Deborah Jane, Refugee from Uganda Imam Talib Sharif, Masjid Muhammad, The Nation’s Mosque Rabbi Fred Scherlinder Dobb, Adat Shalom Reconstructionist Congregation Where & When: House Triangle, 11 AM EST on Wednesday, June 20th, 2018 About the refugees speaking at the press conference: Deborah Jane is a former Ugandan refugee who was resettled in Columbus, Ohio. After surviving an acid attack for her work to counter domestic violence in 2014, Deborah left everything behind, including her children and bakery, and fled to Kenya. She was approved for resettlement in 2016, and today she works as a cake decorator and home caregiver for disabled clients. Uyen Nguyen came to the U.S. as a refugee from Vietnam when she was 11 years old. Today, she is a Founding Board Chair for Emerge Washington, an organization that recruit and train women to run for public office; a Board member for PIVOT, a progressive Vietnamese American organization; and WACAP, an organization that finds family for every child. She is a Sister for the Planet Ambassador for Oxfam and also owns Nue, a restaurant specializing in international street food, in Seattle. ###
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after it was reported that the coalition led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates initiated an offensive in the port city of Hodeidah. The port is a major lifeline for Yemen, as the majority of food and aid enters through Hodeidah. In 2018, Rep. Lieu authored two provisions in the National Defense Authorization Act that will bring critical congressional oversight to the conflict in Yemen for the first time. Sec. 1265 requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. Sec. 1275 requires the President to submit a detailed report that contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. "For three years I’ve been calling on U.S. officials to hold the Saudi and Emeriti-led coalition accountable for avoidable civilian casualties in Yemen. I’ve long pushed for better Congressional oversight on the U.S.’s involvement in this conflict, which isn’t any closer to ending. I’ve sought reassurances that the U.S.’s support for the coalition meets humanitarian & law of war standards. But here we are, in the midst of a military attack in the port city of Hodeidah, witnessing an action that the Trump Administration in April explicitly told the coalition not to execute. At this point, the U.S. has a duty to discontinue supporting the coalition’s operations in Yemen. Our continued support makes the U.S. complicit in one of the worst humanitarian crises in history, and possibly complicit with war crimes. The U.N. estimated that this attack alone could claim as many as 250,000 civilian lives. The attack will also worsen the famine and cholera crisis. We cannot continue to endorse such cruel actions by providing support for this coalition." ###
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after President Trump met with North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un in Singapore. "I served on active duty under U.S. Pacific Command, and it was clear then what remains true today: the U.S. has no good military options against North Korea. That is why I’ve been consistent with my support of diplomatic efforts, including this Summit. But those who are certain the Summit was a success and those who are certain it was a failure are both wrong in their certainty. If North Korea fails to live up to its end of the deal as they have done in the past, then this Summit was a failure. If they start to denuclearize in the coming months, then this Summit was a success. What we do know is that the U.S. made the first two concessions: a one on one meeting with the President, and the suspension of military exercises. Now, it’s up to the Trump Administration to ensure North Korea holds up its end of the deal." ###
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today introduced H.Res. 928, a Resolution of Inquiry directing the President and Attorney General to transmit to the House information on the President’s use of the pardon power under Article II of the Constitution. Upon introduction, Reps. Lieu and Pascrell issued the following joint statement: “Donald Trump’s actions constitute an unparalleled danger to the stability of the republic. This is not empty hyperbole. And it is why this Resolution of Inquiry is so critical. In a nation built on the rule of law, the executive pardon is one of the most sacred authorities a President holds. Its power is nearly unchecked and subject to no legal review. It was created by the Framers to be wielded with the greatest care to extend clemency to those deserving of mercy. It was not meant to be a weapon for the President to use to undermine our judiciary. “This President has repeatedly sought to do just that. Demonstrating the seriousness of issuing pardons, the Justice Department uses an elaborate vetting process. Obtaining a pardon is extraordinarily difficult. And it should be. Yet, Donald Trump has dismissed any pretense of process. He has issued pardons to convicted felons who have never expressed contrition. Reports indicate he has openly discussed pardons for former contestants on The Apprentice, his aides, and his family members. On Twitter, he has bragged about holding the power to pardon himself. Democracy is not reality TV. Donald Trump is cheapening our bedrock justice institutions in ways that will make them more vulnerable to misuse and debasement. They reflect a President who sees his office as that of a king who stands above all laws. “Despite these actions, congressional Republicans have refused to exercise a hair of oversight. House Judiciary Committee Democrats have repeatedly called for hearings on pardons and this week wrote to White House Counsel Don McGahn demanding information on the President’s pardon decisions. Our Resolution of Inquiry builds on these efforts. The Resolution would direct Attorney General Jeff Sessions to provide the House with any records relating to any pardon Donald Trump has issued or has considered issuing. It will ensure that the American people learn more about Trump’s abuses of his sacred power before it’s too late.” Additional Background: The Lieu/Pascrell Resolution of Inquiry would ask the White House and direct the Attorney General Jeff Sessions to provide to the House any documents, recordings, memos, records, or other communications relating to any pardon Donald Trump has issued or has considered issuing, including those potentially involving Michael Cohen, Paul Manafort, Mike Flynn, George Papadopoulos, and anyone else including Trump’s family and himself. Resolutions of Inquiry are one of the methods used by the House to obtain information from the executive branch. The House traditionally ‘‘requests’’ the President and ‘‘directs’’ the heads of executive departments to furnish information. The House Judiciary Committee will have 14 legislative days from its introduction to consider the resolution. If the committee has not acted on it within that frame, either favorably or unfavorably, it is sent to the House floor for consideration. Article II, Section 2 of the U.S Constitution posits that the President “shall have Power to Grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offenses against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.” That brevity belies what is expansive authority. The President can free any American from federal criminal liability, as well as commute sentences or restore rights diminished by conviction. A pardon can cover past acts and be applied whether a person is under investigation, is on trial, has been convicted, or has long been out of prison. The power is not subject to judicial review. Donald Trump’s exercise of the pardon power so far, and his ruminations of that power, constitute perhaps the most disturbing pattern of his presidency so far. Last August Trump pardoned the former sheriff of Arizona’s largest county, Joe Arpaio, following his conviction for imposing a reign of racial profiling terror against Latinos and for the systematic mistreatment of prisoners in his custody. In April, he pardoned Lewis “Scooter” Libby, the former top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney, who was convicted in 2007 of perjury, lying to FBI agents, and obstruction of justice. And last week, he pardoned right wing commentator Dinesh D’Souza, a well-known race baiter convicted of a campaign finance felony. None of these men ever expressed a word of responsibility or contrition – the bedrock requirement for one to even be considered the honor of a pardon. Trump has mused about using his pardon power to absolve the legal liability his aides and his family members to block possible indictments. He has openly bragged about pardoning himself – an absurd proposition that would elevate the American presidency to the status of a monarch above all laws. As Donald Trump has ramped up his abuse of the pardon power, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee have been increasingly active in highlighting the dangers of Trump’s pardon measures and statements and demanding oversight hearings. This week, Committee Democrats sent a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn demanding information from McGahn on Trump’s pardons and the procedures the White House has gone through in making its pardon decisions. H.Res. 928 constitutes the next step in shining light on the urgency of the pardons issue and the threat Trump’s behavior poses. ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), Congressman Mike Bishop (R-MI), Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-WA) and Congressman Jim Jordan (R-OH) reintroduced the Ensuring National Constitutional Rights for Your Private Telecommunications (ENCRYPT) Act. The legislation would preempt state and local government encryption laws to ensure a uniform, national policy for the interstate issue of encryption technology. Upon introduction, Mr. Lieu writes: “Any discussion of encryption and law enforcement access to data needs to happen at the federal level. As a computer science major, I can tell you that having 50 different mandatory state-level encryption standards is bad for security, consumers, innovation, and ultimately law enforcement. Encryption exists to protect us from bad actors, and can’t be weakened without also putting every American in harm’s way. I am proud to lead this bipartisan group of Members who understand this is an issue of interstate commerce and economic security as well as cybersecurity. The ENCRYPT Act ensures we can have a national discussion about encryption without compromising consumers’ security in the process.” Upon introduction, Mr. Bishop writes: “The safety of our nation is the number one priority for this Congress, and establishing a pathway for decryption would create new vulnerabilities to be exploited by bad actors. To better protect our information from cyber threats, whether it deals with our nation’s security, commerce or personal data, we need a unified policy. The ENCRPYT Act is a critical first step in adopting a national approach – instead of the patchwork of encryption standards that our tech industry and law enforcement face today.” Upon introduction, Ms. DelBene writes: “Our goal needs to be keeping people’s personal information secure. When 50 states have different laws on encryption, it undermines our efforts to protect innocent Americans from bad actors who are looking to snatch personal data for their own nefarious uses. This legislation strengthens our national security, while ensuring that people’s privacy is protected and advances in technology can continue to flourish.” Upon introduction, Mr. Jordan writes: “We know federal agencies have abused warrantless surveillance in the past. The current patchwork system for encryption makes it easier for further abuses of the system and increases the problem by creating potential opportunities for abuse by 3rd party actors. By creating a unified approach to encryption, we can protect security and privacy while allowing law enforcement to continue keeping us safe. Today’s introduction of the ENCYPT Act is an important step in the right direction.” Support for the ENCRYPT Act: The App Association President Morgan Reed: “On behalf of app developers and tech innovators across the country and around the world, we can attest to the value of encryption technologies to protect data and prevent crimes. The App Association is proud to support the ENCRYPT Act, and we commend Representatives Lieu, Bishop, DelBene, and Jordan for their leadership in reintroducing this timely bill. "The ENCRYPT Act is a necessary step to ensure Americans can use encrypted technologies to protect themselves and their data, regardless of where they live. Encryption protects our most valuable information from nefarious cyber criminals – securing everything from private healthcare data to financial transactions, proprietary business information to the countless interactions that occur throughout the $950 billion global app ecosystem. Weakening encryption through a patchwork of conflicting state policies would jeopardize this protection and create known vulnerabilities that hackers seek to exploit. This legislation establishes national guidelines for the interstate use of encrypted technology and protects the data that drives our local economies and the app economy at large, and we urge Congress to advance these important measures through swift consideration of this important bill." ITI: “Encryption is vital to securing consumers’ private information and protecting them from Cybercriminals. With that said, the level of protection consumers experience should not be determined by the state in which they live. State mandates that either ban strong encryption technology, or require the design of intentional vulnerabilities, are untenable from both a security and policy standpoint. ITI commends Reps. Ted Lieu, Suzan DelBene, Mike Bishop, and Jim Jordan for their leadership on the ENCRYPT Act.” Developers Alliance President/CEO Bruce Gustafson: “The ENCRYPT Act was a great idea in 2016 and it’s an even better one now. Earning the trust and confidence of users is the Software Developer community’s highest priority, and strong encryption is the best way to ensure the privacy and security of user data. There is no such thing as a secure back door; the worst possible future is a patchwork of rules and prohibitions and a ring full of skeleton keys held by every agency and official across 50 states and an untold number of foreign governments. The ENCRYPT Act unambiguously places the Federal Government as the front-line defender of U.S. data security and we strongly support Congressmen Lieu (D-CA), Jim Jordan (R-OH), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), and all co-sponsors for their vision in bringing this legislation forward. Establishing the United States as the global champion of strong encryption is a critical step in securing the nation's ongoing leadership in innovation and entrepreneurship" New America’s Open Technology Institute Policy Counsel and Government Affairs Lead Robyn Greene: “Despite a wave of news stories and an Inspector General report showing that encryption is not the insurmountable obstacle that the FBI, prosecutors, and state and local police claim, the second Crypto War is unrelenting. Law enforcement has lost credibility in this debate, and Congress should reject their continuing calls for legislation to help them break encryption. We welcome the introduction of the ENCRYPT Act as a step toward putting this endless debate over encryption backdoors to bed once and for all.” Engine Executive Director Evan Engstrom: “We applaud the authors of the ENCRYPT Act for working to prevent state and local governments from forcing companies to intentionally weaken the security of their products and services. Undermining encryption would be especially devastating for startups and their users, since they typically lack the resources necessary to protect unencrypted user information. Internet users rely on encryption-enabled startups every day to do things like communicate with loved ones, protect connected devices, and store and share sensitive health, banking, and business information. Weakening encryption will harm those startups and put their users’ sensitive information at risk.” IA President & CEO Michael Beckerman: "The internet industry applauds Rep. Ted Lieu, Rep. Jim Jordan, Rep. Susan DelBene, and Rep. Mike Bishop for reintroducing the ENCRYPT Act. Weakening encryption by requiring companies to engineer vulnerabilities into their devices and services makes us all less safe and less secure. Encryption protects our country from countless threats to the financial system, sensitive infrastructure, and individual privacy. The ENCRYPT Act recognizes the importance of encryption to our national security and daily lives." This bill is also supported by the i2Coalition and Niskanen Center ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), both Members of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, rolled out the bipartisan Driftnet Modernization and Bycatch Reduction Act, which would phase out the use of large mesh drift gillnets off the coast of California and set a path toward more sustainable fishing in the region. The measure is the House companion to S.2773, which was introduced by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Kamala Harris (D-CA), and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV). This week is Capitol Hill Ocean Week, which brings together leaders in marine policy to discuss critical issues impacting oceans and Great Lakes. Upon introduction, Rep. Lieu said: “The practice of drift gillnet fishing is an antiquated method of catching swordfish and sharks. Washington and Oregon already prohibit the use of large mesh drift gillnets because they are harmful to local ecosystems. It is past time to ensure that our precious marine wildlife is adequately protected by phasing out this inhumane, destructive, and wasteful practice.” Additional Background: Currently, the use of gillnets with a total length of two and one-half kilometers or more is prohibited in U.S. waters. The drift gillnet fishing gear being utilized off the coast of California can be up to or more than a mile long in length, and is designed to catch swordfish and thresher sharks. However, due to its large mesh size, many marine species—including some ESA-listed species—can also become entangled in the mesh nets as a result of bycatch. Many animals are injured or killed in the process. This bill is supported by Oceana, Pew Charitable Trusts, Turtle Island Restoration Network, Friends of the Earth, Center for Biological Diversity, Humane Society Legislative Fund, Defenders of Wildlife, Animal Welfare Institute, Endangered Species Coalition, American Sportfishing Association. Support for H.R. 5638: Oceana: “Targeting swordfish with drift gillnets is an indiscriminate and highly destructive way to fish,” said Oceana’s deputy vice president of the Pacific, Susan Murray. “This fishery tosses overboard more marine life than it keeps. With cleaner, more selective fishing gears available, there is no reason to continue using antiquated methods that inflict unnecessary harm to ocean wildlife.” Humane Society Legislative Fund: “We applaud Reps. Ted Lieu and Brian Fitzpatrick for introducing legislation to protect dolphins and whales in their natural habitats,” stated Sara Amundson, president of the Humane Society Legislative Fund. “Each year, the fishing industry’s drift gillnets ensnare and drown countless majestic creatures. H.R. 5638 promises to reduce these horrible and indiscriminate deaths along one of the longest state coastlines in the nation.” Pew Charitable Trusts: “I hope that this commonsense and bipartisan bill passes, and provides the momentum needed to end the use of drift gillnets,” said Paul Shively, project director of Pacific Ocean conservation for the Pew Charitable Trusts. “It’s the best way of preserving the viable commercial swordfishing industry without unnecessary harm to the marine wildlife that is integral to a healthy Pacific Ocean ecosystem.” Turtle Island Restoration Network: “Driftnets meant for swordfish and thresher sharks off the coast of California are actually harming and killing more than 70 different species of ocean wildlife," said Cassie Burdyshaw, advocacy and policy director with Turtle Island Restoration Network. "H.R. 5638, introduced by Congressman Ted Lieu and Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick, brings us one step closer to phasing out antiquated and unsustainable driftnets.” Friends of the Earth: “The use of driftnets is wholly unsustainable and a federal ban on this method of fishing is a long time coming,” said Marcie Keever, Director of the Oceans and Vessels Program at Friends of the Earth. “These massive nets catch and kill an unforgivable amount of marine life and are so cruel that only a single California fishery currently utilizes them. With so many other types of sustainable fishing methods available, driftnets must become a thing of the past.” American Sportfishing Association: “The nation’s recreational fishing community is comprised of millions of individuals and thousands of businesses with a deep passion for aquatic resource conservation. As such, the American Sportfishing Association strongly supports H.R. 5638, the Driftnet Modernization and Bycatch Reduction Act, which will end the use of highly destructive large-mesh drift gillnets. In California, this gear is responsible for unacceptably high levels of bycatch, including of sportfish, sharks and marine mammals, and we commend Rep. Lieu for leading this effort to improve the health and sustainability of California’s marine resources.” Animal Welfare Institute: “AWI thanks Reps. Lieu and Fitzpatrick for their bipartisan work to protect marine mammals along the nation’s longest coast,” said Nancy Blaney, director of government affairs at the Animal Welfare Institute. “The continued use of large-mesh drift gillnets in these waters has led to exorbitant amounts of bycatch, and it places marine mammals, some even listed under the ESA, in grave danger. H.R. 5638 would finally remove this threat to marine mammals along California’s coastline.” Endangered Species Coalition: “We thank Congressmen Lieu and Fitzpatrick for introducing this important legislation to stop animals from suffering,” said Leda Huta, Executive Director, Endangered Species Coalition. “A federal ban on these drift gillnets will save endangered species including leatherback and loggerhead sea turtles, sperm whales and other imperiled wildlife. Anyone who has seen film of animals trapped in these nets know how heart wrenching it is. We look forward to seeing this bill become law.” ###
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D-NY) called on the Georgia State Bar to open an ethics investigation into Jay Sekulow’s false statements to the media regarding his client, Donald J. Trump. Mr. Sekulow repeatedly misled the American public by denying the President’s involvement in drafting a misleading statement regarding a Trump Tower meeting between the Trump campaign and an alleged Russian informant. Under Georgia’s ethics rules, lying or failing to disclose a material fact to a third party is an offense that could lead to disbarment. In the letter, the Members write: Ms. Paula Frederick General Counsel State Bar of Georgia 104 Marietta St. NW, Suite 100 Atlanta, GA 30303 Dear Ms. Frederick: We write regarding the conduct of Mr. Jay Sekulow, who was admitted to the Georgia State Bar on June 5, 1980. As Members of Congress and former prosecutors, we fully expect attorneys to vigorously defend their clients. We do not, however, expect them to lie for their clients. We would therefore like to call your attention to certain actions taken by Mr. Sekulow that appear to have violated the State Bar of Georgia’s ethics rules, specifically Rule 4.1 (“Truthfulness in Statements to Others”). Please consider this letter a request for a formal ethics investigation into Mr. Sekulow. In June 2016, Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort met with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya who, by her own account, was an “informant” who had been “actively communicating with the office of the Russian prosecutor general.” After the New York Times reported on the meeting in July, Donald Trump Jr. released a statement on July 8 claiming the meeting was primarily about “a program about the adoption of Russian children.” After an additional story broke revealing the true purpose of the meeting – to obtain damaging information on then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton – Donald Trump Jr. released a new statement changing his story and confirming several of the report’s details. Mr. Sekulow first denied the President was involved in drafting the initial misleading statement on July 12, when he told CNN, “I wasn’t involved in the statement drafting at all, nor was the President.” Subsequently, Mr. Sekulow insisted on at least three separate occasions that the July statement was not drafted by the President. Contrary to his initial claims, this week we learned that Mr. Sekulow sent a letter to Robert Mueller in January 2018 that read, “…the President dictated a short but accurate response to the New York Times article on behalf of his son, Donald Trump, Jr.” Mr. Sekulow’s letter clearly conflicts with his earlier statements as seen below: · Mr. Sekulow, CNN interview, 7/12/17: "That [statement] was written, no that was written by Donald Trump Jr. and I'm sure with consultation with his lawyer. That wasn't written by the president." · Mr. Sekulow, ABC interview, 7/12/17: "The president didn't sign off on anything. He was coming back from the G20. The statement that was released Saturday was released by Donald Trump Jr., I'm sure in consultation with his lawyers. The President wasn't involved in that.” · Mr. Sekulow, NBC interview, 7/16/17: "The President was not — did not — draft the response. The response came from Donald Trump Jr. and — I'm sure — in consultation with his lawyer. ... Let me say this — but I do want to be clear — that the President was not involved in the drafting of the statement and did not issue the statement. It came from Donald Trump Jr.” · Mr. Sekulow, statement to the Washington Post, 7/31/17: "Apart from being of no consequence, the characterizations are misinformed, inaccurate, and not pertinent.” As you know, Rule 4.1 of the Georgia State Bar ethics manual states, “In the course of representing a client a lawyer shall not knowingly (a) make a false statement of material fact or law to a third person; or (b) fail to disclose a material fact to a third person when disclosure is necessary to avoid assisting a criminal or fraudulent act by a client, unless disclosure is prohibited by Rule 1.6. The maximum penalty for a violation of this Rule is disbarment.” It is deeply disturbing that Mr. Sekulow appears to have made, on at least four separate occasions, false statements of material facts to third parties – including the American people. Given the nature of the meeting about which he appears to have lied, he may have attempted to cover up evidence of criminal activity including conspiracy to obstruct justice. Mr. Sekulow’s current status of “Active Member in Good Standing” would suggest the Bar has not formally evaluated recent developments. We thus request the General Counsel’s office investigate whether Mr. Sekulow in fact violated Rule 4.1 and should face penalties for such a violation. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Ted W. Lieu Member of Congress Kathleen Rice Member of Congress
06.04.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), who is one of four computer science majors in Congress, announced the beginning of this year’s Congressional App Challenge (CAC), a competition for students in middle and high school that encourages students to learn how to code and develop computer literacy. Starting June 4, eligible students of all experience levels from CA-33 are encouraged to enter by coding and submitting their own original apps. Students should register online by Sept. 10 before submitting their app by Oct. 15. The competition is open to all students who meet the eligibility requirements, regardless of coding experience. The CAC accepts computer programs (or apps) written in any programming language, for any platform (desktop/PC, web, mobile, raspberry Pi, etc.). Winners are selected by a panel of judges from the community, and are honored by their Member of Congress. Their apps are eligible to be featured on a display in the U.S. Capitol building, on www.house.gov, and on the Congressional App Challenge website. The CAC was created because Congress recognized that STEM and computer-based skills are essential for economic growth and innovation. By some estimates, the U.S. may be short by many as a million programmers by 2020 even though these are high-paying, high-demand jobs. To maintain American competitiveness, it’s crucial that the United States invests in our youth now, and helps them acquire these valuable skills. The CAC encourages students to pursue those skills and recognizes them for their efforts. Recognizing the racial, gendered, and other disparities in the tech sector, the CAC also focuses on inclusivity and making the Challenge as accessible as possible to people from all backgrounds. Deliberate efforts will be made to include students from all backgrounds, including those traditionally underrepresented in tech. For further information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit www.CongressionalAppChallenge.us ###
05.30.2018	LOS ANGELES – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Governor Jerry Brown announced the expansion of the Metro Green Line. The Green Line project will extend the subway system from Redondo Beach to the new Regional Transit Center in Torrance. In April, Rep. Lieu sent a letter to Governor Brown in support of this project and funding for expanded public transportation systems throughout Los Angeles County. “Today we can celebrate what is truly a win for South Bay and Los Angeles County residents, businesses and visitors. The Green Line expansion project has the capability of connecting and transforming our community and I’m proud to have supported it from the beginning. As our region continues to grow, it is even more critical that we invest in public transportation to reduce traffic congestion and ease travel for residents and visitors alike. Last term I was proud to help fight for and secure full phase one funding from the federal government for MTA's light rail and subway expansion. By connecting people in an efficient and responsible way, we’re bringing more business to more areas in our community. It’s an all-around triumph for our communities.” ###
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House passed his amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to report back to Congress on foreign interference in Libya. “I am pleased that the House of Representatives passed my amendment to the NDAA. We continue to see disturbing reports of foreign nations, including Russia, violating the U.N. arms embargo, fueling the civil war and directly undermining U.S. interests in the region. I am concerned that if these actions go unaddressed, Libya could further deteriorate and become a new home base for terrorist groups. This amendment will help us better understand the dynamics fueling instability across North Africa so we can respond appropriately. Protecting American lives and US interests remains my number one priority, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Foreign Affairs Committee to draw attention to emerging threats to our national security.” ###
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D-NY) sent a letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray calling for an investigation into whether the Kremlin used the National Rifle Association (NRA) to funnel money into electoral campaigns. Mr. Lieu and Ms. Rice, both former prosecutors, are calling on the FBI to evaluate whether Russia illegally used the NRA to support or interfere with Senate and Congressional campaigns. In the letter, the Members write: · On May 16, Senate Judiciary Democrats released a report detailing the preliminary findings of their investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Specifically, the findings indicated that the Committee has received documents suggesting that Russia may have used the NRA to improperly provide financial support to the Trump campaign. · This finding is consistent with recent public reporting that the NRA may have served as a conduit for illegal Russian contributions to the Trump campaign. It is further bolstered by the complex web of relationships between Russian nationals and the NRA. In particular, we understand that the organization has ties to Alexander Torshin, the deputy governor of Russia’s central bank; Maria Butina, Torshin’s assistant and the founder of Right to Bear Arms; Sergei Rudov, the general director of St. Basil the Great Charitable Foundation, which has been reportedly used for money laundering; and Dmitry Rogozin, Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister of Defense. · The NRA spent more than $30 million to support the Trump campaign, an amount far greater than those used for previous Republican presidential nominees. We also know the NRA spent significant amounts on U.S. House or U.S. Senate races. · Illegal campaign contributions by a foreign nation, especially one whose interests stand in stark contrast to those of the United States, threaten the very underpinnings of our democracy and cannot remain unchallenged. As such, if the FBI is not already doing so, we urge you to immediately investigate any potential illegal contributions by Russia to the Trump campaign and ensure such investigation includes contributions to any U.S. House or U.S. Senate candidates. We also request you investigate whether any NRA officials READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the White House announced that President Trump would no longer meet with North Korea Leader Kim Jong Un in a June summit. “The President’s chaotic approach to North Korea has gone from name calling and threats of nuclear war to promises of denuclearization and talk of a Nobel Peace Prize and now to a cancelled summit and more threats of nuclear war. Diplomacy is difficult and serious work. It requires patience and strategic thinking. North Korea is not like one of his real estate deals. Trump is playing with fire with a dictator that has nuclear weapons on a peninsula in which over 200,000 Americans live. America is great when we lead on the world stage. This erratic approach to our foreign policy strains our alliances, emboldens our enemies and threatens global stability. America deserves better.” ###
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressional Asia Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) Chair Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-CA) led a letter with 31 Members of Congress calling on the Department of Commerce's Inspector General to open an investigation into the Department's handling of disciplinary actions taken against Sherry Chen, a National Weather Service employee. In October 2014, Ms. Chen was targeted by federal investigators for alleged espionage. The Federal Bureau of Investigation later dropped all charges against Ms. Chen, but NOAA still chose to issue a Proposed Disciplinary Action against her which resulted in her termination. Ms. Chen then appealed her case to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB), an independent, bipartisan board charged with safeguarding the rights of civil servants, and an MSPB judge recently ruled that Ms. Chen was the “victim of a gross injustice.” In the letter, the Members wrote: It does not appear that anyone at the Department has been held accountable for the pattern of misconduct in Ms. Chen’s case.We remain concerned that her case reflects systemic problems at the Department and warrants further review.We specifically call your attention to an April 23, 2018 decision (Docket Number CH-0752-17-0028-I-1) issued by Chief Administrative Judge Michele Szary Schroeder in which Judge Schroeder ruled in favor of Ms. Chen, an award-winning former GS-12 hydrologist at the NWS, and rejected many of the allegations against her. The decision determined the Department did not have cause to terminate Ms. Chen’s employment and therefore should reinstate her employment at the NWS, give her back pay, and cover her legal fees – all of which has yet to happen. Historically, it is uncommon for MSPB to rule in favor of an appellant - the success rate is less than 2 percent.In this case, not only did Ms. Chen receive a favorable ruling, but Judge Schroeder issued a 135-page point-by-point decision detailing the mishandling and failings at multiple levels at the Department, including by the Office of Security, Office of the General Counsel, Workforce Management Office, and top leadership of NWS and NOAA.Specifically, Judge Schroeder determined that Ms. Laura Furgione, the proposing official for the Department, and Vice Admiral Michael Devany, the deciding official for the Department, were “digging in” and “more concerned about being right than doing the right thing.”The judge found it “troubling” that Department officials failed to include a dozen sworn declarations from Ms. Chen’s co-workers that were “clearly relevant” to the termination decision, thereby suppressing critical evidence.Judge Schroeder also concluded that “based on the unyielding nature of their testimony, I would not have been surprised if they rejected that 2 + 2 = 4.” Judge Schroeder’s decision suggests that the Department may have engaged in gross misconduct against a Chinese American employee on the basis of her race.If left unchecked, such systemic misconduct risks jeopardizing the Department’s integrity and creating a hostile work environment for Asian Americans and other minorities across our government, undermining its ability to recruit top talent. No federal employee - or any American - should be viewed by our government as more suspicious because of their race or ethnicity. We thank you for your attention to this important matter and look forward to working with you to protect the liberties of all Americans. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Reps. Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), Val Demings (D-FL) and Elise Stefanik introduced the bipartisan ‘Defend Against Russian Disinformation Act,’ designed to strengthen America’s response to Russian interference in our elections. The bill would strengthen federal cybersecurity, support intelligence gathering, and enhance NATO military activities. It has been vetted by bipartisan national security experts. A recent Washington Post-ABC News poll found that nearly seven in ten Americans support tougher sanctions against Russia. Upon introduction Rep. Lieu said: “Russia is threatening our democracy. By refusing to act, the Trump Administration is allowing foreign adversaries using cutting-edge tools to sow discord and shift elections. Because we have yet to enact sufficient safeguards to protect our elections, we’re tolerating the actions of bad actors like Russia who want to chip away at our democracy. I’m grateful for Congresswoman Val Demings’ leadership on the Defend Against Russian Disinformation Act. With this bill, our government will be empowered to take considerable steps—including enforcing sanctions and strengthening federal cybersecurity standards—to defend our institutions and fight Russian disinformation.” Upon introduction Rep. Demings said: “When America takes on a bully, we should fight to win. I won’t sit in silence while a foreign dictator attacks our democracy and our citizens. Today, I’m introducing a bill to take clear steps to defend us from Russia’s uncontested aggression. “Thirteen Russians and three companies have already been indicted for interfering with the 2016 election. Since then, Russia has continued its campaigns of disinformation, propaganda, and political and military pressure against U.S. allies and interests. “American families deserve to know that their news is real, their power grid is secure, and their personal information won’t be stolen. Our allies deserve to know that America will respond strategically and strongly in their defense against aggression. All of us deserve a safe, free world—and the only way to get it is to stand up to the world’s dictators when they go on the offensive. “It’s time to stand up for ourselves by securing our cyber-infrastructure, preventing malicious hacks, strengthening our intelligence-gathering, working with our allies to push back against Russian aggression, and investigating and shutting down the illicit funding streams that bankroll Putin and his cronies.” Upon introduction, Rep. Stefanik said: “Russia is an active adversary of the United States and this legislation aims to counter their ability to conduct information warfare on the American people. As the Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities and a Member of the House Intelligence Committee, I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan bill to bolster our cyber defense and strengthen our partnership with NATO.” Background Rep. Demings, Orlando’s former Police Chief, serves on the House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, and is a member of the Congressional Task Force on Election Security. As a member of the Task Force, she previously helped to introduce The Election Security Act to secure America’s election infrastructure. Rep. Ted Lieu (D, CA-33) serves on the House Judiciary Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee. Rep. Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21) serves on the House Armed Services Committee and Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Russia’s 2016 election-interference campaign included an attempted breach of Florida’s election system, in which 12 Florida Supervisors of Elections were targeted. Bill Summary The Defend Against Russian Disinformation Act relies heavily on the work of a Council of Foreign Relations report by Robert Blackwill and Philip Gordon. Mr. Blackwill worked for the George W. Bush Administration. Mr. Gordon worked for the Obama Administration. The Defend Against Russian Disinformation Act declares that Russia has engaged in the spread of disinformation, aiming to undermine democracies including the United States. To combat Russian influence, the bill codifies the State Department’s Coordinator of Sanctions Office to oversee the diplomatic aspects of U.S. and U.N. sanctions with respect to Russia. The office was closed by the administration last year. In addition, it expresses that Executive Order 13800, issued by President Trump last year to strengthen federal cybersecurity, should be implemented. Finally, it directs the Secretary of Defense to conduct more NATO naval exercises in the Baltic and Black Sea and conduct joint research to enhance military capabilities to deter Russian aggression in those regions. ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to the Food and Drug Administration asking for more information on the FDA's efforts to test glyphosate levels in food. The letter follows a report published in The Guardian indicating that glyphosate, the chemical commonly used in herbicides, could be found in common foods. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: As you know, since 2016 the FDA has been testing particular food items, including corn, milk, eggs, and soybeans, for glyphosate residues. The EPA is completing a registration review of glyphosate to determine whether or not the pesticide presents human health and ecological risks. This interim review is not expected to be released until next year. The EPA Inspector General (IG) is also conducting an inquiry into the agency’s review of glyphosate after reports of misconduct by EPA officials. I am concerned by recent public reporting revealing that scientists at the FDA have communicated that they found glyphosate traces in commonplace food items. Specifically, on April 30, 2018, an article published in The Guardian referenced documents from an FDA scientist who had found glyphosate on his “wheat crackers, granola cereal and corn meal.” Additionally, the article stated that a different agency scientist had found glyphosate residues on corn that exceeded the EPA’s accepted limits. However, the report indicates that neither of these samples will be included in your agency’s official review of glyphosate in food items. The differences between levels of glyphosates referenced in The Guardian article and the FDA’s preliminary test results coupled with the EPA IG’s inquiry into its own agency’s review of glyphosate indicate to me that the public deserves additional information on the safety of glyphosate in food. As such, I respectfully request answers to the following questions. How did the FDA determine which food items to include in its glyphosate testing? How would any potential changes to the EPA’s regulations for glyphosate affect the FDA’s testing? Do you collaborate with the National Institutes of Health on matters related to glyphosate? Does the International Agency for Research on Cancer’s finding that glyphosate may be carcinogenic affect your testing of the pesticide? Will you release, or provide to Congress, the preliminary results of the FDA’s glyphosate testing? When will the final results for the FDA’s glyphosate testing be completed and made public? Do you disagree with any element of The Guardian article referenced in this letter? If so, please explain. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
05.17.2018	LOS ANGELES – This week, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) led a group of 17 Members of Congress from greater Los Angeles expressing support for an Army Futures Command in Los Angeles. In a letter to Army Secretary Mark Esper, the Members outlined why Los Angeles would be an unparalleled hub of talent, research and innovation for the U.S. Army. In the letter, the Members write: Ranked as one of the top tech hubs in the country, LA would privde Futures Command with the perfect access to technology, talent, and academia. Each year, the region’s top-tier institutions such as UCLA, USC and CalTech graduate the most engineers in the country, and obtain millions in research funding. “Silicon Beach,” located in the western part of the city, is home to nearly 500 start-ups and major tech companies. From 2013 through 2017, venture capitalist firms invested a total of $21.6 billion in the region. This same entrepreneurial and innovative spirit thrives in other industries in the area, such as biotech, medicine, and entertainment. Futures Command could leverage these diverse perspectives to find innovative breakthroughs. Unlike other cities, LA also has a long history of being the center of defense innovation. In 1969, researchers sent the first email from UCLA to colleagues at Stanford—their feat only made possible through the U.S. Defense Department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency Network. Today, the same collaborative spirit continues to contribute to our national security interests. Home to nearly 50,000 aerospace and defense employees, LA manufactures products such as parts to the F-35 stealth fighters and Gray Eagle drones. Alongside adding to our military’s capabilities, the region remains a place of cutting-edge defense research and home to three legacy Federally-Funded Research and Development Centers: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Aerospace Corps, and RAND. Initiatives like the Advanced Manufacturing Partnerships for Southern California have built successful partnerships among these multiple groups, resulting in over 5,000 new jobs and $1 billion in investment to the sector since 2014. Given that Futures Command will be the Army’s most significant organization development since 1973, having these existing relationships will be crucial for success. As Army narrows its choices in the coming weeks, it is our sincere hope that you will strongly consider the City of Los Angeles. With its robust talent pool, available infrastructure, and history of defense innovation, the City of Los Angeles would support the Army’s efforts to prepare its soldiers for the future of combat. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Jim Langevin (D-RI) introduced a bill today to enhance cybersecurity collaboration across the federal government by creating a permanent director of cybersecurity policy in the White House. Recent news reports indicate that President Trump has eliminated the role of special assistant to the President and cybersecurity coordinator at the urging of National Security Advisor John Bolton. Mr. Langevin and Mr. Lieu’s bill, the Executive Cyberspace Coordination Act, would create a cyber advisory position by consolidating cybersecurity policy responsibilities in a National Office for Cyberspace in the Executive Office of the President. Upon introduction, Rep. Lieu said: “The decision to eliminate the top White House cyber policy role is outrageous, especially given that we’re facing more hostile threats from foreign adversaries than ever before. This move impedes our country’s strategic efforts to counter cybersecurity threats against our country. Fortunately, our bill will fill in those holes in government cybersecurity oversight by creating a National Office for Cyberspace in the White House. A coordinated effort to keep our information systems safe is paramount if we want to counter the cyber threats posed by foes like Russia, Iran and China. To do anything less is a direct threat to national security. I am grateful to Congressman Langevin for his leadership on this critical issue.” Upon introduction, Rep. Langevin said: “We have had three excellent cybersecurity coordinators since the late Howard Schmidt originated the position. It is an enormous step backwards to deemphasize the importance of this growing domain within the White House. We need a designated expert to harmonize cyber policy across the many agencies in government with responsibility in this space. We also need clear communication of Administration positions on cybersecurity challenges, whether during major incidents or when establishing norms of responsible state behavior in cyberspace. I’m proud to work with Congressman Lieu to not only reinstitute this cyber coordinator position, but also enhance the role’s power to make government more effective.” In addition to creating the National Office for Cyberspace, the bill would establish a Senate-confirmed director of the office with responsibility for recommending security measures and budgets for federal agencies, coordinating issues relating to cyberspace across the government while promoting civil liberties, and centralizing defense of federal information infrastructure in the event of a large-scale attack. Congressman Langevin has advocated for increased oversight of federal cybersecurity activities since he served as co-chair of the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency, and the bill is based on recommendations from the Commission’s report that have yet to be implemented. President Obama originated the role of special assistant to the President and cybersecurity coordinator in 2009 with the appointment of longtime civil servant and cybersecurity luminary Howard Schmidt. He was succeeded by Michael Daniel in 2012. President Trump’s cybersecurity coordinator, Rob Joyce, announced in April that he would be returning to the National Security Agency this month. This legislation is cosponsored by Langevin and Lieu’s colleagues, Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Denny Heck (D-WA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY), Bobby Rush (D-IL), and C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL HERE ###
05.14.2018	WASHINGTON- Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after President Trump announced that the U.S. would consider giving ZTE, a Chinese telecommunications company, "a way to get back into business, fast", after the U.S. penalized the company for making illegal shipments to Iran and North Korea. “By promising to help Chinese tech company ZTE, the President isn’t just prioritizing Chinese jobs over the U.S.’s wellbeing, he’s jeopardizing our national security. His own Department of Defense banned the sale of ZTE phones on military bases two weeks ago because these phones can be used for cyberespionage. The President is once again bucking the advice of his own Director of National Intelligence, as well has numerous Republican Members of Congress. The White House hasn’t presented a good reason why Trump made this deal even though there’s a bipartisan chorus opposing ZTE’s reach in the U.S. The President needs to explain to Congress why he’s defending a company that his own Commerce Department penalized--to the tune of $1.19 billion--for illegally exporting technology to Iran and North Korea. This deal looks an awful lot like the President is placing a higher premium on Chinese jobs than U.S. national security. The question is: why? ” ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON- Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Politico reported that White House National Security Advisor John Bolton is pushing to eliminate the White House’s top cybersecurity job. “This is yet another example of the Trump Administration talking a big game on national security but taking steps that directly undermine our ability to combat emerging threats. As a computer science major and Air Force veteran, I can tell you that eliminating the White House cybersecurity coordinator will endanger our economy, critical infrastructure, and possibly American lives. At a time when terror groups and nation states are beefing up their cyber capabilities, the Administration has signaled that it’s apparently time to weaken our defenses and – according to reports – put John Bolton in charge of one of the most technically complex jobs in the nation. Of course, this isn’t what the President told us when he issued an executive order to strengthen federal cybersecurity when he first took office – but like so many other promises, this too is turning out to be another lie.” ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC) passed the Hack Your State Department Bill, which he authored with Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL), and the Global Engagement Center Authorities Act of 2018, which he coauthored with Rep. Brad Schneider (D-IL). Both bills serve to improve State Department’s ability to counter foreign threats to the United States, which are increasingly occurring in cyberspace. The Hack Your State Department Bill would strengthen cyber defenses for the State Department by tapping ethical hackers to identify vulnerabilities in the Department’s networks and data systems. The Global Engagement Center Authorities Act would strengthen the GEC’s ability to address foreign propaganda and misinformation campaigns against the United States, including those conducted online. “Our democracy and democracies around the world are being threatened by malign foreign powers, but the Trump Administration continues to balk at the proven fact that hostile foreign actors are using misinformation campaigns to challenge our faith in American institutions. I’m grateful to be partnering with Rep. Schneider to strengthen the Global Engagement Center within the Department of State, because it will serve as a vital tool to counter Russian interference in our upcoming elections. I’m also pleased by the excitement we’re seeing around ‘the Hack Your State Department Bill’ and want to thank Representative Ted Yoho for partnering with me on this bill. Congress is coming around to recognizing that cyber vulnerabilities pose a unique and pressing threat to our national security. For too long, our government has approached these dangers with outdated tools and techniques, sometimes coming short of safeguarding our country’s most sensitive information. By crowdsourcing and tapping into authorized hackers' skills and expertise, the State Department can move to the cutting edge of cyber defense. I appreciate the support of my House Foreign Affairs colleagues in passing both of these bills in committee. I encourage my colleagues to bring them to the floor for a vote.” Background on the Hack Your State Department Bill Like the “Hack the Department of Homeland Security Act”, which Rep. Lieu introduced in 2017, this program will rely on a bug bounty system where authorized hackers can enter a State Department system, identify and disclose weaknesses and receive compensation. Additionally, it will establish a Vulnerability Disclosure Program to field vulnerabilities reported by the general public. The Trump Administration's 2017 Report to the President on Federal IT Modernization recommended that agencies establish vulnerability disclosure policies and set up private bug bounty programs. Background on the Global Engagement Center Authorities Act of 2018 H.R. 5681, the Global Engagement Center Authorities Act of 2018, clarifies responsibilities for the GEC, expands its hiring authorities, and establishes stronger congressional oversight requirements. Specifically, the bill clarifies the purpose of the GEC as the leader of federal government efforts to address the threat of foreign misinformation, expands hiring authorities to ensure the GEC is properly staffed, and requires annual congressional briefings on the activities of the GEC. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Brad Schneider (IL-10)announced the introduction of new legislation to strengthen the Global Engagement Center (GEC) within the Department of State, the office tasked with countering foreign disinformation and propaganda campaigns. In March 2018, The New York Times reported the GEC had yet to spend any of the $120 million it had been allocated since late 2016 to counter Russian information warfare efforts, nor had it recruited a single analyst who speaks Russian. H.R. 5681, the Global Engagement Center Authorities Act of 2018, clarifies responsibilities for the GEC, expands its hiring authorities, and establishes stronger congressional oversight requirements. Upon Introduction, Mr. Lieu writes: “Our democracy and democracies around the world are being threatened by malign foreign powers, but the Trump Administration continues to balk at the proven fact that hostile foreign actors are using misinformation campaigns to challenge our faith in American institutions. I’m grateful to be partnering with Rep. Schneider to strengthen the Global Engagement Center within the Department of State, because it will serve as a vital tool to counter Russian interference in our upcoming elections. In March, Rep. Castro and I questioned why State Department resources dedicated to the GEC were going unspent, which underscores exactly why Congressional oversight of GEC is critical.” Upon Introduction, Mr. Schneider writes: “Every week, we seem to learn more about the sophisticated network of social media bots and online ads used by Russia to spread disinformation during the 2016 election, but the Trump Administration refuses to see the very real threat or take the necessary actions. Russia views the upcoming 2018 elections as a target for further interference, and we have to act now. The Global Engagement Center has a crucial responsibility to recognize, understand, expose, and counter foreign propaganda and disinformation efforts. I am proud to partner with Rep. Ted Lieu to introduce this legislation to ensure our government is responding to this threat with the seriousness it deserves.” More on the bill: Specifically, the bill clarifies the purpose of the GEC as the leader of federal government efforts to address the threat of foreign misinformation, expands hiring authorities to ensure the GEC is properly staffed, and requires annual congressional briefings on the activities of the GEC. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), along with Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) and Congressman Jerry McNerney (D-CA) introduced the Prohibiting Threatened and Endangered Creature Trophies (ProTECT) Act. This legislation would amend the Endangered Species Act (ESA) to prohibit the taking of any endangered or threatened species in the United States as a trophy and the importation of any such trophy into the United States. Upon introduction of this legislation, Mr. Lieu said: “Fueling the trade of trophies, ivory, and horns is selfish as much as it is cruel. Efforts to conserve wildlife and combat wildlife trafficking must remain a priority in Congress. This is why Congressman Sheila Jackson Lee and I introduced the ProTECT Act, which would end the senseless killings of endangered and threatened species listed under the ESA.” Upon introduction of this legislation, Ms. Jackson Lee said: “Today, in partnership with Congressman Ted Lieu, I introduced legislation to keep rare and threatened species safe from senseless trophy hunting. The “Prohibiting Threatened and Endangered Creature Trophies Act of 2018” (ProTECT Act) amends the Endangered Species Act (ESA) of 1973 to prohibit the taking of any endangered species or threatened species of wildlife or fish in the United States as a trophy and the importation of any such trophy into the United States. “The ProTECT Act of 2018 ensures that all acts of senseless and perilous trophy killings are prohibited under the Endangered Species Act. I was in Africa when the iconic Cecil the Lion, was murdered for sport. It is a disgrace that this act was committed by an American – with his lack of respect for these wondrous animals and the preservation of our wildlife reverberating across the world. With growing support and awareness of the need to protect ecosystem and a greater need for compassion of animal welfare issues, we hope that this legislative effort will be signed into law by the President, rescinding his pro-trophy hunting directive from March of this year.” Support for the Prohibiting Threatened and Endangered Creature Trophies (ProTECT) Act: “Born Free USA commends Reps. Sheila Jackson Lee and Ted Lieu for introducing the ProTECT Act. The ProTECT Act affirms what Born Free has long maintained: trophy hunting is a blood-sport, not a method of wildlife conservation. We welcome the introduction of this important legislation, which not only seeks to put into place important protections for wildlife, but also reflects the opinion of the vast majority of Americans who oppose trophy hunting.” – Prashant K. Khetan, CEO & General Counsel of Born Free USA “The ProTECT Act will ensure imperiled wildlife are protected, not killed for their horns or other parts to become mere decorations. We applaud Reps. Lieu and Jackson Lee for leading congressional efforts to end rewarding cruel and misguided trophy hunting of these majestic animals.” – Sara Amundson, President of the Humane Society Legislative Fund “Friends of Animals has long been pushing for a ban on trophy hunting as an important protection for wildlife and has introduced legislation on a state level in Connecticut and New York – the largest port for trophies in the U.S. – to ban the import of the body parts of Africa’s majestic Big 5 species,’’ said FoA President Priscilla Feral. “If the world’s threatened and endangered species, which includes lions, leopards and rhinos – are going to survive, lawmakers must support the ProTECT Act. This federal legislation will go a long way to end a blood sport practiced by a dwindling number of hunters and safeguard our sentient wildlife. We are heartened Reps. Sheila Jackson Lee and Ted Lieu recognize that killing is not conservation and are acting to send a message that America does not condone this demoralizing cruelty.” – Priscilla Feral, President of Friends of Animals Additional Background: Under President Obama, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) published a final rule revising the African Elephant rule under section 4(d) of the ESA. The rule prohibited the export and import of African elephant ivory with exceptions and limited the number of sport-hunted African elephant trophies imported into the United States. The Trump Administration lifted this near-complete ban earlier this year. In an internal memo dated in March, USFWS indicated it would review importation permits on a case by case basis. ###
05.01.2018	LOS ANGELES - On Saturday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) hosted his congressional district’s fourth-annual reception for the Congressional Art Competition at the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts. Students from 20 high schools submitted 223 pieces of art for this year’s competition. Entries included 43 paintings, 89 photographs, 39 drawings, 25 mixed-media submissions, and 27 other media including digital, collage, etc. The winner, Christine Kim of Beverly Hills High School, submitted a photograph of Ky Manns shot on 35mm film entitled “Who’s Manns”. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students who either reside or attend school in California’s 33rd Congressional District. The first-place winner’s art will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol along with winners from Congressional districts across the country. The winner will receive a trip to Washington D.C. in June to be recognized at an awards ceremony. The second and third place winners will have their art displayed for one year in the Congressman’s offices. First, second, and third place winners, as well as honorable mentions, received scholarships. “I was delighted to see so many unique and skillful entries in this year’s competition,” Rep. Lieu said. “Every year, our entrants set the bar even higher and this year was no exception. I’m truly in awe of how talented our students are in the 33rd district. I get to walk by the Congressional Art Competition exhibit in the U.S. Capitol every day and I can’t wait to see Christine’s piece hanging there, proudly representing our district.” Below are the results of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition: 1st Place: Christine Kim, “Who’s Manns?” | Grade 12 , Beverly Hills High School 2nd Place: Brandy Hwang, “The Last One” | Grade 12, West High School 3rd Place: Gabriel Le Neveu, “Homes” | Grade 11, Redondo Union High School Honorable Mentions: Painting: Madison Brooks, “Subconscious” | Grade 12 , Redondo Union High School Drawing: Esther Shin, “Stop Crying” | Grade 12, West High School Photography: Joey Choe, “Now or Never” | Grade 11, Santa Monica High School Mixed Media: Alanna Tran, “Seated Self” | Grade 12, West High School Other: Sophia Lopez, “Sheltered Life” | Grade 11, Palos Verdes High School Member’s Choice: Beaudry Medina, “In Our Hands” | Grade 11, Fairfax Senior High School Photos for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition can be found here. ###
05.01.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in celebration of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. “This month, we celebrate and honor our country’s Asian-American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities. The AAPI community has made indelible contributions to American society and culture and continues to demonstrate the importance and value of diversity and inclusion. As an Asian American, I am grateful for the AAPI trailblazers who carved a path for people like me to thrive fields like public service, art, education, business, research, science, journalism and entertainment. Ensuring people of all backgrounds have the opportunity to succeed is the best thing we can do for our country.” ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON--Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the FAA Reauthorization Bill, which includes provisions to reduce noise pollution and an amendment authored by Mr. Lieu. This amendment will require the National Research Council to write a report assessing the existence of non-leaded fuels that can be used by piston-powered planes. The report will also include information on ambient lead levels near airports where piston-powered aircraft are used and recommendations to reduce those levels. “I am glad this bill will address noise pollution from planes. The bill includes a study on the health impacts of overflight noise in six metropolitan areas including Southern California, a requirement that the FAA consider changing departure procedure for communities dealing with increased noise, and a pilot program at airports to mitigate aircraft noise. I am also pleased that this bill includes my amendment to address lead pollution, which concerns many of my constituents, particularly those in neighborhoods around the Santa Monica Airport. This report will be critical to the development of non-leaded aviation gasoline and as a result reduce lead pollution in communities near airports.” Background on the Lieu Amendment: Directs the National Research Council of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to conduct a study and develop a report on aviation gasoline. The study shall include an assessment of: Existing non-leaded fuel alternative to the aviation gasoline used by piston-powered general aviation aircraft; Ambient Pb (lead) concentrations at and around airports where piston-powered general aviation aircraft are used; and Mitigation measures to reduce ambient Pb concentrations, including: Increasing the size of run-up areas Relocating run-up areas Imposing restrictions on aircraft using aviation gasoline Increasing the use of motor gasoline in piston-powered general aviation aircraft The Secretary of Transportation shall submit the National Research Council report to Congress within 1 year of enactment of the bill. ##
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Don Beyer (D-VA) released the Environmental Protection Agency Inspector General’s letter confirming that the IG is reviewing Administrator Scott Pruitt’s conduct in office. The letter was a response to calls by Mr. Lieu and Mr. Beyer for an IG investigation into Administrator Pruitt’s below-market condo lease, as well as an after-the-fact ethics justification for the arrangement. READ THE FULL LETTER HERE ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority was awarded $2.4 billion to expand Los Angeles’ transportation system, including lengthening the Metro Green Line. In April, Rep. Lieu sent a letter to Governor Edmund Brown, Jr. in support of the Green Line project, which will extend the subway system from Redondo Beach to the new Regional Transit Center in Torrance. “This is a triumph for South Bay and Los Angeles County residents, businesses and visitors. As our region continues to grow, it has become even more critical that we better connect our community through public transportation. I’m proudly supporting transit expansions like the Green Line project because they will provide better commuting options for the communities of the South Bay and ease travel through the region for residents and visitors alike. This means more cars off the road—a vital way to mitigate traffic congestion and help our environment. Connecting more people in an efficient and responsible way means we’re bringing additional commerce to more areas in our community. It’s an all-around win for our communities.” ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in met yesterday to work towards denuclearization and an official end to the Korean War. “I am pleased that the leaders of South and North Korea had a productive meeting yesterday. This historic event is the first step in the long journey towards peace on the Peninsula and I applaud efforts to reach an agreement without military escalation. There will undoubtedly be many challenges that come with ending 65 years of aggression and mistrust. Diplomacy is not easy – but is it always preferable to war.” ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) sent a letter to the White House Communications Agency (WHCA), U.S. Secret Service and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) urging their office heads to clarify steps the White House is taking to ensure the President’s communications are protected. The letter seeks answers related to reports that the President still uses an unsecured phone, leaving him vulnerable to cyber attacks and spying by adversaries. In the letter, the Members write: While cybersecurity is a universal concern, the President of the United States stands alone as the single-most valuable intelligence target on the planet. Given the apparent lack of progress the Administration has made since initial reports in 2016 of the President’s poor operational security, it appears the only thing standing between the Office of the President and the next national security nightmare is a combination of President Trump’s personal restraint and sheer luck.Our national security should not depend on whether the President clicks on a malicious link on Twitter or his text application, or the fortuity of foreign agencies not knowing his personal cell number. Mobile security vulnerabilities are well-documented. In particular, the Signaling System 7 vulnerability (SS7) allows foreign governments and malicious actors to use the architecture of our cell phone networks to intercept calls and SMS messages if they simply know a person's cell phone number. Foreign agencies can also intercept cell phone calls and text messages if they are monitoring the unsecure cell phones of people that the President calls. Additionally, malware such as Pegasus can provide access to a phone’s microphone and camera even while the phone is not being used. These vulnerabilities are just some of the reasons that Director of National Intelligence James Clapper recently called President Trump’s use of a personal cell phone a “goldmine of intelligence." Hostile foreign intelligence agencies routinely attempt to breach White House communications operations, and the President is effectively handing them the keys to the office. The American people deserve to know whether steps are being taken to prevent the President’s personal phone from jeopardizing his own safety, the integrity of the Office, and critical national security information. We request that you answer the following questions as indicated below? White House Communications Agency (WHCA) Is the WHCA aware of reports indicating the President is using an unsecured Android phone, as referenced above? President Barack Obama’s Blackberry was modified to disallow text messages, which the WHCA recognized could pose a national security threat if a malicious link was inadvertently clicked. Is President Trump tweeting from a secure device that has been properly vetted by the WHCA to account for basic threats like spearfishing? Is the Trump administration following proper protocols to ensure the President’s personal phone does not connect to open and vulnerable wireless networks, either in Washington D.C. or at his other residences, or when he travels to other locations? How frequently does the WHCA update the President’s phone’s operating system? Does the President use encryption when he makes phone calls or texts from his personal cell phone? How has WHCA adapted to the growing threat of “Stingray” devices, or IMSI catchers, in Washington D.C., especially given the President’s alleged proclivity for making outgoing voice calls on his personal cell phone? Before the President travels abroad, is his personal phone serviced by WHCA and/or relevant Intelligence Community organizations to ensure it has robust technical defenses against intrusion or foreign intelligence collection efforts? After the President travels abroad, is his personal phone screened in accordance with proper procedures to ensure that it has not been compromised by foreign intelligence services or other parties? U.S. Secret Service Is the U.S. Secret Service aware of reports indicating the President is using an unsecured Android phone, as referenced above? Given the unique threats posed by POTUS’ alleged use of a personal cell phone, what steps is the U.S. Secret Service currently taking to ensure the President’s personal physical security is not comprised, either by geolocation tracking or other means? Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) Is ODNI leadership aware of reports indicating the President of the United States frequently uses an unsecured Android device? How has ODNI coordinated with relevant USG agencies and entities to prevent classified information from leaking via the President’s unsecured Android phone? Has ODNI conducted a review of threats posed by the President’s unsecured Android device? If so, have recommendations been made to relevant USG entities following such a review? Has the WHCA met with or discussed with ODNI staff possible solutions to the threat of foreign intelligence gathering via a compromised phone? When the President receives a classified briefing, does he follow security procedures and leave his personal cell phone outside the secured briefing room? READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON- Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), along wth Reps. Michael McCaul (R-TX), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (D-FL) and Ted Deutch (D-FL), led a bipartisan letter with 46 members requesting information from Acting Secretary of State John Sullivan on the Trump Administration’s efforts to secure the release of American citizens and permanent U.S. residents held hostage by Iran’s government. Today, there are more than six American citizens and permanent U.S. residents held by the Iranian regime as an attempt to have leverage over the United States. In the letter, the Members write: The United States has a moral responsibility to devote resources to these hostages and make their return a priority. According to media reports, the State Department has increased efforts in recent months to secure the release of these hostages, including outreach to the Iranian regime in December 2017 that has gone unanswered. On April 6, 2018, the Department outlined efforts that have been undertaken in a report to Congress pursuant to Section 110 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. We request that the Department provide some additional details to Congress. Specifically, please provide answers to the following questions in either written responses or a briefing: How has Iran responded to the various lines of effort made by the U.S., as detailed in the April 6 report to Congress, to raise the detention cases? According to a June 20, 2017, article from the Washington Post, two senior officials from the Trump administration stated a range of options were being considered, which included “sticks more than carrots.” What specific tools are being considered to secure the release of detained Americans and permanent U.S. residents? Does the Administration require any new authorities from Congress to utilize these tools? What is the Administration’s strategy for disincentivizing and deterring foreign governments, particularly Iran, from taking Americans and permanent U.S. residents hostage in the future? READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON–Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Congressman Jamie Raskin (D-MD), and Congressman David Cicilline (D-RI) introduced the Special Counsel Transparency Act, a bill that would preserve the important work of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation in the event that President Trump fires him. Upon introduction, Mr. Lieu said: “Firing Special Counsel Mueller would be an assault on our democracy. The American people have a right to know the findings of this investigation. If the President tries to obstruct justice by firing Mr. Mueller, we have a duty to preserve the integrity of the investigation. This bill does just that. It ensures documents and relevant materials aren’t tampered with or destroyed, and as such allows the investigation to proceed.” Upon introduction, Mr. Doggett said: “Amid President Trump’s ongoing baseless attacks on Special Counsel Robert Mueller, we move ever closer to a crisis that will impact the entire country. As Trump tries to insulate himself from accountability, we must ensure that the Special Counsel’s work is not buried and our democracy is not destroyed. This legislation would ensure that a President, who has shown so little respect for the rule of law, cannot seize and secret any evidence of misconduct already gathered by law enforcement.” Upon introduction, Mr. Raskin said: “We must do everything in our power to stop the Special Counsel from being fired, but if he is fired, we must at all costs prevent the White House or its designees from destroying more than a year’s worth of evidence and work product of the Special Counsel. We must preserve the evidence.” Upon introduction, Mr. Cicilline said: “As President Trump continues to threaten the Special Counsel’s investigation, there is a clear need to ensure he cannot bury any evidence that’s already been uncovered. This bill will preserve Special Counsel Mueller’s work regardless of any action the President takes in the days ahead.” -- The Special Counsel Transparency Act has been endorsed by Open the Government, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, the Sunlight Foundation, and Project on Government Oversight. “The Special Counsel Transparency Act would protect the Special Counsel's investigation by triggering the disclosure of evidence to Congress in the event of the Mueller's dismissal, which helps prevent a cover-up, protects any evidence of wrongdoing, and reasserts Congress's relevance to the investigation, all at the same time,” said John Wonderlich, Executive Director of the Sunlight Foundation. “Congress should carefully consider and then pass this bill, and quickly.” “We strongly support the Special Counsel Transparency Act of 2018, because it’s imperative that Congress exercise its oversight power to see Robert Mueller’s investigation through to the end,” said Open the Government Executive Director Lisa Rosenberg. “All documents that pertain to this investigation must be preserved and conclusions shared, so we can protect our system of checks and balances, ensure the peoples’ right to know, demand accountability if wrongdoing occurred, and increase trust in future elections.” The Special Counsel Transparency Act would: In the event the Special Counsel is removed, require the Special Counsel to provide a report to congressional leadership and the House and Senate Judiciary Committees detailing the status of the investigation and facts found as of the date of dismissal. This report shall include any evidence of criminal activity that implicates the President, any person within the Executive Office of the President, or any political officer, including evidence protected by grand jury secrecy rules. Prohibit the prosecution of the Special Counsel for any disclosures made to Congress pursuant to this bill. Require the Department of Justice to provide a comparable report to Congress detailing the status of the investigation and facts found. ###
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) delivered the following remarks during the Judiciary Committee Markup of the Music Modernization Act. In December, Rep. Lieu joined colleagues in introducing H.R. 4706, the Music Modernization Act, which updates the music licensing system for the first time in almost two decades. In his remarks, Mr. Lieu said: Thank you Mr. Chairman. I want to thank Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Nadler, Congressman Doug Collins, Congressman Hakeem Jeffries, the full committee and particularly our fantastic IP Subcommittee staff for paving the way for this impactful piece of legislation. As the representative for California’s 33rd District, these issues hit close to home. My district is the heart of California’s music industry. It is home to thousands of brilliant songwriters, publishers, engineers, record producers, recording artists, and musicians. I am proud to have worked with such a unique and engaged community. Their input has been invaluable. They make up different threads of the industry’s fabric, but share a common goal of developing solutions to some of the most complex and longstanding copyright issues facing our country. As my colleagues on the Constitution Subcommittee know well, Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution grants Congress the authority “[t]o Promote the Progress of Science and [the] useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.” In other words, Mr. Chairman, this nation is built on the idea that innovation flows when people are able to leverage their creative potential and make a living doing it. Today, we honor that legacy by moving federal music copyright forward to ensure those who create the music we love are compensated for their work, and those who deliver it to us have clear rules of the road and the infrastructure they need to innovate and thrive in the internet age. But creators and streaming services aren’t the only ones who rely on a well-functioning copyright system. A robust and up-to-date Copyright Act is important to everyone – especially the general public – which ultimately benefits from their creative work. I am a proud original cosponsor of this legislation because like my colleagues, I agree it’s time to bring the music industry into the 21st century. I urge my colleagues to vote yes on this bill and with that I yield back, Mr. Chairman. ###
04.05.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the EPA issued a revised memo on Administrator Scott Pruitt's condominium lease. Earlier this week, Reps. Lieu and Beyer sent a letter to the EPA Inspector General urging him to investigate allegations that Administrator Pruitt rented the apartment for below market value. "The revised EPA ethics memo and disclosure of the actual lease terms confirm that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt received an impermissible gift far in excess of federal limits from lobbyists Vicki and Steven Hart. The new ethics memo—which backtracks from the first memo—confirms that average market rate leases were $2,173/month for one-bedroom units and $3,695/per month for two-bedroom units in a comparable geographic location. Administrator Pruitt and his daughter had on-demand access to the bedrooms but only paid a low $50 daily rate, which even if they stayed every day would have been only $1500/month, which is significantly below market rates. But Administrator Pruitt did not even pay $1,500/month, he paid far less: approximately $6,100 over a six-month period, which comes out to only a little over $1,000/month. That means Pruitt received a personal benefit from the two lobbyists of approximately $7,000 to over $15,000 during the six month period based on the below market rate lease. Moreover, the lease as written provided Administrator Pruitt with quiet enjoyment such that he “shall and may peacefully and quietly have, hold and enjoy said Premises for the term hereof.” The lease also allowed Pruitt to “store possessions on the premises.” That means the lobbyists could not rent the premises to another person during the term and, in fact, they did not. The EPA ethics official makes clear that he did not have all the facts and that his two memos are not based on what actually transpired. We know that what actually transpired was that Administrator Pruitt paid far below market rates based on a sweetheart deal with lobbyists that no ordinary citizen could have received. If I were Scott Pruitt I would be regularly refreshing the President's Twitter feed for any updates on my employment status." ###
04.03.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Don Beyer (D-VA) urged Inspector General of the Environmental Protection Agency Arthur Elkins, Jr. to investigate allegations that Administrator Scott Pruitt received a condo lease for below market rate from lobbyists with interests before the EPA. In the letter, Rep. Lieu and Rep. Beyer also request that Inspector General Elkins investigate possible misconduct surrounding the EPA's after-the-fact ethics justification of the lease, specifically inquiring as to whether ethics officials were pressurd into providing approval. In the letter, the Members write: Dear Inspector General Elkins: Thank you for your service. We are writing to request you investigate allegations that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt received a below market rate condominium lease from Vicki and Steven Hart, both of whom are lobbyists. Mr. Hart, who is Chairman of the firm Williams & Jensen, also lobbies on issues over which the EPA has jurisdiction. We also request you investigate possible misconduct surrounding a recent EPA Office of General Counsel after-the-fact ethics justification of the below-market lease that was facially misleading. We believe this Ethics Office opinion merits additional, and independent, review. Specifically, we want to know if Mr. Kevin Minoli – EPA Principal Deputy General Counsel – intentionally wrote a statement that he knew was misleading and whether he was pressured by Administrator Pruitt or anyone else to do so. Administrator Pruitt received a six-month, short-term lease for a condominium approximately one block away from the Capitol from lobbyists Steven and Vicki Hart. The unusual short-term lease allowed Administrator Pruitt access on demand to the furnished condo, but he only had to pay on the days that he used the condo at the rate of just $50 a day. The lease also allowed his daughter to stay at the condo, apparently in a second bedroom. Had Administrator Pruitt stayed every day at the condo, he would have paid $1,500 per month. That is far less than comparable market rents for condominiums within walking distance of the Capitol. ABC reports a comparable lease went for as high as $5,000 a month. A cursory search on Zillow.com shows comparable leases range from $2,600 to over $5,000 in the same general area. But Administrator Pruitt didn't pay $1,500 a month. He paid far less because the unusual lease allowed him to have the condo on demand but he only had to pay for the days he stayed at the condo. Over a period of six months, Administrator Pruitt paid only a total of $6,100 for the furnished condo. This is far below market value and, as such, would constitute an impermissible gift under federal regulations. If the below market lease was given to Administrator Pruitt with the intent to curry favor with him on an issue important to lobbyists Mr. and Mrs. Hart, then it could also be a violation of 18 U.S.C. Section 201. In fact, according to recent reports, the EPA approved the pipeline expansion plan of a Canadian energy company who employed Mr. Hart as a lobbyist at the same time Mr. Pruitt was leasing his condo at a below-market rate. As previously mentioned, EPA official Kevin Minoli wrote a retroactive ethics opinion on March 30, 2018, that $1,500 a month was a reasonable rate. That is false. To determine what would be fair market value, one needs to look at "comparable leases." According to reports, Mr. Pruitt was the only lessee in the three-story, multiple-bedroom condo unit. As set forth above, comparable leases range from $2,600 to over $5,000 per month for a furnished condo within walking distance of the Capitol. In addition, all the comparable leases require the tenant to pay for the entire month regardless of how many days the tenant happens to stay at the condo, and are 12 month leases. Administrator Pruitt did not pay $1,500 per month for 12 months; he paid far less, even though the condo was required to be open to him at any time. The unusual, short-term sweetheart deal that Administrator Pruitt received from Mr. and Mrs. Hart was not just far below market rate, the terms were so skewed in Pruitt's favor that such a lease doesn't even exist on the market for an ordinary citizen. Additionally, the Office of the General Counsel’s memorandum explicitly states, “The lease authorized use by the Administrator and his immediate family, specifically including his spouse and children, and consistent with that provision of the lease his immediate family did stay there when they were in Washington, DC.” This directly contradicts statements made by Vicki Hart, co-owner of the condo, who told ABC News, “The rental agreement was with Scott Pruitt… if other people were using the bedroom or the living quarters, I was never told, and I never gave him permission to do that.” The OGC decision and Hart’s statements cannot simultaneously be true. This discrepancy is further evidence of the need for the EPA Inspector General to conduct an investigation to determine if misconduct or mismanagement led to said OGC decision, and whether the Ethics Office was influenced in any improper manner. Lastly, on March 29, 2017, officials broke down the door of the condo thinking Administrator Pruitt was unresponsive when in fact he was just taking a nap. Taxpayers ended up paying $2,460 to the condo association to fix the door. As part of any Inspector General investigation, we request the Inspector consider possible waste or fraud associated with the decision to lay this cost at the taxpayer’s feet, rather than charge Administrator Pruitt personally. Thank you for your attention to these matters. Sincerely, Ted W. Lieu Don Beyer Member of Congress Member of Congress
04.02.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt announced plans to roll back 2012 fuel efficiency and air pollution standards for automobiles. “The Trump Administration’s goal in rolling back fuel efficiency standards for cars is clear: heed the will of special interests, even at the expense of consumers and the environment. This is a short-sighted attack on the strides the auto industry and environmental advocates have made to develop cars that are clean, efficient and reliable. States like California have shown the path forward. Trump wants to take us backward. In the last few years, we’ve seen companies build autonomous trucks and rockets that land themselves, but the Administration still thinks that pushing for advancements in clean car technology is stifling. It’s simply untrue. Strong car fuel efficiency standards save money and create jobs while protecting the environment. The Union for Concerned Scientists found that strong emission standards would save the average household $2,800 by 2030. More than 288,000 Americans are working on clean car technology, and by 2030, these standards would’ve created 650,000 new jobs in the U.S. Thanks to these standards, we were on track to reduce global warming emissions by 280 million metric tons by 2030. Now we’re looking at halting measurable progress to instead set ourselves up for protracted legal battles and a confusing regulatory environment for automakers and consumers. Ignoring facts and public sentiment is a hallmark of the Trump Administration so it’s no surprise that they’d push for regulatory reforms that consumers didn’t ask for. Even though the last two years were among the hottest on record, the Trump Administration is planning to curtail innovation meant to address climate change. In the process, his rollbacks will hurt Americans’ health and wallets."
03.29.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) led a letter of six Members of Congress to FBI Director Christopher Wray asking him to look into reports that White House Senior Advisor Jared Kushner allegedly leaked classified information to Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman . In the letter, the Members write: Thank you for your service. We write to call your attention to reports that Senior Advisor to the President Jared Kushner may have discussed highly classified information found in the President’s Daily Brief (PDB) with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman. Mr. Kushner allegedly revealed which Saudi royals the U.S. intelligence community deemed to be loyal to the Crown Prince during Mr. Kushner’s unannounced visit to Riyadh last year. If these disturbing reports are true, Jared Kushner likely leaked classified information to a foreign power, a federal crime under 18 U.S. Code 798. We request the FBI open an immediate investigation to determine if these reports are accurate and to explore the extent to which information and sources may have been comprised. As you know, the FBI is charged with ensuring the integrity of classified information in a number of ways, including by investigating unauthorized disclosures of classified information. Such an investigation of Mr. Kushner’s behavior falls well within the Bureau’s purview. You are no doubt aware that while the President has the authority to declassify and share information, the President’s advisors do not. Jared Kushner reportedly lost access to the PDB earlier this year when more stringent security clearance rules were implemented at the behest of White House Chief of Staff John Kelly. In a memo, Mr. Kelly wrote, “The American people deserve a White House staff that meets the highest standards and that has been carefully vetted – especially those who work closely with the President...” Contrary to this sentiment, reports indicate that – while he still had a clearance – Mr. Kushner disclosed to the Saudi Crown Prince information that prompted the Prince to boast to UAE Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed that Mr. Kushner was "in his pocket." READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Ted Yoho (R-FL) announce the introduction of the bipartisan Hack Your State Department Act. The bill will strengthen cyber defenses for the State Department by tapping ethical hackers to identify vulnerabilities in State Department’s networks and data systems. Like the “Hack the Department of Homeland Security Act”, which Rep. Lieu introduced in 2017, this program will rely on a bug bounty system where authorized hackers can enter a State Department system, identify and disclose weaknesses and receive compensation. Additionally, it will establish a Vulnerability Disclosure Program to field vulnerabilities reported by the general public. The Trump Administration's 2017 Report to the President on Federal IT Modernization recommended that agencies establish vulnerability disclosure policies and set up private bug bounty programs. Upon introduction of the bill, Mr. Lieu said: “As one of only four Computer Science majors in Congress, I recognize we have a lot of work to do to ensure the U.S. Government is on the cutting edge of combating cyber threats. We’re a global leader on so many fronts and that should include cybersecurity. I’m proud of this bill because the vulnerability disclosure and bug bounty programs are innovative ways to solve what is one of our government’s most pressing concerns: data security. By capitalizing on the skills of some of the best minds in cybersecurity, as well as the general public, we’ll be able to make sure the State Department is able to safely and securely continue its mission as America’s voice abroad.” Upon introduction of the bill, Mr. Yoho said: “You are only as strong as your weakest link. Vulnerability to cyber-attacks has been and continues to be a serious threat to our national security. It is vital that we do all we can to find the weak links in our government systems and fix them as fast as possible. Hack the State Department enables us to effectively identify our vulnerabilities and use the brightest cybersecurity minds to strengthen our defenses. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, and our cyber defenses must evolve with them.” Support for the Hack Your State Department Bill Katherine Charlet, Director of Carnegie's Technology and International Affairs Program and former Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy - "Executive agency networks are major targets for malicious actors in cyberspace. By using crowdsourcing policies, these agencies can identify and fix critical vulnerabilities. With this bill, Representatives Lieu and Yoho are promoting a cost effective and valuable way to raise the bar for cybersecurity. " Ari Schwartz, Coordinator of Coalition for Cybersecurity Policy and Law and Former Special Assistant to the President for Cybersecurity at the National Security Council -"A properly resourced vulnerability disclosure program can be a valuable component to any organization's cybersecurity plan. We hope this bill from Reps. Lieu and Yoho will encourage more agencies governmentwide to leverage external expertise to enhance security.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL HERE ###
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan outlining key issues that must be addressed when the Trump Administration meets with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. In his letter, Rep. Lieu urges Deputy Secretary Sullivan to prioritize addressing specific challenges in the U.S. relationship with Saudi Arabia including: the war in Yemen, the GCC dispute with Qatar, and the state of human rights in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: I also believe it critical for the Administration to use the high-level meeting to raise specific challenges in our relationship: the war in Yemen, the GCC dispute with Qatar, and the state of human rights in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. These three issues serve as roadblocks in the U.S.-Saudi relationship, and I urge the Administration to be frank with the Crown Prince in pursuit of stronger ties based on shared values and interests. War in Yemen: Three years into this conflict, Yemen remains what the United Nations has called “the world’s worst man-made humanitarian crisis.” Despite recent steps taken by the Saudi military to reduce civilian harm from Saudi-led coalition airstrikes, we continue to see reports of scores of civilian casualties. Additionally, while the Saudis’ Yemen Comprehensive Humanitarian Operations plan seeks to address the vast humanitarian needs throughout the country, the only way to truly address the crisis is to end the war. Unfortunately, both sides lack incentives to end the conflict, and the Saudi-led coalition does not appear to be taking any serious steps to negotiate. As a major supporter of coalition military efforts through mid-air refueling, intelligence sharing and missile sales, it is incumbent on U.S. authorities to work with the Saudis to take the necessary steps to reach a political solution to the conflict. I strongly urge you to press the Crown Prince for his plan to bring about an end to the war in Yemen. I also urge you to request the Crown Prince to work with the international community to investigate fully and fairly all allegations of Saudi coalition airstrikes that struck civilians nowhere near military targets. GCC-Qatar Crisis: I am very disappointed by the continued standoff between our GCC partners, including Saudi Arabia, and Qatar. Notwithstanding any legitimate grievances between the countries, it is important the Gulf remain united in light of Iran’s aggression throughout the region. While CENTCOM leadership has assured Congress that U.S. operations have not been impacted by the crisis, I am concerned that continued efforts to isolate Qatar work directly against U.S. interests. In addition, I am deeply concerned by reports from human rights groups that multi-national families that have been unnecessarily and arbitrarily separated by the isolation campaign. During the visit, I ask that the Administration urge the Crown Prince to quickly bring this period of untimely tension in the Gulf family to a close and emphasize that we will be looking to the Crown Prince for active leadership in ushering Qatar back into the fold. Human Rights: Over the last two years, the Crown Prince has championed efforts to implement economic and social reforms, some of which has been specifically designed to increase the rights of women. However, I remain concerned about many reports of institutional discrimination against religious minorities, continued gender inequality, and the arbitrary detention and trumped-up persecution of political and human rights activists. American alliances across the globe have proven most resilient and effective when they are rooted in a shared understanding of human freedom. The Administration should send a clear signal to Crown Prince Mohammed that the U.S.-Saudi partnership can be placed on firmer footing by taking meaningful steps in this area. I urge you to seek firm and measurable commitments to aggressively improve the human rights landscape in the Kingdom. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Washington Post reported that senior White House officials were allegedly forced into signing lengthy Non-Disclosure Agreements. In 2017, Reps. Lieu and Don Beyer (D-VA) released a resource guide for federal employees who wish to safely and responsibly share information to agency inspectors general and the press. “The President is clearly paranoid. If it’s true that he made senior White House staff sign NDAs, we can probably guess they’re privy to information of public interest. Fortunately, a slapdash NDA like this one is unlikely to be enforceable. Regardless, this move is an affront to government transparency. Whistleblowers should be encouraged to come forward with accounts of governmental misconduct without fear of retaliation. Public scrutiny is often a critical defense against corruption. A strong government with strong leadership should be willing to conduct their business out in the open. As a Member of Congress, my job is to conduct oversight of the federal government—a task made impossible by forced secrecy. ” ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer requesting clarification on the accuracy of President Trump’s assertion that the U.S. has a trade deficit with Canada. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: I write to highlight factual discrepancies between statements by the President of the United States and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) regarding U.S.-Canada trade levels. As a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I need to know if the Canadians and your office are not telling the truth, or if it is the President that is not telling the truth. I respectfully request an urgent clarification from your office. On March 15, 2018, President Trump stated, “We do have a Trade Deficit with Canada, as we do with almost all countries (some of them massive). P.M. Justin Trudeau of Canada, a very good guy, doesn’t like saying that Canada has a Surplus vs. the U.S.(negotiating), but they do...they almost all do...and that’s how I know!” I am alarmed to learn of this alleged trade deficit given that the USTR’s public website states the opposite. According to USTR, the most recent data for the U.S. goods and services trade balance with Canada shows a $12.9 billion surplus. The Canadian Prime Minister also states that the U.S. has a trade surplus, not a deficit, with Canada. Either your office and the Prime Minister of Canada are not telling the truth, or the President is not telling the truth. As the United States continues to work with our regional allies on trade issues, it is critical that Congress–and the public–has clear facts about current U.S. trade levels. I request that USTR immediately clarify whether the U.S.-Canada goods and services trade balance has suddenly tanked by over $12 billion and turned into a deficit. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles), a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and Daniel Webster (R-FL), a member of the House Natural Resources committee, introduced the bipartisan Sustainable Shark Fisheries and Trade Act, which would require nations to meet U.S. conservation and management standards before exporting shark products to the U.S. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration would certify that countries have established certain policies including the prohibition of shark finning and science-based management to prevent overfishing. In 2017, Mr. Lieu introduced a bill to eliminate the sale of shark parts in the United States. Upon introduction of this bill, Mr. Lieu said: “U.S. shark fisheries are governed by some of the strongest science-based conservation regulations in the world. Accordingly, we should be leading the charge to counsel other nations in proper shark management. Preventing exploitation in global fisheries helps safeguard our ocean’s delicate ecosystem and can help promote the humane treatment of shark populations. I’m proud to introduce this bill with Rep. Webster because the U.S. should be leading the charge on environmental conservation efforts. We have a responsibility to disincentivize the trade of unsustainably or illegally harvested shark fins and other shark products.” ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Jared Polis (D-CO) are leading a letter signed by a bipartisan group of 14 Members urging Congressional leadership to prohibit millions of taxpayer dollars from being appropriated to support the Drug Enforcement Administration’s wasteful Domestic Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program. Because shifting attitudes have led more states to legalize or decriminalize cannabis, the Members are calling on Speaker Paul Ryan, Leader Nancy Pelosi, Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen and Appropriations Ranking Member Nita Lowey to reduce funding for the DEA’s ineffective and unnecessary program. In January, Rep. Lieu reintroduced legislation to curb civil asset forfeiture funds from being used by the DEA for cannabis eradication. In the letter, the Members write: Throughout the country, states are increasingly turning away from marijuana prohibition and enacting alternative policies to lower crime rates, free up limited law enforcement resources, and keep drugs out of the hands of children. To date, nine states and the District of Columbia have legalized recreational marijuana, and 29 states and the District of Columbia now allow marijuana for medical use. There has also been a great deal of movement on the science behind marijuana, and consequently, the marijuana policy landscape in Congress has shifted to more closely match the needs of the states we represent. In 2015, by a voice vote, the House of Representatives passed House Amendment 296 to H.R. 2578, the Commerce, Justice, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016. This commonsense amendment targeted $9 million dollars in the Cannabis Eradication Program in the DEA budget and redistributed it to three accounts that play a far more useful role in promoting the safety and economic prosperity of the American people: the Violence Against Women Act Youth-Oriented Program, the Victims of Child Abuse program, and the Spending Reduction Account. Last year, many of us introduced a similar amendment to H.R. 3354, the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018. The amendment again reduced funding for the DEA by $9 million to eliminate the Cannabis Eradication Program, but the savings were directed to deficit reduction. Consequently, the Congressional Budget Office scored the amendment as reducing budget authority by $9 million and reducing outlays by $7 million in Fiscal Year 2018. Despite both the Cannabis Eradication Program’s proven ineffectiveness and the seismic shift in attitudes on marijuana policy within Congress and across our nation, the DEA continues to spend millions of taxpayer dollars on this program, spending $22 million in 2015 alone. There is no justification for spending this kind of money on an antiquated program never shown to be effective. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after the White House announced the appointment of Larry Kudlow as the head of the White House National Economic Council. In 2002, Mr. Kudlow wrote an op-ed about the Iraq war arguing that “the shock therapy of decisive war will elevate the stock market by a couple-thousand points.” “As a veteran, I’m appalled to think that the person who will now drive our nation’s economic policy has argued that war is good for business. Our service members are brave patriots, not equity on a shareholder report. In an administration that has already been fraught with disastrous policy decisions, I worry about someone who thinks this way having the President’s ear. Entering into conflict has to be a last resort—and should never be evaluated primarily on its economic merits. Mr. Kudlow’s fringe ideas don’t deserve a place in the White House.” ###
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, issued the following statement after the White House announced that it would be replacing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. “The chaos of the Trump Administration continues. America exhibits strength by demonstrating resolute unity abroad. Under the Trump Administration, our diplomatic efforts have been marred by President Trump’s haphazard and bumbling leadership that led to policy reversals and mixed messages. Trump undercut his Secretary of State so much that no one knew whose views the Secretary of State was representing. There is no evidence this will change with another Secretary of State. Trump can switch out his Administration officials another ten times but it’s not going to change the damage he’s already done to our image abroad.” ###
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to the National Rifle Association seeking an explanation regarding reports that allege the NRA may have received unlawful contributions or assistance from Russian individuals with links to the Kremlin. It is illegal for foreign individuals to make contributions in U.S. elections. Mr. Lieu, a member of the Judiciary Committee, is requesting that the NRA explain potential connections to or associations with Russian-linked individuals in an effort to better understand the scope of Russian interference in the 2016 election. In the letter, Rep. Lieu writes: It is deeply disturbing that an organization like the NRA, whose stated purpose and objective is to “protect and defend the Constitution,” would meet with sanctioned individuals connected to a foreign adversary that seems determined to undermine our elections.More troubling is that Torshin and Rudov appear to be further intertwined with other Russian individuals seeking to destabilize our democracy. At the same time Torshin’s NRA delegation met with Rudov and Rogozin, the now infamous dinner hosted by Russia Today was taking place. Alongside General Michael Flynn and Russian President Vladimir Putin, Konstantin Malofeev – founder of the aforementioned St. Basil Foundation – attended the dinner. Malofeev is also the co-founder of CFG Marshall, where Torshin sits on the advisory board. Malofeev is close with the Russian government and with the former director of the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies, which reportedly developed plans to help elect Trump. This complex web of Russian officials, NRA officials, and Trump campaign associates raises serious concerns. I respectfully request a response to each of the following questions: Did any NRA officials communicate with Torshin or any other Russian-linked individuals about efforts to interfere in the 2016 U.S. Presidential election? If so, was anyone associated with the Trump campaign aware of those communications? Did any NRA officials communicate with Torshin or any other Russian-linked individuals about efforts to interfere in the 2016 U.S. congressional elections? If so, was anyone associated with any congressional office or campaign, including the House Speaker and Senate Leader, aware of those communications? Did the NRA facilitate any meetings or communications between Trump campaign associates and Torshin or any other Russia-linked individuals? Did the NRA receive any money from Russia or Russia-linked individuals or entities during the 2016 election cycle? If so, did the NRA use any of that money in their 2016 election campaign contributions? Did any NRA officials discuss money laundering or the funneling of money from Russia to the NRA? Has anyone at the NRA been contacted by the FBI related to its investigation into interference in the 2016 election? In January 2017, the U.S. intelligence community announced with certainty that the Russian government interfered in our election. This interference is a direct threat to our democracy, and it is critical that we have a full understanding of Russia’s tactics so that we can hold those involved accountable and safeguard future elections. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the Department of Justice is suing California to block state legislation. “This vindictive lawsuit shows that, once again, the Trump Administration’s guiding principle is to wreak havoc at all costs. When AG Sessions and President Trump claim that undocumented immigrants make our communities less safe, they’re wrong. In fact, studies show that documented and undocumented immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than U.S.-born citizens. If undocumented individuals who are victims of or witnesses to a crime fear being deported, they’re less likely to report crimes or work with local officials. California recognizes that situation makes everyone less safe. We have to trust the judgement of our local leaders and honor their right to create laws meant to ensure the safety of their residents. California gets this, but apparently the Trump Administration does not.” ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON – This week, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Rob Joyce, Cybersecurity Coordinator for the National Security Council, about the Administration’s recently released Vulnerabilities Equities Policies and Process (VEP), the NSC’s official guidance for the decisionmaking process regarding disclosure of cybersecurity vulnerabilities to the public. The VEP is a crucial part of our country’s national security. The VEP dictates the careful balancing act the intelligence community must follow in order to weigh the costs and benefits of exposing a vulnerability and allowing it to be patched, or maintaining it for possible exploitation. In the letter, Congressman Lieu writes: As you may know, I introduced the PATCH Act with a bipartisan, bicameral group of Members of Congress in May 2017 specifically to bring transparency to the government’s decision-making process regarding when and how to disclose vulnerabilities and accountability to the VEP’s results. The November 2017 policy represents an important step toward accomplishing the former goal. I am pleased to see clarity over which agencies have a seat at the table, ranging from Department of Defense to the Department of Commerce. I also appreciate that the framework takes into account the United States’ international relationships and commitments. However, the new policy lacks the critical piece of accountability to give the American people full confidence in the government’s decision-making on vulnerability disclosure. In Section 4.3 (“Annual Reporting”), the policy states, “As part of a commitment to transparency, annual reporting maybe provided to the Congress” (emphasis added). The ultimate success of the VEP hinges on whether the results of the government’s opaque decision-making on vulnerability disclosure can be audited by Congress to ensure the desired policy is being achieved. Given the VEP document’s extant language, I respectfully request responses to the following questions: Will your office commit to providing annual reports to Congress? Will a report for 2017 be included in the inaugural report to Congress? The VEP is dependent upon departmental and agency cooperation and participation. Without buy-in from U.S. Government entities, the VEP is fundamentally stunted. Can you clarify what authorities the VEP Director has at his or her disposal to ensure agencies are complying with the reporting requirements to the Equities Review Board? READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE # # #
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Joaquin Castro (D-TX) urged Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to explain why the State Department has not used any of the resources Congress allocated with bipartisan support in 2017 to counter foreign propaganda designed to influence elections and undermine democracies. In the letter, the Congressmen ask the Secretary why State has not enacted Congress’s bipartisan directive to address foreign disinformation campaigns. In the letter, the Members write: As you know, Section 1287 of the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act authorized the Global Engagement Center (GEC) at the Department of State to lead the U.S. government’s efforts to identify, expose and counter foreign state disinformation efforts aimed at undermining U.S. national security interests. The provision also authorized the transfer of $120 million from the Department of Defense to support this effort. This effort grew out of bipartisan, bicameral legislation introduced by members of the House Foreign Affairs and Senate Foreign Relations Committees which specifically highlighted the threat of Russia. According to the New York Times, the Department under your leadership has failed to spend a single dollar towards this effort. These reports also indicate that the Department has chosen not to adequately staff the GEC. Alarmingly, not one of the 23 analysts speak Russian, the language of one of the top sponsors of disinformation campaigns in the world. Following the Intelligence Community’s assessment that the Russian government engaged in a coordinated campaign to interfere and undermine U.S. elections in 2016, it is simply a dereliction of duty to ignore this threat. From Russia’s actions in Ukraine to election interference in the United States’ elections and those of our allies, foreign disinformation campaigns do more than simply spread anti-Western sentiment. Such campaigns manipulate public perception to change the facts on the ground, subvert democracy and undermine U.S. interests. The Department’s lack of spending for the GEC is yet another example of the Trump administration’s failure to use the tools Congress provides to adequately respond to Russia’s 2016 election interference and counter its efforts to subvert our upcoming elections in November. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE # # #
03.02.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D-NY) requested that FBI Director Christopher Wray open an investigation into two questionable payments made by President Trump’s longtime associates during the election. Just before the election, President Trump’s longtime personal lawyer Michael Cohen made a $130,000 payment to Stephanie Clifford, who allegedly had an affair with President Trump, as a way to buy her silence. Similarly, the National Enquirer paid Karen McDougal, another person who allegedly had an affair with Mr. Trump, $150,000 for her story, only to never publish it. If these allegations of improper payments are true, they could represent marked violations of Federal Election laws. In the letter, the Members write: As Members of Congress, we are troubled by these payments because they are evidence of moral failings by the President. As former prosecutors, we believe these payments may be felonies. Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer and a former Executive Vice President of the Trump Organization, has admitted to paying $130,000 out of his own pocket to pornographic film actress Stephanie Clifford (a.k.a. Stormy Daniels), who allegedly had an affair with Trump. The payment was made in October 2016 purportedly to keep her silent about the affair. The New York Times has reported that Stormy Daniels “is one of at least two women who claimed to have had affairs with Mr. Trump but who were kept silent through legal agreements.” The second questionable payment is to former Playboy centerfold model Karen McDougal. American Media Inc., the owner of National Enquirer, allegedly paid $150,000 to Ms. McDougal on August 5, 2016, to buy her silence. The CEO and Chairman of A.M.I., David Pecker, describes Trump as “a personal friend.” According to the The New Yorker, “purchasing a story in order to bury it is a practice that many in the tabloid industry call ‘catch and kill.’” The company does not deny killing Ms. McDougal’s story, nor does it deny purchasing her story. Jerry George, a former editor at A.M.I., stated that Pecker protected Trump and that “we never printed a word about Trump without his approval.” Payments to silence individuals with negative information about then-candidate Trump may violate federal election laws. The Federal Election Campaign Act (FECA) prevents companies, other than through a political action committee, from contributing to a federal campaign and puts a strict $5,400 limit for individual contributions. A contribution is defined as “anything of value given, loaned or advanced to influence a federal election.” Such contributions also include in-kind contributions. As the FEC states, “An expenditure made by any person or entity in cooperation, consultation or concert with, or at the request or suggestion of, a candidate’s campaign is also considered an in-kind contribution to the candidate.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) introduced two bills to protect consumers by safeguarding their data and ensuring victims of data breaches can hold companies accountable in court. The “Protecting Consumer Information Act of 2018” will expand the Federal Trade Commission’s enforcement authority over credit reporting agencies. The “Ending Forced Arbitration for Victims of Data Breaches Act” will prohibit entities from enacting arbitration clauses for suits related to a data breach, and empowers the FTC, State Attorneys General and citizens to have their day in court. Together, these bills will ensure that the Federal Government has the tools necessary to compel companies to protect consumer financial data and enables victims of data breaches to seek recourse. Today, Equifax announced that an additional 2.4 million Americans had their data stolen in the September breach. “When companies have access to sensitive personal data, they have a considerable responsibility to keep that data safe. Just today, Equifax announced that an additional 2.4 million Americans were impacted by last September’s data breach. Those Americans now join the 145 million consumers who have had their privacy and personal data compromised. Months later, we’re still learning about the breadth of this breakdown in consumer protections. That’s unacceptable. I’m honored to introduce these bills to ensure that the U.S. government has the tools necessary to protect consumers. After the initial news broke about the breach, Equifax tried to strong-arm victims who signed up for Equifax’s credit monitoring service into giving up their right to sue, forcing those victims into arbitration. By stopping victims from having their day in court, companies enacting mandatory arbitration clauses cannot be held responsible by consumers. Data breaches such has this one have made millions of Americans vulnerable because their sensitive information—including social security numbers, birth dates and addresses—could be used in identity theft and other fraudulent behavior. Credit reporting agencies must be held accountable when they fail to keep sensitive data safe. Together, these bills forge a path forward that can both prevent future breaches and ensure victims can seek due process when they occur.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE PROTECTING CONSUMER INFORMATION BILL HERE READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE FORCED ARBITRATION BILL HERE Endorsed By: American Association for Justice (AAJ), Public Citizen, Public Knoweldge ###
02.27.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, following news reports that President Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and other White House aides working under interim security clearances will have their clearances downgraded over outstanding security concerns, Representative Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Representatives Ted Lieu (D-CA) and Jamie Raskin (D-MD) issued the following joint statement: “It’s about time that the security needs of our country were put ahead of the nepotism of President Trump and his willingness to have unqualified individuals in the White House. The fact that, for over a year, unqualified individuals around the President were permitted high levels of classified information access is astonishing, and we will continue to press the Administration for answers to these and other national security questions. While downgrading Jared Kushner’s security clearance is a good first step, it does not go far enough. Mr. Kushner should not have any type of clearance so long as his application remains under review for security concerns.” ###
02.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) led eight Members of Congress in sending a second letter asking Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner to explain whether he has used his position to seek financial bailouts for 666 Fifth Avenue, a property owned by Kushner Cos. The Members first sent a letter to Mr. Kushner on Dec. 6, and have yet to receive a response. Yesterday, CNN reported that Special Counsel Robert Mueller is looking into whether Mr. Kushner was securing financing for Kushner Cos. from foreigners during the Presidential transition. “The questions we’ve been asking are pretty simple: Did he have any discussions with foreign nationals about 666 Fifth Avenue? And, if so, did he discuss anything related to helping finance, purchase, or assist with the debt on 666 Fifth Avenue. The longer we wait for a response, the more it seems like Mr. Kushner has something to hide.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D – Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Justice Department’s Special Counsel announced the indictment of 13 Russians implicated in a wide-ranging scheme to interfere with the 2016 election. “As a former prosecutor, I recognize that these indictments echo what intelligence officials have been saying for over a year about Russia’s dangerous and aggressive campaign to interfere in our elections. Russia’s broad efforts to destabilize our democracy cannot succeed so long as we, regardless of which side of the aisle we’re on, wholeheartedly condemn Russia’s actions. I hope this puts to rest in President Trump’s mind once and for all that Russia is not our ally and Vladimir Putin is not our friend. It’s more important than ever to confront and stop misinformation campaigns and put resources behind improving election security moving forward. I implore President Trump to allow the Justice Department and Special Counsel Mueller to continue their investigation to ensure we can understand the full scope of this interference. Also, President Trump's refusal to implement bipartisan congressional sanctions on Russia looks more and more suspicious." ###
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after it was reported that FBI Director Christopher Wray discussed the counterintelligence threat of Chinese nationals in the U.S. academic sector during a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing. “There are certain policies and actions by our government that, while directed at foreign nationals, could affect Americans who happen to be of certain ethnicities. In this case, tarring Chinese foreign national students en masse as being more suspicious is overbroad and will also feed into the false and harmful narrative that somehow Chinese-Americans are more suspicious. It is this false narrative that contributed to the wrongful indictments of Chinese-Americans like Sherry Chen and Professor Xiaoxing Xi. I worked on those cases last year and helped cause the Department of Justice to change its policies to help make sure Chinese-Americans are not targeted by law enforcement because of their ethnicity. I called on FBI Director Wray to clarify his comments and make a strong statement that Chinese-Americans are not viewed by the FBI as any more suspicious than any other American. I also have a suggestion for the Trump Administration. Before spending a lot of time and resources looking at foreign nationals allegedly getting publicly available information, perhaps the Administration should first crack down on the over 130 Americans in the White House who still don’t have permanent security clearances and are inappropriately viewing highly classified non-public information.” ###
02.14.2018	WASHINGTON– Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-MD) introduced the “Commonsense Legislation Ensuring Accountability by Reporting Access of Non-Cleared Employees to Secrets (CLEARANCES)" Act that would require the White House to regularly report the status of security clearance holders working in the Executive Office of the President. Under existing law, the President can choose to keep employees on staff with interim security clearances indefinitely without notifying Congress. The CLEARANCES Act would serve to create more accountability and oversight of who has access to classified information. Upon introduction, Mr. Lieu said: “As we’ve seen, transparency hasn’t come so easy to the Trump White House. White House officials have repeatedly contradicted themselves on whether they allowed Rob Porter to have an interim security clearance despite concerns over allegations of domestic abuse. Aside from the moral failings, we’re looking at potentially dangerous breaches in our national security protocols. What’s worse is that, despite our oversight duties, Members of Congress have no mechanism to figure out who in the White House has access to classified information and whether they are doing so under an interim clearances. I’ve asked, time and again, why people like Jared Kushner have security clearances despite repeatedly failing to properly disclose information on clearance forms. By using interim security clearances, the White House is circumventing an essential process that ensures government officials handling classified information are not vulnerable to blackmail or manipulation. As Members of Congress, we have a duty to ensure that classified information is properly safeguarded.” Upon introduction, Mr. Nadler said: “The Trump White House continues to show a blatant disregard for the security of this country. The security clearance vetting process is meant to ensure the safety and security of every American and maintain the integrity of our government. By refusing to take that responsibility seriously—to frivolously ignore the concerns raised by investigators and feed classified information to staffers who pose a potential danger to national security—Donald Trump has again abused the trust of the American people and placed our security at risk. It falls to Congress to reestablish that trust, which is why this legislation is so critical to our nation.” Upon introduction, Mr. Cummings said: “Congress needs answers about the White House’s dysfunctional security clearance process, but the Trump Administration refuses to turn over information. This legislation will hold the White House accountable and ensure at least some transparency for how the President is handling our nation’s most closely guarded secrets.” ###
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON– Today, Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and Don Beyer (D-VA) wrote to FBI Director Christopher Wray requesting detailed information regarding the White House’s security clearance approval process. The letter follows reports that potentially dozens of senior Trump Administration officials who lack a permanent clearance may currently be accessing highly classified materials that they are not authorized to handle or possess. In the letter, the Members write: Dear Director Wray: It has come to our attention that several individuals in the Executive Office of the President (EOP) are handling classified information without permanent security clearances and/or positive adjudications of background checks required for their employment at the White House. As you know, interim security clearances typically authorize disclosure of information classified at the SECRET level. Access to TOP SECRET and specialized compartments of extreme sensitivity requires favorable adjudication of the full security clearance process. Due to the seniority of several White House officials who reportedly have not received positive security clearance adjudications and the extremely sensitive information that the President must receive in order to do his job, we are concerned that individuals who do not have – and may never receive – proper clearances nevertheless have access to view and handle such information. In light of this concern, please provide within 30 days of transmission of this letter answers to the following questions: How many clearances are the FBI, National Background Investigations Bureau, OPM, the CIA, and/or any other U.S. Government Department or Agency currently processing for individuals working in the EOP? What is the total number of EOP clearances? What is the total number of EOP clearances deemed “interim” or otherwise “temporary?” Please include information for individuals both employed directly by the EOP and detailed to the EOP from other organizations within the U.S. Government, universities, think tanks, and/or the private sector. What is the procedure for recovering SECRET or other sensitive information disclosed to a security clearance candidate that fails to receive a positive security clearance adjudication? What is the procedure for terminating employment for a security clearance candidate that fails to receive a positive security clearance adjudication? What is the procedure for granting an interim security clearance to an employee who could reasonably be expected to encounter compartmentalized or codeword-classified information due to the nature of his position? What is the process for extending an interim security clearance beyond the two standard 180 day periods? Please include approval authority, both within the EOP or other requesting agency and within the approval agency. Can an individual be granted an “interim” or otherwise “temporary” security clearance that grants her access to information classified at the TOP SECRET or compartmentalized level? If answers to the above questions are classified or contain personally identifiable information, we will be pleased to host you or your designate in appropriate, secure spaces in Congress. As you know, unauthorized disclosure of CONFIDENTIAL information can be expected to cause damage to national security. Unauthorized disclosure of SECRET information can be expected to cause serious damage to national security. Unauthorized disclosure of TOP SECRET information can be expected to cause exceptionally grave damage to national security. For this reason, any systemic, known, or otherwise inappropriate disclosure of classified information to unsuitable, insecure, or unauthorized persons represents a major security threat. This threat exists whether or not those persons are employed at the White House. Thank you for your careful consideration of our concerns, and thank you for your service to the Nation. ###
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after FBI Director Christopher Wray's testimony before the Senate contradicted previous White House assertions that they were not aware that former Staff Secretary Rob Porter had been accused of domestic abuse until recently. Rep. Lieu sits on the House Judiciary committee, which has oversight over the FBI and the Department of Justice. "FBI Director Christopher Wray's testimony contradicts the timeline set forth by the White House on when they knew about Rob Porter's domestic violence and security clearance issues. It is one thing to lie about stupid stuff like inauguration crowd size. But peddling falsehoods about highly sensitive matters such as a top White House official's domestic abuse and security clearance issues has grave national security implications. The security clearance process ensures government officials handling classified information are not vulnerable to blackmail or manipulation. Prior to serving in Congress, I went through two security clearance investigations to get my security clearances. Those of us who hold security clearances are mortified by the mockery the White House has made of the process. We continue to have no clarity on this matter from the White House, which is terrifying as much as it’s unsurprising.” ###
02.11.2018	LOS ANGELES – On Saturday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) hosted the Third Annual Multi-District Service Academy Day at the Los Angeles Air Force Base in El Segundo. Attendees heard speakers from the United States Air Force Academy, United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Service Academy Day offers prospective service academy students and their parents the opportunity to speak with representatives from service academies and ask questions about the admissions process. In attendance were Reps. Karen Bass (D-CA), Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Lucille Royball-Allard and Nanette Diaz-Barragan. “It was my honor to once again host our Service Academy Day in Los Angeles. I was encouraged to see that there are so many talented young people who want to serve our nation and attend one of our prestigious service academies. These academies and their students represent the best the United States has to offer and it is my great pleasure to help prospective students learn more about them.” ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the White House declined to release the Democratic House Intelligence Committee memo. This memo was created in response to Chairman Nunes’ memo, which was released last week and failed to include material facts about the FBI’s Russia investigation. Rep. Lieu sits on the House Judiciary committee, which has oversight over the FBI, the Department of Justice and the authorization of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). “It’s clear that something about the Democratic memo scares the White House. Perhaps it’s because, instead of cherry picking information like the Nunes memo, this one lays bare what we’ve been saying all along: the FBI probe is credible and should continue without interference. This whole memo debacle was manufactured by the GOP to discredit and undermine the Russia investigation. The American public deserves the whole truth and Trump’s actions obscure the truth. I read the memo and an innocent person would have released it.”
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) sent a letter to House Committee on Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce calling for a hearing on the authority to order the use of nuclear weapons. In 2017, Rep. Lieu reintroduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation (H.R. 669) to underscore Congress’s role in deciding to launch a nuclear first strike, which is an act of war that only Congress can authorize. A hearing would provide the opportunity to debate this issue, particularly in light of President Trump’s statements about using that authority. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: As you know, our Founders created a government based on checks and balances and designed a Constitution that gave the power to declare war solely to the people’s representatives. A nuclear first strike, which can kill hundreds of millions of people and invite a retaliatory strike that can cripple America, is war. Yet under existing law, the president has unilateral authority to launch a nuclear attack. As President Nixon reportedly told a group of Congressmen during his administration, “I could leave this room and in 25 minutes 70 million people would be dead.” The threat of such unconstrained authority is not theoretical. On January 2, 2018, President Trump tweeted, “North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un just stated that the ‘Nuclear Button is on his desk at all times.’ Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!” This statement came only months after he threatened North Korea in August 2017 with “fire and fury like the world has never seen.” The president’s remarks over the past year have raised bipartisan concern in Congress and among our community of national security experts. On November 14, 2017, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee held a hearing on “Authority to Order the Use of Nuclear Weapons.” That hearing was followed this month by an open letter to Congress from over a dozen former nuclear launch officers who wrote, “There are no reliable safeguards” on the president’s unilateral authority and that such authority “should not rest in the hands of any one person.” This position has also been echoed by a former Secretary of Defense, William J. Perry, who has stated, “Certainly a decision that momentous for all of civilization should have the kind of checks and balances on Executive powers called for by our Constitution.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) led a letter with Reps. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD) and Brenda Lawrence (D-MI) asking White House Chief of Staff John Kelly to explain when he had knowledge of the allegations of domestic abuse by White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter and the actions he took given that knowledge. According to reports, Mr. Porter’s alleged abusive behavior was the reason he was unable to secure a permanent security clearance, yet apparently Mr. Kelly defended him, promoted him, and urged him to stay. In the letter, the Members write: We are especially troubled by reports that after the Federal Bureau of Investigation learned of Mr. Porter’s abusive behavior and the protective order last year and reported it to the White House, you and other Administration officials decided to keep him on the White House staff. We are also appalled by your dismissive statement, following the first reports of abuse allegations, that Rob Porter is a “man of true integrity” and that you were “proud to serve alongside him.” According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, “More than 10 million Americans are victims of physical violence annually.” Furthermore, “20 people are victims of physical violence every minute in the United States and 76 percent of intimate partner physical violence victims are female; 24 percent are male.” The alleged behavior exhibited by Mr. Porter has no place in our society. It is a stain on the White House and an insult to all of the women and men who have been victimized by domestic abusers. Finally, Mr. Porter’s behavior – which resulted in his inability to obtain a permanent security clearance – signals a breakdown in operational security as well as moral integrity. Federal law enforcement sources indicate that Mr. Porter was unable to obtain a permanent clearance because of allegations of domestic violence levied against him by his two ex-wives. As White House Chief of Staff, you are intimately involved in the hiring and subsequent management of senior level presidential personnel. As such, we respectfully request responses to the following questions: When did you learn of the allegations that Mr. Porter had abused one or both of his ex-wives? After you learned of these allegations, did you take any steps to remove or suspend Mr. Porter from the White House staff? At any point after you learned of these allegations, did you encourage Mr. Porter to remain on staff? At any point after you learned of these allegations, did you offer Mr. Porter a promotion or expand his responsibilities? Were you aware that Mr. Porter was unable to obtain a permanent security clearance, or was not in possession of a permanent clearance during his time at the White House? Why was Mr. Porter allowed to handle and view our nation’s most sensitive materials without a permanent security clearance? Everything about these troubling reports violates American moral values, ethical principles, and core tenets of national security. It is imperative that Congress and the American people construct a clear timeline of events in order to preserve the integrity of the Office of the President. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Ruben Gallego (D I Arizona), both military veterans, wrote to Defense Secretary James Mattis urging him to “impress upon President Trump that holding a military parade in our nation’s capital would be a frivolous, unnecessary exercise that could harm America’s image.” The letter follows reports that the Pentagon is planning a parade showcasing American military hardware at Trump’s urging. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Gallego write: “It has come to our attention that President Trump has urged the Pentagon to organize a parade in the coming months to showcase U.S. military equipment. We are concerned that such a spectacle would be counterproductive and strongly believe it should not be held. First, a parade of this kind would represent a significant waste of tax dollars. At a time when Congress is wrestling with how best to recapitalize our military and better protect the force after 17 years of war in Afghanistan and Iraq, resources should be deployed to enhance military readiness and warfighting, not wasted on such a pointless display. Second, no one in the world doubts the strength of our military or the professionalism of our men and women in uniform. A parade will not alter that perception. Instead, it will likely prompt ridicule from our friends and foes alike. It should go without saying that just because authoritarian regimes like Russia and North Korea hold massive military parades does not mean that we must as well. Finally, we are concerned that this spectacle will send the wrong message to a global audience. We believe American exceptionalism is rooted in the power of our democratic ideals, not of our military hardware. Thank you for your service to the Nation. We urge you to impress upon President Trump that holding a military parade in our nation’s capital would be a frivolous, unnecessary exercise that could harm America’s image. We look forward to your response.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
02.05.2018	LOS ANGELES – On Saturday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) joined local lawmakers and environmental groups to express their opposition to offshore drilling in the Pacific Ocean. The event, which was hosted at the Santa Monica Pier by Sen. Ben Allen, featured a broad coalition of local leaders committed to keeping coastal ecosystems safe. Federal officials in attendance included Congresswomen Nanette Diaz Barragan (D-CA) and Maxine Waters (D-CA). “This gathering represents exactly the kind of fervor we need to stop harmful offshore drilling on our coasts. Offshore drilling creates extraordinary safety concerns for coastal communities and ecosystems. Instead of fighting climate change and looking at wind, tidal and wave energy development, the Trump administration’s offshore drilling proposal would turn our coasts into a game of risk. We’ve seen how devastating oil spills can be. In 2015, a pipeline ruptured at Refugio State Beach in Santa Barbara spilling more than 100,000 gallons of crude oil into the ocean. The disaster killed 99 mammals, including sea lions, and 202 birds. It also resulted in the closure of several beaches in Los Angeles. We should be making every effort to reduce the risks of disaster, not increase them. Everyone who is committed to protecting our environment can make their voices heard. I joined Sens. Feinstein, Harris and other California Members of Congress in sending a letter to Interior Secretary Zinke requesting he offer Californians an opportunity to offer input on the plan. We have to do everything in our power to oppose this potentially devastating plan.”
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the White House approved releasing the House GOP’s “Nunes memo” without the companion Democratic memo. Rep. Lieu sits on the House Judiciary committee, which has oversight over the FBI, the Department of Justice and the authorization of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Rep. Lieu also joined his Democratic colleagues on the Judiciary Committee in issuing a joint statement excoriating the release of this memo as a grave disservice to American intelligence officials and the public. "The Nunes memo omits significant material facts in an attempt to blatantly mislead the public. That is why the Democratic memo, which provides the omitted facts, must be released. When the American people see the facts that Trump and Nunes are trying to hide, the people will be angry at the President and the GOP, and proud of the professionals at the FBI and DOJ. But even with the misleading assertions in the Nunes memo, it’s important to know what the memo doesn’t say. It doesn’t say the relevant parts of the dossier are false. It doesn’t say the Russia investigation would not have started but for the dossier. It doesn’t say the FISA judge did not have probable cause to issue a surveillance order on Carter Page. It doesn’t say anyone at the FBI or DOJ violated the FISA law. Rather than undermine Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation, the Nunes memo has done exactly the opposite. The release of this memo shows a desperate President and his enablers trying to undermine and obstruct an investigation because it is getting closer to arriving at the truth of what happened in 2016." ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) issued the following statement ahead of the State of the Union. The President is expected to address infrastructure in his speech. “If President Trump is serious about a bipartisan infrastructure plan, he’d be smart to look at our proposal, first introduced in May 2017, calling for a bold investment in our nation’s infrastructure. The plan currently has 153 Democrats signed on, which is more than 75 percent of the Democratic Caucus. Additionally, the Congressional Progressive Caucus and I are calling for a $2 trillion infrastructure investment over 10 years, which would employ 2.5 million Americans in its first year. If Trump wants a bipartisan solution to rebuild our transportation, water, energy, and information systems, while massively overhauling our country’s unsafe public buildings, we’ve got the plan for him.” ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after it was reported that the Trump Administration may not be implementing new sanctions on Russia as required by a bill passed by Congress in 2017.. “It is deeply alarming the Trump Administration has reportedly refused to implement new sanctions on Russia. President Trump is thwarting the overwhelming, bipartisan will of Congress to hold Russia accountable for interfering in our elections. What does Putin have on Trump? I call on the House Foreign Affairs Committee to request Secretary of State Rex Tillerson publicly testify before the Committee and the American people." ###
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Republicans failed to fund the government before the deadline. “Trump—despite his crassness, lack of experience governing and showboating—was supposed to be our dealmaker-in-chief. Instead, he rejected a bipartisan deal on DACA and has refused to ensure our military has the long-term certainty of an actual budget. We have a Republican House, Senate and White House and yet they can’t govern. It’s time they stop using our hallowed institutions as a political pawn.” ###
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, California Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County), Jared Huffman (D-CA) and Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) led a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke opposing the Administration’s offshore drilling plan. The letter, which is signed by 36 Members of the California delegation, urges Sec. Zinke to remove California and other states from the plan citing his department’s rationale in exempting Florida. Local leaders from California and across the country have vocalized opposition to offshore drilling, citing considerable economic and environmental concerns. In the letter, the Members write: California coasts are highly reliant on tourism as an economic driver. In fact, California’s ocean economy and the sector dependent on tourism and recreation are both larger than those of Florida. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in 2014, the ocean economy contributed $41.9 billion to California’s gross domestic product, nearly half of which came from the tourism and recreation industries. California’s ocean economy is unique and so important that in 2015 the federal government did an entire study showing the important of it not just to California, but to our nation. California and other states also cannot afford to allow expanded offshore drilling that will threaten the vitality of these industries. In 1969, we saw the Santa Barbara oil spill spew approximately 4.2 million gallons of oil into the ocean, devastating recreation, property, the fishing industry, and wildlife. If we open the Pacific to additional leases, it is not a question of if, but when the next disaster will occur. You noted that your decision to exclude Florida was due in part to the concerns of Florida government officials. We agree that this decision must consider “local and state voices,” but this sudden exemption to Florida, without any action to address the previous opposition from the state of California, makes a mockery of the requirements of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Last week, the governors of California, Oregon and Washington again issued a statement expressing our states’ firm opposition to the expansion of oil and gas leases in the Pacific. Additionally, dozens of Members of Congress from California, Oregon, and Washington sent you a letter in August 2017 conveying the same position. Under your rationale, California and other similarly situated states must also be exempted from the Five-Year Plan. Otherwise, this appears to be a purely politically-motivated decision. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House passed the Cyber Diplomacy Act (H.R. 3776), which Congressman Lieu co-led with a bipartisan group headed by House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce and Ranking Member Eliot Engel. The legislation establishes a high-level Office of Cyber Issues at the Department of State, requires a public international cyberspace strategy, and creates Congressional oversight over international cyber agreements. “The Trump Administration decided to gut the State Department and with it our ability to address international cyber issues. Today, I’m proud that the House rejected the Administration’s approach by passing the Cyber Diplomacy Act. “Our bipartisan legislation creates the structure, strategy and oversight necessary for the State Department to ensure that U.S. leadership extends to the critical area of cyberspace. Cyber concerns permeate every region and issue area, from intellectual property to human rights. That is why it is so important that the United States takes the lead on developing international cyber guidelines and enforcement mechanisms. I urge the Senate to take up this bill for consideration as soon as possible.” ###
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) and Congressman Justin Amash (R-MI) reintroduced the Stop Civil Asset Forfeiture Funding for Marijuana Suppression Act. The bill would restrict civil asset forfeiture funds from being used for the Drug Enforcement Agency’s Domestic Cannabis Eradication / Suppression Program. The bill would prohibit the transfer of property that would be used for cannabis eradication from a federal or state/local agency and ensures precious federal resources are not wasted on marijuana eradication. Reps. Lieu and Amash introduced a version of this bill during the 114th Congress. Upon introduction, Rep. Lieu said: “The Federal Government has a responsibility to spend taxpayer money wisely. Instead, AG Jeff Sessions would rather waste federal dollars by attacking marijuana, which has been legalized either for medical or recreational use in the majority of states in the U.S. The DEA’s Domestic Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program is a waste of time and money and runs contrary to the will of the people.” Upon introduction, Rep. Amash said: Civil asset forfeiture is an unconstitutional practice whereby the government takes people’s property without due process. The DEA's use of proceeds acquired through civil asset forfeiture to expand marijuana enforcement—a state-level issue—makes the already unacceptable practice even worse. I’m pleased to introduce the Stop Civil Asset Forfeiture Funding for Marijuana Suppression Act along with Rep. Lieu to end this program. Justin Strekal, NORML Political Director: "Never in modern history has there existed greater public support for ending the nation's nearly century-long experiment with marijuana prohibition. With eight states and the District of Columbia now having legalized its personal use and 30 states having legalized medical marijuana, it is time that the DEA cease interfering with state-legal programs and stop wasting taxpayer dollars that would be better directed at going after the pill-mills contributing to the nations opioid crisis.” Don Murphy, Director of Conservative Outreach Marijuana Policy Project: “The drug war is not just a war on liberty but a war on property as well. Representatives Lieu and Amash understand that removing financial incentives is part of the answer to uneven enforcement and will hasten an end to this unjust and lost war. Lieu and Amash are to be commended for their bipartisan approach and MPP encourages a hearing by the House Judiciary Committee on this legislation and looks forward to working for its swift passage.” Theshia Naidoo, Office of Legal Affairs, Drug Policy Alliance “Reforms to the asset forfeiture program are long overdue, and the legislation introduced by Representatives Lieu and Amash provides a much needed check on the system. At a time when 29 states have authorized medical marijuana and 8 states have fully legalized marijuana, proceeds from asset forfeiture should not go to a program which interferes with state sovereignty and is directly opposed by the majority of Americans.” ###
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Politico reported that 17 former nuclear launch officers signed a letter calling for congressional action to prevent the President from launching a nuclear first-strike unprovoked. “What does it tell us that 17 former nuclear launch officers want to keep first-strike authority out of the President’s hands? That we should be terrified. I applaud these officers for coming forward. They are telling the American people how dangerous it is that we give a President with little impulse control the power to order a nuclear first strike. Sen. Markey and I introduced the ‘Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act’ to require the President to get Congressional authorization before launching a nuclear first strike. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation before it’s too late.” ###
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke's decision to exclude Florida from its offshore drilling plan. "Secretary Ryan Zinke's action of exempting just Florida from the Trump Administration’s proposed offshore oil drilling plan smacks of naked political favoritism. It's also illegal. Exempting Florida but not another large coastal state like California has no rational basis, is an abuse of discretion, and is arbitrary and capricious. Secretary Zinke stated he is exempting Florida because its coasts 'are heavily reliant on tourism as an economic driver.' That is true, since Florida’s coastal economy accounts for 79% of Florida’s GDP. What is also true is that California’s coasts are also heavily reliant on tourism as an economic driver. California’s coastal economy accounts for 80% of California’s GDP, a slightly larger share than Florida. In fact, California's coastal economy is unique and so important that the federal government produced an entire report on the critical importance of California's coastal economy not just to California, but to our nation. Under Secretary Zinke’s own rationale, if he exempts Florida from offshore oil drilling he must also exempt California. Secretary Zinke clearly recognizes the devastating impact that offshore oil drilling can have on Florida’s economy, so why isn’t he recognizing how bad it would be for other states as well?" ###
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D – Los Angeles County) led a letter co-signed by 11 Members of Congress from Southern California urging U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to reconsider its new onerous submission requirements for congressional offices inquiring on behalf of constituents. These changes create considerable barriers for congressional offices working to process immigration casework in a timely manner. In the letter, the Members write: “Immigration cases comprise some of the most challenging, voluminous and time sensitive casework handled by congressional offices throughout our nation. As congressional representatives serving Southern California, home to one of the largest immigrant populations in the United States, our district offices handle a significant amount of immigration cases, working with USCIS staff in local and regional offices to assist our constituents. By requesting that immigrants provide a full translation of all documents into English by a certified translation service, USCIS would delay the ability of our constituents to submit privacy release forms to a congressional office and would require that these applicants incur additional costs beyond the costly USCIS application fees they pay to process applications. By requiring that our offices secure additional privacy releases from constituents for previously opened and active cases, it creates further barriers for our offices to assist in processing cases in a timely manner. When applications to petition for an alien relative, to request asylum or to obtain permanent residency can last for months and years at a time, requiring further release forms from a constituent for long active cases would add unnecessary barriers for offices to assist our constituents. At a time when USCIS is struggling with significant backlogs in processing immigration applications and congressional offices are receiving increasing volumes of immigration casework, we cannot support these changes to the USCIS casework process. As such, we call on USCIS to reconsider these changes and to work with our offices to agree to procedures that do not hamper the already challenging immigration application process.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced its plan to expand offshore drilling in the Pacific, Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico and Arctic waters.The plan proposes enabling offshore drilling in 47 areas along the coasts of the U.S. including Southern California. "The Trump Administration has made it clear that its priorities are deregulation and lining the pockets of fossil fuel companies. This offshore drilling plan is another awful example. Sec. Zinke's proposed plan has the potential to be catastrophic for our environment and creates extraordinary safety concerns for coastal communities. In 2010, the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster killed 11 workers, devastated fragile ecosystems and cost taxpayers billions. This Administration has taken pride in rolling back critical environmental and safety regulations so I have very little confidence they could or would prevent another devastating oil spill. Instead of enriching oil companies, we should be fighting climate change and looking at wind, tidal and wave energy development. The science community and the public agree, but, once again, the Trump Administration is demonstrating its disinterest in science and public sentiment. Californians do not want offshore drilling in the Pacific. In California alone, our coastal economy generates $662 billion in wages and $1.7 trillion in gross domestic product. Our state, and frankly our country, cannot afford offshore drilling. Everything, from the tiniest zooplankton to our global economy, relies on healthy and safe oceans. I will do everything I can to keep our oceans clean and stop the Trump Administration’s reckless proposal to enrich oil and gas companies at the expense of the environment, and thus the lives and livelihoods of millions of Americans." ###
01.03.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D – Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump tweeted “…I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than [Kim Jong Un's], and my Button works!” Rep. Lieu introduced the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act with Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) to prohibit the President from launching a nuclear first strike without a declaration of war by Congress. “President Trump needs to understand that his words matter--His threats are un-presidential and baffling. Kim Jong Un is a dangerous and ruthless dictator and the United States has a responsibility to its allies and the world to lead with restraint. Instead, it feels like we’re caught up in a playground fight that could end in colossal death and destruction. As I’ve said before, there are no good military options in North Korea. Launching a nuclear first strike against North Korea could endanger the lives of millions of our allies and American military personnel. I served on active duty in the Air Force and I know that diplomacy is our best bet to prevent a bloody and drawn-out conflict on the Korean peninsula. Trump’s provocations are moving us closer to a dangerous war that would have dire consequences.” ###
12.26.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) joined colleagues in introducing H.R. 4706, the Music Modernization Act, which updates the music licensing system with meaningful reforms for the first time in almost two decades. Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA), Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY) and Rep. Joseph Crowley (D-N.Y.) introduced the bill with Mr. Lieu, along with Reps. Diane Black (R-Tenn.), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.), and Pete Sessions (R-Texas). “Music is a part of culture’s lifeblood. It can transform worldviews, transport listeners and inspire social movements. Music touches all aspects of our society but it has a special relationship with technology. In fact, innovations in sound have changed the way we listen to music and music has changed the way we understand technology. Ensuring that the law keeps up with music and its changing forms is important and necessary. With the support of music publishers, songwriters, and streaming services, this critical bill will provide an opportunity to truly propel the music industry into the 21st century and beyond. Fortifying copyright law ensures that change makers in the music industry can protect their work. For too long, we’ve had an outdated licensing system that hindered productive relationships and impacted how we listen to music. The House Judiciary Committee has worked hard to bring stakeholders together from across the industry to improve the mechanical licensing system – and this carefully crafted bill reflects the dedication of everyone involved. By creating a new body – the Music Licensing Collective – to match songwriters and publishers with recordings, and by creating a blanket license for streaming services, we can help ensure accurate payments to those who deserve to be compensated for their creative work. This is an exciting step for both the music industry and music lovers alike.” READ MORE ABOUT THE BILL HERE Support for the Music Modernization Act National Music Publishers’ Association (NMPA) President & CEO David Israelite, American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers (ASCAP) CEO Elizabeth Matthews, Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI) President & CEO Mike O’Neill, Nashville Songwriters Association International (NSAI) President Steve Bogard and Songwriters of North America (SONA) Executive Directors Michelle Lewis and Kay Hanley: “We strongly support the introduction of the Music Modernization Act which represents months of collaboration and compromise between the songwriting and tech industries. This legislation enables digital music companies to find the owners of the music they use and reforms the rate setting process for performing rights, ensuring that songwriters and music publishers are paid faster and more fairly than ever before. “For too long, digital music services have taken advantage of the ‘bulk NOI’ process and often failed to find the correct creators to pay, and now—by working together—this bill ends this practice by creating a private-sector system where money will no longer be lost to inefficiencies and lack of information. The bill also improves how mechanical royalty rates are calculated by introducing a willing-seller/willing-buyer standard. “On the performance rights side, the bill also replaces the current rate court system with the random assignment of judges used in most federal court cases, and allows the rate courts to review all relevant market evidence into the valuation of how songwriters are compensated. “We thank Congressmen Collins and Jeffries for their leadership in striking this balance that improves and modernizes our outdated licensing system and gives songwriters the ability to be paid what they deserve across all platforms that use music, including the growing interactive streaming services.” Digital Media Association (DiMA) CEO Chris Harrison: "DiMA thanks Congressmen Collins and Jeffries for their work to reform an outdated and inefficient music licensing system that serves neither fans of music nor creators. “We support the Music Modernization Act because it would create a blanket license, which is critical to a modern licensing system and a great step forward. “We look forward to continuing to work with the sponsors and the Judiciary Committee to enact legislation that creates a music licensing system that benefits everyone." NMPA President & CEO David Israelite: “The Music Modernization Act brings the laws that govern songwriters into the modern age. This legislation will lead to improved rates for songwriters and will streamline digital music companies’ ability to license music. While there is still more to do to free songwriters from oppressive government regulation, this is a major step forward.” ASCAP CEO Elizabeth Matthews: “For too long, songwriters have had to work within an outdated system that over-regulates and undervalues their music. ASCAP and our members have long advocated for a more flexible framework that can adapt to the realities of the modern music marketplace. We thank Congressmen Collins and Jeffries for introducing this legislation which is result of compromise between stakeholders from the music and tech sectors. We are glad to see provisions that address rate court reforms, which should ultimately result in compensation for our members that reflects the true value of their music. We will continue to push for reforms that can help move the entire music industry forward.” BMI President & CEO Mike O’Neill: “We thank Congressmen Collins and Jeffries for their introduction of the Music Modernization Act of 2017 and for always working to protect the rights of the American songwriter. While we believe there is still more to do to protect the value of the performance right, we are gratified that the Music Modernization Act contains two important provisions that create a more level playing field when determining the fair market value of our songwriters’ music; a wheel assignment for rate court judges and the repeal of 114(i). BMI also takes comfort that the bill’s new mechanical licensing provisions were the result of an important collaboration between the subject matter experts in this area—the mechanical rights holders and the digital services who rely on those rights. While we know this bill is not yet final, we believe it is an important step forward in modernizing music licensing and we look forward to working with all of the interested parties.” Nashville Songwriters Association International President Steve Bogard: “This legislation has been years in the making, represents compromises with digital streaming companies and reflects substantial progress in the way digital mechanical royalties for songwriters are determined. When we begin the next CRB proceeding we will be able to actually fight for what songwriters would be paid in a free market.” SONA Executive Directors Michelle Lewis and Kay Hanley: “After many months of working together on copyright reform and significant compromises by all parties, SONA is optimistic about the gains for publishers and songwriters that the Music Modernization Act provides. It lays the groundwork for a clear and concise system which will put an end to the mass abuses of outdated regulations, and ultimately gets songwriters and copyright owners paid more fairly for their work. “SONA is proud to be a part of this historic bill. We hope this is only the beginning and look forward to continuing to work with members of Congress to fight for the rights of music creators."
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D – Los Angeles County) led a letter co-signed by Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Rep. James McGovern (D-MA) and Rep. Randy Hultgren (R-IL) to Saudi Ambassador to the United States Khaled bin Salman and Emirati Ambassador to the United States Youset al Otaiba urging their governments to end their coalition’s Yemen blockade and reopen Yemen’s seaports, airports and land crossings. In the letter, the Members write: Unless a humanitarian plan of action is implemented immediately – including ending restrictions on vessels carrying fuel and commercial goods that are essential to the humanitarian response – millions of Yemeni civilians could die from famine. Beyond immediately lifting the blockade, we request that your governments take several specific steps that would help to alleviate the humanitarian situation in Yemen: Facilitate without delay the delivery and installation of the four cranes for Hudaydah port that the U.S. Government financed last year; Eliminate restrictions and delays on all vessels bound for Hudaydah and other Yemeni ports that have been cleared by the UN Verification and Inspection Mechanism, including commercial vessels; Allow both humanitarian and most commercial flights to Sana’a (with the exception of Iranian air carriers and those that have a track record of facilitating the movement of Iranian personnel and their proxies) to resume unobstructed; Agree to the pre-positioning of a World Food Program vessel off Aden, to facilitate more rapid humanitarian assistance; READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House passed the final version of the GOP tax bill. “This bill is a nightmare. This legislative process was a nightmare. The repercussions of this tax scam will be a nightmare. We have just witnessed generational theft to benefit the super-rich and corporations. The GOP pushed through a bill that is deeply unpopular and will raise taxes on millions of middle class families. I’m angry for Californians, who will be acutely hurt by this bill. Under this bill, my constituents who were impacted by the wildfires won’t have access to critical tax deductions meant for disaster survivors. Under this bill, my constituents on Medicare and Medicaid likely won’t see the necessary funding to keep older and low-income Americans covered. Under this bill, my constituents will basically incur double taxes because of the cut to the State and Local Tax deduction. Today, the House and Senate GOP cast their votes in favor of hurting middle class American families so that folks with estates worth $22 million can get a massive tax exemption.” ###
12.18.2017	Washington – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) received a “Congressional Waste Warrior” award from the White Coat Waste Project. The award recognizes Congressman Lieu’s leadership in the 115th Congress to end inhumane dog experiments in Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities. “I would like to thank the White Coat Waste Project for this special recognition. Canine experiments are unnecessary, wasteful and inhumane. We owe it to not only our canine friends but our nation’s Veterans and American taxpayers to promote science that does not come at the expense of animals’ welfare. I applaud the White Coat Waste Project for its hard work, and I look forward to continuing to make strides with my colleagues in Congress to end dog abuse across VA facilities.” ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND On May 8, 2017, Reps. Lieu and Dina Titus (D-Nevada) led seven other House Members in sending a letter to the VA Inspector General Michael J. Missal raising concerns about the lack of transparency and accountability in the controversial dog experiments taking place at the West LA VA. On June 9, the VA announced it was terminating the 20-year-old canine research program. On July 26, the House unanimously passed an amendment that prohibits the VA from conducting any study that causes significant pain or distress to dogs. Congressman Lieu was a cosponsor of this Amendment. ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after U.S. Africa Command announced that NCIS will be conducting an investigation into an August raid in Somalia that may have led to numerous civilian deaths. In a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing last week, Rep. Lieu called on the Department of Defense to initiate an independent probe into allegations that Special Operations forces shot 10 Somalian civilians, including at least one child. “I commend AFRICOM’s decision to seek an outside investigation into the August 25 operation in Somalia. Avoiding civilian casualties is not only a moral imperative, but also a national security priority. What is alleged to have happened in Somalia is deeply disturbing. The fact that AFRICOM is sending the Navy Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) to investigate shows that the Command understands the gravity of the allegations. This investigation is a crucial step to determine if crimes or mistakes occurred, and whether disciplinary actions or policy changes are required. Whatever the result, the decision to investigate underscores the need for greater congressional oversight of U.S. counter-terrorism operations.” ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner failed to respond to a letter from Rep. Lieu and 12 Members of Congress about whether he has leveraged his position to acquire financial support for 666 Fifth Avenue. The letter requested Mr. Kusher to respond by December 12. It has been reported that Kushner Cos., which partially owns the property, is seeking massive cash bailouts for the property from foreign entities, creating a potential conflict of interest for Mr. Kushner. “I led my colleagues in asking two simple questions: did Mr. Kushner have any discussions with foreign nationals about 666 Fifth Avenue? And, if so, did Mr. Kushner discuss anything related to helping finance, purchase, or assist with the debt on 666 Fifth Avenue? These are straightforward questions but we still haven’t received an answer. What is Mr. Kushner hiding?” ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement ahead of Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai’s scheduled net neutrality vote tomorrow. “I fully support net neutrality. It is unacceptable the FCC is forging ahead with a vote to repeal net neutrality rules despite a public comment period tainted by millions of fake submissions, some of which were linked to Russian email addresses. These are crimes and a direct attack on the integrity of our democratic process. Chairman Pai’s apparent unwillingness to help the New York Attorney General investigate these crimes is telling and unacceptable. Why is Chairman Pai rushing this vote despite known criminal behavior? The Chairman must delay this vote until the criminal investigation is completed; otherwise he sends the message that he is complicit in the criminality. I oppose the FCC’s vote tomorrow and urge them to delay their decision until we can restore integrity and confidence to the FCC.” ###
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after President Trump signed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 into law. Congressman Lieu authored two provisions that will bring critical congressional oversight to the conflict in Yemen for the first time. Sec. 1265 requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. Sec. 1275 requires the President to submit a detailed report that contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. “This is a consequential triumph for human rights and military accountability. Congressional oversight on Yemen is long overdue and will bring much-needed oversight to the Saudi-led coalition operating in Yemen with U.S.-bought weapons. I wrote these provisions in order to ensure that Congress can finally conduct proper oversight of the Trump Administration and our partners’ military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. My hope is that, through these provisions, we can develop a plan to end this conflict that has led to one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world.” ###
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D­ – Los Angeles County) introduced bipartisan legislation called the Fundamentally Understanding the Usability and Realistic Evolution of Artificial Intelligence (FUTURE of AI) Act with Congressmen John Delaney (D–MD) and Pete Olson (R–TX) to create a federal advisory commission to study artificial intelligence issues. Comprised of members from federal agencies, industry, academia and labor organizations, the commission would advise the government on how to regulate and prepare for advancements in AI. Reps. Lieu, Delaney and Olson are members of the Artificial Intelligence Caucus, which was created in the 115th Congress to inform policymakers of the technological, economic and social impacts of advances in AI. This is a companion to a Senate bill introduced by Senator Cantwell. “Artificial intelligence is already reshaping the future of nearly every major industry. With thoughtful investment, American ingenuity in AI can transform our economy and help the United States remain the global standard-bearer of innovation. As a leader in this space, the U.S. is responsible for determining how to deploy these new technologies safely and wisely—especially considering the potential economic, legal and ethical implications of AI. I am proud to join my colleagues Rep. Delaney and Rep. Olson in bringing together a diverse group of experts to tackle these fundamental questions. Used correctly, AI can transform society for the better. Used in a nefarious manner, AI can wreak havoc on society.” ###
12.11.2017	Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angles County) issued the following statement in response to Vermont Governor Phil Scott's argument that climate change, and devastating outcomes like wildfires, could be economically beneficial. “Governor Scott’s recent comments encouraging climate change are both insensitive and stupid. Insensitive because the horrific wildfires that have raged throughout California and other states in our country have hurt millions of Americans, with many families losing everything they own. No elected official should ever hope for disasters to happen. And stupid because it is hard to take advantage of an economic dislocation if we destroy our planet in the process. Rather than try to calculate which parts of the country could potentially benefit from the catastrophic impacts of climate change, Mr. Scott should work with me and other elected officials to make meaningful policy changes that could save our planet.” ###
12.08.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs reversed its decision to change the funding scheme for programs that benefit homeless veterans. This reversal comes after Rep. Lieu and 11 Members of Congress sent a letter to VA Secretary David Shulkin urging him to reconsider the decision, which would have jeopardized the VA’s ability to meet the needs of homeless veterans. “I am pleased the VA listened to Members of Congress and the Veterans community, and reversed this decision. The Department’s commitment to soliciting input from local VA leaders and stakeholders is critical. We need to ensure that funding for crucial programs like joint HUD-VA housing initiatives maintain their special status in the Specific Purpose Fund. This status is crucial for Veterans who need affordable, stable housing and access to the services and care they have earned and deserve. There is still much work to be done – especially in Los Angeles, where the number of homeless Veterans has increased this year. We need to do everything in our power to work towards ending homelessness among Veterans." ###
12.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Mark Takano (D-CA) released a video called The Holidays with House Republicans, which demonstrates how the House GOP tax bill is a gift to corporations but not the ordinary person. The video comes as House and Senate Republicans work to consolidate their legislative proposals for tax reform, both of which give corporations and wealthy donors massive and permanent tax cuts at the expense of middle-class Americans and future generations. ###
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett (D-Virgin Islands) led a group of 78 Members calling on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to invest in resilient energy infrastructure during Hurricane Maria and Hurricane Irma recovery efforts. The Members urged FEMA to invest in renewable energy technology in hard hit areas like Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, where outdated electrical grids have hindered expedited rebuilding efforts. In the letter, the Members write: “The power crises in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands clearly demonstrate the need to invest in electric infrastructure that is resilient and able to withstand powerful storms like Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Restoring the same type of grid that will be vulnerable to the same type of hurricane would be a monumental waste of taxpayer resources and an injustice to the American citizens living there. As such, we ask that rebuilding efforts on these islands include investment in a more resilient power grid, deploying renewable energy technologies and employing distributed generation systems. In recent years, hurricanes and other natural disasters have occurred at alarming rates. Rather than rebuilding dated electric grids, focusing on resiliency will improve our energy security and ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
12.05.2017	LOS ANGELES – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) announced that applications for the 33rd Congressional District’s inaugural Youth Advisory Council (YAC) will be accepted through Dec. 15. Students will have a chance to meet with a diverse group of peers from their community to discuss issues of importance and consider ways of getting involved locally. The YAC will work directly with staff in Rep. Lieu’s office to collaborate on key issues for young people in California’s 33rd district. Students in 9th through 12th grade that live or attend school in the district are eligible to apply. “One of the things I love about our district is that we have so many young people committed to service and making the world a better place. Whenever I have the chance to meet with students in our community, I’m always in awe of how passionate they are about a diverse set of issues. I created this Youth Advisory Council so our district’s students can have a forum to gather to talk about critical issues and channel their passion into action. I am really looking forward to kicking off our Youth Advisory Council and learning from our community’s best and brightest students!” Interested students can apply here.
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement ahead of this week’s House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on U.S. counter-terrorism efforts in Africa. “I am pleased that Chairman Royce has accepted my request to hold a hearing before the House Foreign Affairs Committee on U.S. counter-terrorism efforts in Africa. From combating Al Shabaab in Somalia to Boko Haram in Nigeria, U.S. military personnel are deployed across the African continent with little public scrutiny or awareness. It is critical that we bring more transparency to the years-long work of U.S. Special Operations Forces in sub-Saharan Africa, their rules of engagement and the broader regional strategy. As I pointed out after four service members were killed in Niger last month, our committee has not held a single full committee hearing focused on U.S. objectives in the Sahel region since 2013. When that is rectified next week, I hope the Administration is prepared to answer critical questions about both the Niger attack and the August 25 Special Operations incident in Somalia in which U.S. forces are alleged to have shot 10 civilians, including at least one child. As a Veteran, I firmly believe one of Congress’ most fundamental duties is to conduct oversight of war powers and operations. I look forward to doing that at next week’s hearing.” ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after CIM Group announced it would end its contract with the Trump Organization. This decision comes after Rep. Lieu sent two letters, one of which was signed by 12 California Members of Congress, urging the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) to divest its funds from CIM Fund III because it financed Trump SoHo. The property, run by the Trump Organization, has been at the center of allegations of fraud and money laundering. “I applaud CIM Group for severing ties with the Trump Organization and commend groups like Free Speech for People for their commitment to curbing government corruption. This was the responsible thing to do considering Trump SoHo’s problematic financial and managerial history. Beyond that, their CIM Fund III was furnished by public entities like CalPERS, creating a violation of the Domestic Emoluments Clause of the Constitution. State workers—from teachers to firefighters—can rest easier knowing that their retirement funds are not tied up in allegedly fraudulent investments.” ###
11.28.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray requesting that he brief Congress on the FBI’s notification policy regarding cyberattacks against current and former U.S. government officials. The letter follows reports that the FBI, despite knowing about the threat, did not notify potential U.S. targets that their personal Gmail accounts could be vulnerable to Russian hacking. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: “As a computer science major and Member on the House Judiciary Committee, I have been deeply concerned about the breadth and complexity of the cybersecurity threats facing our nation. These threats often outpace our ability to track them, let alone combat them. However, given the FBI’s mission of protecting the United States from the malign efforts of “foreign intelligence and espionage” and “cyber-based attacks," the FBI’s response to this advanced persistent threat appears to have been deficient and demands further attention. Failing to notify current or former U.S. officials of known cyber attacks hampers their ability to assess and mitigate damage. Threat actors can often glean useful data from private email accounts that is then used to conduct further attacks." READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE ###
11.27.2017	Los Angeles – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) joined UCLA and VA staff including UCLA Chancellor Gene Block, VA Deputy Undersecretary Steve Young and VA Greater Los Angeles Medical System Director Ann Brown to introduce the new Veteran Family Wellness Center and Veteran Legal Clinic on the VA West Los Angeles Medical Center campus. The new centers were formed in partnership with UCLA to provide veterans and their families with comprehensive support including vocational training, parenting classes and legal counseling. A third center focused on addressing and mitigating homelessness will be opening in the near future. “I’m honored to have authored H.R. 5936 to support the West Los Angeles VA campus revitalization project. The work of UCLA and the West Los Angeles VA is a shining example of the innovation that is possible when public institutions are empowered to collaborate. I applaud UCLA’s continued commitment to our vets--these centers represent a promising new frontier for veterans care. Our veterans and their families deserve cutting-edge support and I’m grateful to see first-hand the impact these centers will have on our community.” Background: The opening of the Veteran Family Wellness Center and Veteran Legal Clinic were made possible thanks to H.R. 5936, a bill that Rep. Lieu co-authored to enable the revitalization of the Greater Los Angeles VA. This legislation allowed the VA to construct 1,200 units of housing for homeless Veterans and to develop new, robust services like the Wellness Center.
11.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D – Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis urging the Department of Defense to respond to and take corrective actions following a New York Times story suggesting the Pentagon underreported civilian casualties resulting from airstrikes against ISIS. Rep. Lieu, who served on active duty as a JAG, asked for clarification on the steps the Pentagon is taking to mitigate civilian casualties during Operation Inherent Resolve. In the letter, Mr. Lieu asked: In 2015, how many civilians were killed and how many were injured under Operation Inherent Resolve? In 2016, how many civilians were killed and how many were injured under Operation Inherent Resolve? In 2017 (up to November 1 of this year), how many civilians were killed and how many were injured under Operation Inherent Resolve? Were there any changes to the Rules of Engagement in 2017 for Operation Inherent Resolve? If so, what were the changes? Is a JAG or Department of Defense attorney involved in every targeting decision for Operation Inherent Resolve? READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) joined 11 of his colleagues in sending a letter to the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) urging the Department to reverse its decision to realign funding for homeless veterans from the Specific Purpose Fund to the General Purpose Fund. This change could jeopardize the VA’s ability to ensure that veterans in the program have access to a case manager—a critical part of procuring medical help, affordable housing and substance abuse counseling for those who need it the most. In the letter, the members write: “The funding realignment proposed in the September 22nd memorandum could result in the removal of funding for HUD-VASH program case management, the lynchpin component of the programmatic partnership between HUD and the VA. Case management funding is crucial in combatting veteran homelessness and ensuring that veterans can retain affordable, stable housing and access to the services and care to which they are entitled. As representatives of the largest population of homeless veterans in the country, we urge you to consider the effects this budgetary change could have on veterans facing homelessness and housing insecurity in our districts.” “We also urge the VA to consider whether such a funding realignment would comply with the statutory requirements governing the HUD-VASH program. According to VA 385 USC 2003(b), the VA must ensure adequate funding to guarantee that every veteran in the HUD-VASH program has access to and is able to see a case manager. Removing or realigning funding may jeopardize the VA’s compliance with statutory requirements if caseload rations become unmanageable at a time when the needs of homeless veterans are still overwhelming.” ###
11.16.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu issued the following statement after House Republicans passed their devastating tax scam, which eliminates key deductions for middle class families, students, teachers and seniors across the country. Instead, the tax scam hands deficit-exploding giveaways to the wealthiest Americans and corporations shipping jobs overseas. A new analysis released by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy that finds California stands to be the biggest loser in the House tax reform bill. Under this plan, Californians will shoulder the largest net tax increase at $12.1 billion in 2027. “The GOP tax plan is terrible. Hard-working families are going to foot the bill for tax breaks for the wealthy and Californians will be among the hardest hit by this tax scam. It’s despicable. California is already a donor state to the federal government, meaning we give more in tax dollars to the Treasury than we receive in services and programs. Removing the state and local tax deduction, for example, means middle class families in California will be paying more taxes to subsidize breaks for the super-rich. This scam is both unfair and irresponsible. My hope was that House Republicans, especially in states like California, New York and New Jersey, would realize how much they’re going to hurt their own constituents with this vote. Now Americans know where their representative's priorities lie.” # # #
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON -Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to House Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce asking for oversight on Saudi Arabia’s increasingly aggressive approach towards its neighbors in the Middle East. The letter follows the arrests of numerous Saudi elites and the Lebanese Prime Minister’s sudden resignation. These incidents occurred after an unannounced trip to Saudi Arabia by White House Senior Adviser Jared Kushner and were followed by a tweet from President Trump that seemingly endorsed the Kingdom’s actions. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: On November 4, Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman ordered the mass arrest of dozens of Saudi elite, including 11 members of the royal family, under the guise of an anti-graft purge. The same day, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri unexpectedly announced his resignation during a visit to Riyadh, citing systemic Iranian interference in Lebanon. Reports quickly circulated that Mr. Hariri was pressured to resign by Saudi interlocutors. Following the events, the Trump administration’s official response came directly from President Trump, who tweeted, “I have great confidence in King Salman and the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, they know exactly what they are doing...” All of these events share the common thread of a more aggressive regional approach by Saudi Arabia, reportedly orchestrated by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, and heightened tensions between Saudi Arabia and its neighbors that could quickly spiral into more direct conflict. These dynamics have potentially serious implications for U.S. interests and demand our committee’s attention. The peculiar response by this administration, which can only be described as an unqualified endorsement of the new Saudi approach, only further underscores the need for public scrutiny and Congressional oversight. THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
11.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to House passage of the Conference Report to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. The final version of the bill includes two key provisions authored by Congressman Lieuthat will bring critical congressional oversight to the conflict in Yemen for the first time. Sec. 1265 requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. Sec. 1275 requires the President to submit a detailed report that contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. “Today, we achieved an important victory by bringing critical oversight to the role of the United States in a disastrous foreign conflict. Despite years of documentation that the U.S.-backed, Saudi-led coalition operating in Yemen has committed what look like multiple war crimes, the Trump Administration has refused to answer basic questions about the coalition’s track record. Instead, the Administration has continued selling them weapons. I am pleased the annual Department of Defense authorization bill includes the provisions I wrote to require the Administration to be accountable for the coalition’s conduct and articulate a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen. This is long overdue. We must never allow U.S. military assistance in a conflict if we do not have confidence in our partner’s willingness and ability to avoid civilian casualties and prevent humanitarian disaster. As we approach the three-year mark of a military conflict that has left over 15,000 civilians dead and created one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world, it is far past time we have a diplomatic strategy to end it.” ###
11.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s hearing on presidential authority to launch nuclear weapons. “I applaud Senators Corker and Cardin for working together to evaluate presidential authority to use nuclear weapons. Launching a weapon that can kill millions of people instantly in a nuclear first strike is an indisputable act of war. I’ll say what I’ve been saying for some time: Only Congress has the authority to declare war. When Senator Markey and I originally introduced bicameral legislation called the “Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act” in 2016, it was before we knew who would be in office after President Obama. We knew then what we know now: Congress has a moral and a constitutional obligation to consider war and what it would mean for our nation. I don’t think the Founders, in their wildest dreams, could have imagined the devastation made possible by nuclear weapons. I am confident, however, they would raise serious objections to the loophole that enables the President to launch these devastating weapons in a nuclear first strike without proper deliberation. I implore my colleagues in both chambers to support this important legislation.” ###
11.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in commemoration of Veteran’s Day this Saturday. “This Veterans Day, we come together to honor our nation’s service members and their families, whose sacrifice and commitment allow us to live by our most deeply held values. As an Air Force veteran myself, I believe that in order to truly honor our service men and women, we must do more than praise their commitment to country – we need to honor our commitment to them. I will continue to fight for my fellow service members throughout my time in Congress, and look forward to hearing from them as we work to improve life for our nation’s best. My door is always open.”
11.10.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following letter from Lt. Gen. Jan-Marc Jouas, the former Deputy Commander of US Forces Korea, outlining the operational challenges of a war with North Korea. In the letter, Lt. Gen. Jouas writes: “This threat was the most dangerous I’d faced since the end of the Cold War, and planning for it the most challenging problem I’d encountered in my 35-year career.” “The 28,500 US Armed Forces personnel in South Korea are vastly outnumbered by North Korean forces, as well as ROK forces that will conduct the overwhelming majority of the fighting.” “Unlike every conflict since the last Korean War, we will not be able to build up our forces prior to the start of hostilities.” “During that time an enormous casualty and evacuee crisis will develop and include over a hundred thousand non-combatant Americans” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE
11.09.2017	*MEDIA ADVISORY: FOR PLANNING PURPOSES* On Saturday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-33) will be highlighting how devastating the Republican tax plan would be for Californians along with Rep. Judy Chu (D-27), Rep. Nanette Barragan (D-44), Social Security Works, the National Association of Realtors, SEIU UHW and members of the public. The GOP proposal to eliminate the state and local deduction would hurt California, where more than 6 million households claimed the deduction in 2015. Beyond that—the plan limits the mortgage interest deduction, which is a direct assault of the dream of middle class homeownership in communities across California. WHO: Rep. Ted Lieu Rep. Judy Chu Rep. Nanette Barragan Gabriel Montoya, SEIU UHW Member and ER Assistant at Kaiser-Downey Ernie Powell, Social Security Works Tamara Suminski, National Association of Realtors Christine Tran, UCLA Student WHEN: Saturday, November 11, 2017 from 12:15 pm WHERE: SEIU United Healthcare Workers West, 5480 Ferguson Drive, Commerce, CA 90022
11.04.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued a bipartisan joint statement with fellow veterans Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Rep. Carbajal (D-CA), Rep. Conyers (D-MI), Rep. DeFazio (D-OR), Rep. Brown (D-MD), Rep. Rush (D-IL), Rep. Jones (R-NC), Rep. Panetta (D-CA), Rep. Pascrell (D-NJ), Rep. Thompson (D-CA), Del. Sablan (D-Mariana Islands), Rep. Gabbard (D-HI), Rep. Scott (D-VA), Rep. Moulton (D-MA) on a potential ground invasion in North Korea. The statement follows a CRS report and a letter from the Joint Chiefs of Staff addressing questions raised by Reps. Lieu and Gallego about the Pentagon’s plan for military action against North Korea. In the statement, the Members write: “The Joint Chiefs of Staff has now confirmed that the only way to destroy North Korea’s nuclear arsenal is through a ground invasion. That is deeply disturbing and could result in hundreds of thousands, or even millions of deaths in just the first few days of fighting. As Veterans, we have defended this nation in war and we remain committed to this country’s security. We also understand that entering into a protracted and massive ground war with North Korea would be disastrous for U.S. troops and our allies. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, it appears, agree. Their assessment underscores what we’ve known all along: There are no good military options for North Korea. Invading North Korea could result in a catastrophic loss of lives for U.S. troops and U.S. civilians in South Korea. It could kill millions of South Koreans and put troops and civilians in Guam and Japan at risk. The Joint Chiefs said they have no reason to believe North Korea would resist using their stockpiles of biological and chemical weapons. It is our intent to have a full public accounting of the potential cost of war, so the American people understand the commitment we would be making as a nation if we were to pursue military action. A nonpartisan report by the Congressional Research Service indicates conflict on the peninsula could impact as many as 25 million people on either side of the border, including more than 100,000 U.S. citizens. We must pursue every other option before even considering a massive ground invasion. The Administration has also failed to articulate any plans to prevent the military conflict from expanding beyond the Korean Peninsula and to manage what happens after the conflict is over. We’re still engaged in the longest war in U.S. history in Afghanistan with no end in sight. With that in mind, the thought of sending troops into harm’s way and expending resources on another potentially unwinnable war is chilling. The President needs to stop making provocative statements that hinder diplomatic options and put American troops further at risk. The Joint Chiefs’ assessment and the CRS report clearly demonstrate that every diplomatic and economic option must be exhausted before military options are considered. If President Trump does intend to pursue a military option against North Korea, he must come to Congress as required by our Constitution. The stakes are too high and the potential outcome too grave for President Trump to violate his constitutional duty to come to Congress to authorize and oversee use of force.” ###
11.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Wall Street Journal reported that six members of the Russian government were directly involved in stealing sensitive information from Democrats in order to influence the 2016 election. “As a computer science major, I want to see the U.S. government take cybercrimes and cyberwarfare seriously. Those of us that can read and understand facts have known for many months that the Russian government was involved in hacks and a sophisticated influence campaign designed to affect the 2016 election. There are congressional investigations into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin, and the President himself may be under investigation by the Special Counsel. The President’s repeated tweets, which are official statements, intentionally mislead the public about the true source of the hacks. Trump has received classified briefings on the Russian hacking and knows full well the source of the hacks. Trump’s intentional lies may constitute even more obstruction of justice. Meanwhile, Trump still hasn’t signed off on the bipartisan congressional sanctions on Russia. I wonder why.”
11.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Yesterday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) joined Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Jamie Raskin (MD-08) and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) in calling on House Speaker Paul Ryan to publicly support Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation and outline what actions he would take if President Trump fires Mueller. In a letter to the Speaker, the Members expressed genuine concern that, because the President fired FBI Director James Comey, he may similarly attempt to interfere with the independent investigation by firing Mueller. In the letter, the Members write: In light of Manafort’s indictment and a June 14th report in the Washington Post that President Trump is personally under investigation for obstruction of justice by Mueller's office, we fear that he may once again seek to obstruct an investigation into his campaign by firing its leader. Already, the Administration has attempted to discredit the work of Mueller and his expert legal team, variously describing the investigation as a “fishing expedition,” a “witch hunt,” and a “hoax,” in addition to questioning its costs. We strongly believe that firing the Special Counsel would represent a brazen attempt by the President to shield himself and his associates from the legal consequences of the Mueller investigation. It would also provide yet more convincing evidence that his campaign was guilty of illegally coordinating with a foreign power in order to influence the results of a presidential election. We therefore urge you to put partisan politics aside and issue a statement expressing your support for Mueller and clarifying what actions you will take in the event that he is dismissed or his investigation is disrupted. READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER HERE
10.31.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) led a group of 12 California Members of Congress in urging the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) to divest from its fund connected to Trump Organization properties. In a letter to CalPERS CEO Marcie Frost, the Members expressed outrage that CalPERS would continue to invest in an asset that unconstitutionally funnels money to President Trump. Beyond that, the fund helps bankroll Trump SoHo, a Trump Organization property at the center of recent allegations related to fraud and money laundering. The fraud was apparently so problematic that Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump, Jr. allegedly avoided charges only when Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance overruled his own prosecutors after meeting with Donald Trump's lawyer, who had also given Vance a very large financial contribution. In the letter, the Members write: “The Trump SoHo’s troubled history and increasingly problematic present raises new questions about CalPERS’s ability to meet its legal and ethical obligations when investing in private equity vehicles. CalPERS is also perpetuating continuing violations of the Domestic Emoluments Clause of the U.S. Constitution through its investment in the Fund. State workers from every walk of life - from police and firefighters to nurses and health workers - depend upon your judgment, integrity, and action to safeguard a stable retirement. We are calling upon you now to again take action to prevent your members and the state from being caught up in a scheme of corruption.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
10.27.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) introduced the bicameral Cyber Shield Act of 2017 to create a voluntary program that would independently identify, verify, and label compliant Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices with strong cybersecurity standards. The program would help consumers make well-informed decisions related to cyber and data security. The bill establishes an advisory committee that will create cybersecurity benchmarks for IoT devices such as baby monitors, cameras, cellphones, laptops, and tablets. Companies manufacturing devices that meet the voluntary standards can then display their certification for consumers. Upon introduction of the bill, Mr. Lieu said: “Innovation in the Internet-of-Things space has provided us with revolutionary technology that improves lives and enhances business practices. As one of only four Computer Science majors in Congress, I recognize that we must continue to push for advancements in the tech industry. At the same time, it is critical that we prioritize developing products with the security of consumers’ information in mind. The government and tech companies share an obligation to develop more transparency around the security of our favorite devices. I am proud to introduce this bill alongside Sen. Markey because it will help encourage industries to seek inventive solutions to cyber intrusions while empowering consumers to make smart purchases. This is a necessary step in my ongoing effort to protect privacy and safeguard data for consumers and businesses.” Upon introduction of the bill, Mr. Markey said: “The IoT will also stand for the Internet of Threats unless we put in place appropriate cybersecurity safeguards. With as many as 50 billion IoT devices projected to be in our pockets and homes by 2020, cybersecurity will continue to pose a direct threat to economic prosperity, privacy, and our nation’s security. By creating a cybersecurity certification program, the Cyber Shield Act will help ensure consumers can reliably identify more secure products and rewards manufacturers that adopt the best cybersecurity practices. I thank Congressman Lieu for his partnership on this timely legislation.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL HERE ###
10.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) helped lead more than 60 members of Congress in introducing bipartisan, bicameral legislation ensuring President Donald Trump seeks Congressional approval before attacking North Korea. The “No Unconstitutional Strike Against North Korea Act of 2017” requires the President to receive Congressional authorization to use funds for such a strike. Senator Markey introduced a companion bill today in the Senate. Upon introduction of the bill, Mr. Lieu said: “Our Founders gave the greatest power they knew at the time – the power to declare war – solely and exclusively to Congress. Today, Congress is sending a crystal clear message to President Trump that no matter how many incendiary tweets he sends, we have not authorized the use of force against North Korea. There are no good military options for North Korea. Before President Trump leads America down the uncertain and grisly path towards war, we owe it to our service members, the American people and our allies in Asia to have a thoughtful, deliberate plan of action for North Korea. As a Veteran, I am proud to join dozens of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both chambers to ensure that the American people have a voice in whether we make the sobering decision to take military action. “ Background: The introduction of this bill builds upon the Congressman’s efforts to stop the President from authorizing an unconstitutional strike against North Korea. Previously, the Congressman introduced “Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2016”, which would prohibit the President from launching a nuclear first strike without a declaration of war by Congress.
10.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the Republican plan to nix the State and Local Tax deduction: “The GOP tax plan is absurd. Their proposal to eliminate the state and local tax deduction will lead to a massive tax hike for middle class families in California, New York, New Jersey and other states. California is already a donor state to the federal government, meaning we give more in tax dollars to DC than we receive in services and programs. Increasing taxes on the middle class in states like California in order to fund tax breaks for the wealthy is both unfair and irresponsible. It’s no surprise that Trump is on board with this but moderate Republicans should know better. We still haven’t seen President Trump’s tax returns and we still don’t know how this plan will benefit him personally. What we do know is that this tax plan will hurt American families, plain and simple. I DOUBLE DARE moderate Republicans to vote for this ridiculous tax plan.” ###
10.19.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Rep. Ed Royce (D-California) calling for Administration officials to testify before the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Oct. 4 attack in Niger that resulted in the deaths of four members of U.S. Special Operations Forces. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: I am deeply concerned that over two weeks later, basic facts about the attack against U.S. and Nigerien forces still remain unclear. Sen. John McCain indicated the Administration has not been upfront about the circumstances surrounding the operation or the attack, and has reported at times conflicting information. One of the ways to honor the sacrifice of our four fallen soldiers in Niger is to ensure that they did not die in vain, and that more service members do not fall because we failed to conduct basic oversight of U.S. strategy. Meanwhile, the Trump Administration has not articulated its strategy for the U.S. counter-terrorism mission across Africa, nor has it devoted the necessary resources to empower democratic governments to make progress sustainable, combat radicalization and protect human rights. Four years after the U.S. significantly scaled up our military presence in the Sahel region, it is clear that we’re fighting the wars but we’re not finding the peace. As a Veteran, I firmly believe one of Congress’ most fundamental duties is to conduct oversight over war powers and operations, especially when Americans have died. In light of recent events in Niger, I request that our committee will take action. THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
10.19.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Food and Drug Administration approved the use of gene therapy for certain types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. "This is fantastic news. Immunotherapy is a promising and important new area of cancer treatment and advancements in this field have the potential to cure certain cancer patients. I applaud the FDA for granting this treatment priority review, thus enabling patients in need to have access to this potentially life-saving treatment. "I am proud of pioneers in our district like Kite Pharma for leading the way to targeted, effective cancer treatments. This marks an important milestone in the treatment of serious diseases and I’m excited to see where our science goes from here.” ###
10.10.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Carlos Curbelo (R-Florida) were joined by Reps. Mia Love (R-Utah) and Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) in introducing the Pretrial Integrity and Safety Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill that incentivizes moving away from a money bail system. Under money bail systems, the decision to detain a person prior to their trial is based on their ability to pay bail instead of their flight risk or danger to society. The system disproportionately affects the poor, is expensive, and does not make Americans safer. This bill represents a bicameral effort to curb unjust bail practices and is the companion legislation to S.1593, which was introduced by Sens. Kamala Harris (D-California) and Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) in the Senate. The Pretrial Integrity and Safety Act encourages states to replace their existing bail systems with pretrial risk assessments—a more just system for evaluating the flight and safety risk of defendants facing trial. An individualized risk assessment considers factors such as a person’s past criminal history and the current charge. A handful of places throughout the United States, including Kentucky and the District of Columbia, have already implemented or are in the process of implementing such a system. Upon introduction of this legislation, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: “Everyone is entitled to due process under the Constitution. The way that most states have their bail systems set up means the poorest defendants are punished before their trial, simply because they cannot afford bail. It also means that wealthy but potentially dangerous defendants can avoid pretrial custody. Locking up Americans before they have their day in court simply because they are poor is un-American. Moving to a system where bail decisions are instead based on flight and safety risk will not only restore justice to our criminal justice system, but it will also keep us safer and save taxpayer dollars. In Kentucky, which has used a risk assessment tool in recent years, nearly 90 percent of those released pretrial appeared in court. Pretrial systems based on risk cost on average $7 a day. In comparison, jail beds may cost more than $200 per day. I am pleased to introduce the Pretrial Integrity and Safety Act with Congressman Curbelo today to start fixing our bail system. America should never be a nation where freedom is based on income.” Upon introduction of this legislation, Mr. Curbelo issued the following statement: "Currently, bail systems in states across the country effectively discriminate against poorer defendants," Curbelo said. "Even the smallest financial penalty can be more than a family that is already living paycheck-to-paycheck can afford. Defendants who lack the means to pay are often left incarcerated while wealthier and sometimes more dangerous defendants wait for their day in court with all the comforts of home. The Pretrial Integrity and Safety Act would help modernize our bail system so that bail is set on flight and safety risk instead of financial means — better protecting the American public from more dangerous criminals and giving less fortunate offenders an equal opportunity to prepare for their day in court." Upon introduction of this legislation, Ms. Love issued the following statement: “Americans rightfully expect our justice system to administer equal and fair treatment, while keeping communities safe. This legislation will help states craft solutions that meet these expectations, and I’m proud to cosponsor it.” Upon introduction of this legislation, Ms. Jackson Lee issued the following statement: "I am pleased to be an original co-sponsor of the 'Pretrial Integrity and Safety Act of 2017'. Although our justice system is designed to treat all people equally, that is not always the case. Justice is supposed to be blind, which means that justice is impartial and objective. Unfortunately, over 450,000 Americans sit in jail because they are unable to afford to pay for bails set, even when the bail amount is not excessively high. Low-income communities are disproportionally affected by the cost of high bonds. The Supreme Court ruled in Bearden v. Georgia in 1983 that the Constitution prohibits “punishing a person for his poverty.” Kalief Browder, a 16-year-old young man, was arrested on charges of stealing a backpack. The judge then set bail at $3,000, which his family unfortunately, could not afford. Mr. Browder was sent to jail on Rikers Island for three years while awaiting trial. The charges were dismissed, but the time in solitary confinement caused Mr. Bowder to hang himself in 2015. We can do better, and we should do better to prevent tragedies such as this and others from poisoning our criminal justice system. It is time for bail reform." BACKGROUND INFORMATION In February 2016, Congressman Lieu introduced another piece of legislation called the “No Money Bail Act”, which aims to eliminate the money bail system altogether in the United States. Both bills encourage courts to move away from the money bail system because America should not be a country where freedom is based on income. THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
10.10.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt’s decision to repeal the Clean Power Plan. “I am appalled. The EPA is supposed to protect the environment, but Administrator Pruitt is undermining the Agency’s mission by putting the interests of his friends in the fossil fuel industry before those of the American public. The Trump Administration can pretend that coal can be a viable industry again but their hollow words are just a distraction from efforts to actually assist coal miners searching for work. The coal industry is declining not because of the Clean Power Plan, but as a result of market forces. It's no surprise that a man who cruises around on the private jets of oil executives at taxpayers' expense would sell out to Big Oil. Climate change poses an existential threat to humanity. Take the devastating wildfires currently ravaging Northern California. Scientists have linked the heatwave and drought that preceded them to climate change. In fact, 13 of California's 20 largest wildfires on record have burned in just the last 17 years. The Clean Power Plan will play an integral role in reducing our nation’s carbon emissions and keeping our air and environment clean for future generations. We cannot afford to go backward in addressing climate change. I will do everything I can to fight this disastrous decision.” ###
10.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Don Beyer (D-VA) sent a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn calling on him to immediately revoke the security clearances of White House officials Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. The appeal comes after multiple reports demonstrating Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner’s brazen disregard for ethics and their apparent intention to skirt good governance rules. Reports showed their flagrant hypocrisy having used private emails to hide their correspondence from investigators. They also repeatedly missed deadlines for reporting financial assets to the Office of Government Ethics. Beyond that, Ms. Trump was reportedly close to being indicted for real estate fraud in 2012 but avoided prosecution thanks to a dubious meeting between Donald Trump’s lawyer and the New York District Attorney. This behavior makes them unfit to hold security clearances. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Beyer write: These new revelations, along with the ongoing White House probe of Ms. Trump’s private email use, have compromised Ms. Trump’s integrity and credibility. We are requesting that the White House immediately revoke her security clearance pending an investigation into her actions. Finally, in June we requested the removal of Mr. Kushner’s security clearance based upon the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s probe into Mr. Kushner’s communications with Russian officials, but have seen no action on this matter. In light of the recent developments relating to both Mr. Kushner’s e-mail accounts and his financial disclosure statements, we would like to reiterate our request that you immediately revoke his security clearance. FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
10.04.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) joined Reps. Jeffries (D-NY), Collins (R-NY), Chu (D-CA), and Smith (R-TX) to establish an alternative forum – the Small Claims Board – in the U.S. Copyright Office to resolve infringement claims. The Board would help millions of creators enforce ownership of their intellectual property in situations that are too cost prohibitive to pursue in federal court but have devastating effects on their livelihoods. “More than 2 million hardworking artists in the United States rely on the U.S. Copyright Office to protect their livelihoods. For too long, our legal system skewed in favor of low-volume, high-value industries. But for many independent artists, whose claims of infringement often total a few thousand dollars, it is far too expensive to sue in federal court – essentially forcing creators to forfeit their rights. The Small Claims Board is an important step toward ensuring that digital photographers, graphic artists, illustrators and others have a way to resolve disputes quickly and affordably. I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting this crucial effort.” ###
09.29.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the resignation of Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price. “It’s great that Price took responsibility for his reckless actions but this doesn’t change the Trump Administration’s culture of self-dealing. Tom Price was just one example of numerous department heads who were more concerned with their comfort than with serving the public. At a time when agency heads are slashing programs for sick people, veterans, children, and the elderly, these swamp flyers are sticking the American people with the bill for wasteful – and possibly illegal – travel in private jets around the country If Trump were serious about draining the swamp, he would also fire Secretary Mnuchin and Administrator Pruitt, who have also taken luxury private travel on the taxpayer’s dime. I couldn’t believe I had to introduce a bill this week curbing private plane travel for senior political appointees. What a ridiculous state of affairs we’re in that we have to push to codify basic standards of ethics and good governance." ###
09.29.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke asking her to delay a newly-proposed rule updating the Department’s electronic immigration system until Congress is provided more details. As a naturalized citizen, Mr. Lieu is alarmed that this broad-stroke policy to collect the social media information of anyone who has immigrated to the United States, regardless of status, could have massive privacy and constitutional implications. In his letter, Mr. Lieu asks the following questions: Under what authority does DHS collect and retain “social media information”? I am also deeply concerned your rule will apply to U.S. citizens such as myself. I have lived in the United States for over four decades. Am I subject to your program? I believe your proposed rule must not discriminate against U.S. citizens or LPRs. How will “social media information” be used in the adjudication process? What precautionary steps will you take to ensure that an individual’s political views found in the “social media information” do not impact the adjudication of their immigration benefits? FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
09.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s plan to severely reduce the number of refugees admitted to the United States next year. The President’s plan reduces the number of refugees the U.S. will accept from 110,000 to 45,000. “The decision by the Trump Administration to turn its back on the world’s most vulnerable people is profoundly un-American. We’re letting fear, hate and xenophobia dictate our policies instead of our core values and actual facts. According to the CATO Institute, the likelihood of being killed by a refugee committing a terrorist act is one in 3.6 billion. But the likelihood of being struck by lightning twice is one in nine million. In other words, you are 40,000 percent more likely to be struck by lightning—twice—than to be killed by a refugee-turned-terrorist. As a veteran, I’m appalled at the Trump Administration claiming that our national security comes at the expense of the lives of those fleeing war and famine. Great military strategists teach that we defeat our enemy by knowing our enemy. Our enemies are terrorist networks like ISIS, not refugees fleeing violence and persecution. If we renege on our responsibility to help the most vulnerable, we are no global leader. I am saddened by the Trump Administration’s heartless action, which is both morally wrong and strategically stupid." ###
09.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congresman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) along with Representatives Gallego (D-AZ), Raskin (D-MD), and Jayapal (D-WA) introduced the Stop Waste and Misuse by Presidential Flyers Landing Yet Evading Rules and Standards (SWAMP FLYERS) Act. The bill is in response to senior Trump cabinet officials using taxpayer funds for luxury jet travel. According to media investigations, HHS Secretary Tom Price spent over $400,000 of taxpayer funds on private jet travel, including flying to meet his son for lunch. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt spent over $58,000 of taxpayer funds on private and military jet travel. And Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin flew with his wife on a government jet to Kentucky so they could watch the eclipse. The legislation would prohibit Trump Administration officials from using taxpayer funds for non-commercial air travel. Upon introduction of this legislation, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: "I can't believe we have to introduce a bill like this, but multiple Trump cabinet officials apparently believe taxpayer funds can be used for personal travel benefits. This culture of corruption in the Trump Administration must stop. Secretaries Price and Mnuchin, and Administrator Pruitt owe the American people an apology, and they should pay back the costs of their luxury travel on the taxpayer's dime. Since Secretary Price's actions are so egregious, he should resign immediately. The Trump Administration has already enlarged the swamp, but the tremendous disrespect shown to taxpayers by these senior officials is ridiculous. SAD!" THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
09.27.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON ­– Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) joined Representatives Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), and Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) in calling for the resignation of Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price after it was reported that he wasted taxpayer money by taking needlessly expensive private jets. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and Members write: “At a minimum, the American people expect cabinet secretaries to lead with integrity, accept accountability, and use public resources responsibly,” they wrote in a letter to Price. “In light of your breach of the public trust, we write to urge you to do the right thing and immediately tender your resignation.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
09.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congressman Ruben Gallego (D | Phoenix) sent a letter to Defense Secretary Mattis calling on him to reveal the military’s analysis of the mass destruction that would be inflicted if President Trump follows through on his belligerent rhetoric towards North Korea. As veterans, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Gallego know that pursuing military engagement with North Korea without a strategy is reckless, especially given North Korea’s nuclear capabilities. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Gallego write: “We would like to know expected casualty assessments, how the United States would prevent devastating North Korean retaliation, and what plans the Department has for the humanitarian disaster that would follow any conflict.” "We have not heard detailed analysis of expected U.S. or allied force casualties, expected civilian casualties, what plans exist for the aftermath of a strike - including continuity of the South Korean Government, or how such assessments have factored into the military options presented to the President." THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
09.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after holding a round-table discussion with UCLA students about protecting undocumented youth. On September 5, 2017, President Trump announced his intention to repeal the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which provided deportation relief to undocumented youth who entered the United States as children and met additional requirements. Congress must now enact a law to provide relief for these individuals. “Ending DACA will have real and severely harmful consequences for undocumented youth, including students in Los Angeles, who want nothing more than to continue living and working in the country they call home. This is not the time for political games. I urge my Republican colleagues to join Democrats in supporting a clean passage of the DREAM Act and demanding that Speaker Ryan bring it to the floor for a vote.” ###
09.19.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) presented Petty Officer Third-Class Engineman, Thomas Edwin Patton (74), with two medals he had never received for his service in the United States Navy. Mr. Patton had initially contacted Congressman Lieu’s office in hopes of obtaining one medal he knew he was eligible for. However, while working with the Department of Navy, Congressman Lieu’s office was successfully able to obtain not only one, but two medals Mr. Patton rightfully deserved. Mr. Patton’s impressive military awards and decorations now include the National Defense Service Medal and the Antarctica Service Medal. Congressman Lieu issued the following statement ahead of the presentation: “It is a great honor to present not only one, but two medals to Petty Officer Patton and recognize him for his dedication and contributions to our country. When I heard about his situation, I made a direct inquiry to the United States Navy to make sure he received the awards he so rightfully deserved. I join my fellow Americans in thanking him for his great service.” Petty Officer Thomas Patton, born in Berkley, Michigan, moved to Southern California at a young age and is a graduate of Banning High School in Wilmington, CA. He served in the United States Navy during the 1960s and was stationed on the U.S.S. Tom Bigbee in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. His service includes tours of the Marshall Islands, Guam, the Philippines, Japan, Hong Kong, and Antarctica. He was also presented his ship in full dress to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II as she sailed into Nelson, New Zealand. After his honorable discharge from the Navy, Mr. Patton spent the remainder of his Navy Reserve Service in Long Beach, CA. He and his wife, Kathleen, moved to Torrance in 1977 and both of their daughters graduated from West High School in California’s 33rd district. Most recently, Mr. Patton and his wife celebrated their 53rd wedding anniversary. (Pictured Above: Congressman Ted Lieu, Petty Officer Thomas Patton, his wife Kathleen, daughter Jannette, and son-in-law Pascal)###
09.19.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s address to the United Nations General Assembly. “President Trump’s speech to the United Nations will be remembered not for rallying the international community around our common challenges, but instead for threatening another nation with annihilation. Let us be clear: the issue is not whether the U.S. is capable of destroying North Korea, but rather whether we are willing to allow South Korea, Japan, and potentially Guam to be destroyed in the process—along with hundreds of thousands of American lives." “Name-calling and brash rhetoric make America neither great nor safe. I am also disappointed that President Trump failed to include a single mention of climate change, which poses an existential threat to America and the world.” ###
09.18.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES – Tomorrow, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) will present Petty Officer Third-Class Engineman, Thomas Edwin Patton (74), with two medals he had never received for his service in the United States Navy. Mr. Patton had initially contacted Congressman Lieu’s office in hopes of obtaining one medal he knew he was eligible for. However, while working with the Department of Navy, Congressman Lieu’s office was successfully able to obtain not only one, but two medals Mr. Patton rightfully deserved. Mr. Patton’s impressive military awards and decorations will now include the National Defense Service Medal and the Antarctica Service Medal. Congressman Lieu issued the following statement ahead of the presentation: “It is a great honor to present not only one, but two medals to Petty Officer Patton and recognize him for his dedication and contributions to our country. When I heard about his situation, I made a direct inquiry to the United States Navy to make sure he received the awards he so rightfully deserved. I join my fellow Americans in thanking him for his great service.” Petty Officer Thomas Patton, born in Berkley, Michigan, moved to Southern California at a young age and is a graduate of Banning High School in Wilmington, CA. He served in the United States Navy during the 1960s and was stationed on the U.S.S. Tom Bigbee in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. His service includes tours of the Marshall Islands, Guam, the Philippines, Japan, Hong Kong, and Antarctica. He was also presented his ship in full dress to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II as she sailed into Nelson, New Zealand. After his honorable discharge from the Navy, Mr. Patton spent the remainder of his Navy Reserve Service in Long Beach, CA. He and his wife, Kathleen, moved to Torrance in 1977 and both of their daughters graduated from West High School in California’s 33rd district. Most recently, Mr. Patton and his wife celebrated their 53rd wedding anniversary. ###
09.18.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement after joining Reps. Langevin (D-RI), Shea-Porter (D-NH), and Khanna (D-CA) to introduce the Personal Data Notification and Protection Act, legislation that seeks to address cybersecurity issues by providing for a single national breach notification standard across the country. The bill requires that companies notify affected individuals within 30 days of the discovery of a breach of sensitive personal information and requires the Federal Trade Commission to help coordinate breach notification. Notification of the type of information stolen would need to be provided by mail, telephone or, in certain cases, email. This legislation is a first step for providing consumer protection while also addressing the request from the private sector for stricter oversight and a national standard for how companies disclose and respond to hacks that expose consumer data. “As we continue to deal with massive data breaches such as the recent Equifax incident, we must move forward with legislation to bring a single notification standard to consumers. It is clear that Equifax provided poor communications with consumers about the breach. This legislation will create a single standard and assign one federal regulator to oversee notification. This bill builds on strong data breach standards established in the state of California and allows State Attorney Generals to file suit on behalf of their state’s victims.” ###
09.18.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in support of the launch of Whistleblower Aid, a new non-partisan legal organization based in Washington, D.C., that will assist federal workers, contractors, and members of the armed services with reporting and publicizing government lawbreaking – lawfully, safely, and responsibly – at no cost to them. The group, co-founded by former State Department whistleblower John N. Tye and national security attorney Mark S. Zaid, will provide professional and confidential legal advice and representation to help public servants uphold their oath without breaking the law or exposing themselves to criminal prosecution. "Whistleblower Aid is exactly the type of organization the American people need to make sure government is held accountable. Earlier this year Representative Don Beyer and I created a resource guide on how to blow the whistle under the Whistleblower Protection Laws passed by Congress. Whistleblower Aid can help employees and contractors navigate through what can be a complicated set of laws and regulations. Now, more than ever, we need patriots to step forward and inform the public of any unlawful or inappropriate activity by government officials." ###
09.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement upon introduction of the Cyber Diplomacy Act (H.R. 3776), legislation that Congressman Lieu co-led with a bipartisan group headed by House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce and Ranking Member Eliot Engel. The legislation establishes a high-level Office of Cyber Issues at the Department of State, requires a public international cyberspace strategy, and creates Congressional oversight over international cyber agreements. “The U.S. cannot lead on international cyber issues if we don’t have anyone sitting at the negotiating table or a clearly-defined strategy to guide them. Rather than help the situation, the Trump Administration has made the mind-boggling decision to wind-down the already limited work the State Department conducts on cyber issues.” “I am proud to join my colleagues today in rejecting that approach by introducing the bipartisan Cyber Diplomacy Act, which will build the structure, strategy and oversight at the State Department to ensure that U.S. leadership extends to the critical areas of cyberspace. As cyber issues continue to permeate every region and issue area – from intellectual property to human rights – setting international norms to guide states’ behavior and developing international agreements to enforce them will be more important than ever.” THE FULL TEXT OF H.R. 3776 CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
09.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) led a letter to U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley urging her to join the U.N. Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) in calling for an independent, international investigation into the allegations of human rights violations committed by all parties to the conflict in Yemen. On September 13, 2017, the Netherlands and Canada unveiled a draft resolution to establish such an international commission of inquiry. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and Members write: “In light of the damning report by the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) on September 5, 2017, it is clear that previous efforts to protect civilians and achieve a peaceful resolution have failed and the situation requires a new mechanism to bring accountability to this manmade conflict. We write to urge you to use your voice at the United Nations to join the OHCHR in calling for an independent, international investigation into the allegations of violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in Yemen.” “During your visit to Geneva in June, you explicitly cited the U.N. investigative bodies for Syria and North Korea as examples of the Human Rights Council “at its best” by “calling out human rights violators and abuses,” but noted that when the Human Rights Council fails to act in the face of grotesque human rights violations, “it undermines its own credibility and the cause of human rights.” We agree with you. The situation in Yemen is precisely what the U.N. Human Rights Council was created to address.” Congressman Lieu’s previous work on Yemen: In July 2017, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Lieu’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 that requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen to avoid civilian casualties. In May 2017, Congressmen Lieu and Ted Yoho (R-FL) called on House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce to review the proposed sale of precision-guided munitions to Saudi Arabia. Congressman Lieu also introduced legislation to place conditions on all air-to-ground munitions sales to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The three conditions relate to avoiding civilian casualties, facilitating humanitarian aid, and targeting U.S.-designated terrorist organizations such as AQAP and ISIS. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu led a letter with a bipartisan group of 30 Members of Congress to Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson requesting information related to the operational conduct of the Royal Saudi Air Force in Yemen. In November 2016, Congressman Lieu led the Lantos Human Rights Commission in holding a hearing on the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. In August 2016, Congressman Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The letter raised concerns regarding the Saudi-led Coalition’s killing of civilians. Previously, Congressman Lieu had repeatedly raised similar concerns, sending letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter. He also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia. THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
09.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. LIEU QUESTIONS THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S APPROACH TO NORTH KOREA Mr. Lieu questions witnesses from the State and Treasury Departments during the House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on North Korea. “I served on active duty under U.S. Pacific Command in the 1990s in Guam. We did a whole series of different exercises, most of them directed at North Korea, and it was very clear – there were no good military options.” “If we are going to pursue diplomacy, it would be a good idea to have an ambassador to South Korea that can help us. [Without one] it does send a message that we are not pursuing diplomacy seriously and that we are disrespecting our critical ally, South Korea. I urge the Trump Administration to get its act together and nominate an ambassador to South Korea.” ***WATCH THE FULL VIDEO HERE. *** ###
09.08.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlate and Ranking Member John Conyers requesting a hearing to investigate how and why the Equifax data breach occurred. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: “It has recently come to my attention that Equifax, a large consumer credit reporting agency, suffered a massive data breach – an intentional and malicious act – that may have exposed the data of up to 143 million American users.” “According to reports, hackers penetrated a Web-based application for Equifax and subsequently obtained credit card numbers for 209,000 consumers and credit dispute documents for 182,000 users. It appears that Social Security numbers, birthdates, and home addresses may have been compromised as well.” “In light of recent events, I request the Committee call upon representatives from the “Big Three” credit reporting agencies – Experian, TransUnion, and Equifax – to testify not only on the breach that occurred in May 2017, but also to identify how each company is taking proactive, defensive steps to prevent such breaches in the future.” “Congress has a strong role to play in preventing such attacks on our financial and IT infrastructure, and must hold those entrusted with our most sensitive data to account.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
09.07.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the House of Representatives passing his amendment to the Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations for the Department of State to protect the Office of Global Criminal Justice (GCJ). In July, Congressman Lieu led a letter signed by 30 Members of Congress to Secretary Tillerson in response to disturbing reports that the Trump Administration was preparing to shutter the office. “I am pleased that the House of Representatives has passed my amendment to protect the U.S. Government’s war crimes office from efforts to shutter it. At a time when we are witnessing some of the worst crimes against humanity in a generation, the United States has a moral obligation to drive efforts to prevent atrocities and hold war criminals accountable. Today, Congress has sent a clear message to the Trump Administration that the State Department must continue to prioritize human rights and the rule of law. It is now up to the Administration to appoint new leadership for this office so that it can continue its life-saving work.” BACKGROUND: Among other achievements, the GCJ obtained and helped authenticate the famed “Caesar photos” documenting atrocities committed by the Assad regime in Syria; coordinated the State Department’s financial and political support for an African Union court investigating those responsible for crimes in South Sudan; and has advised foreign governments on transitional justice from Rwanda to Colombia to Sri Lanka. ###
09.06.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 6, 2017 WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding eight amendments he recently introduced to H.R. 3354 – the fiscal year 2018 spending measure. The amendments would prohibit the use of funds for the reimbursement of costs incurred by the government at commercial properties in which the President of the United States has a financial stake or that bear the Trump name. “Since January, President Trump has spent 76 days of his total 224 in office at a property that he or his family owns. Every time he visits his commercial properties, he enriches himself at taxpayer’s expense. Unless Congress steps in, this gross abuse of power will continue. From the Secret Service budget for golf carts at the President’s Mar-a-Lago and Bedminster properties, to the State Department spending $15,000 at the Trump Hotel in Vancouver for his children, taxpayers are enriching the holdings of the President and his family. That is why I have offered eight amendments to this year’s spending bill that would prevent the federal government from spending funds at properties owned by the Trump family. I urge my colleagues to join me in helping to drain the swamp.” INFORMATION ON THE AMENDMENTS: Mr. Lieu has introduced 8 identical amendments, one for each individual spending bill in this package, which prohibit the use of funds for the reimbursement of costs incurred by the government at commercial properties in which the President of the United States has a financial stake or that bear the Trump name. These properties are enumerated in the amendment. THE FULL TEXT OF REP. LIEU’S AMENDMENTS CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “As an immigrant to the United States brought here when I was three years old, I know that our nation’s embrace of immigrants is what makes it great. Trump's cowardly decision to end DACA goes against the very forces that have made America an exceptional country. Deporting hundreds of thousands of Asians and Latinos—nearly half of whom were brought to the U.S. before the age of 7—is not only cruel, it will hurt our economy. One report estimates an economic loss of $460 billion over the next decade. I stand firmly with my Democratic colleagues to fight this action and do whatever we can to protect DREAMers. I call on Speaker Ryan to work with Democrats to extend the DACA program through legislation.” ###
09.03.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. In 2012, President Obama established DACA to protect young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Those protected by DACA, also called DREAMers, met several requirements including being under 16 when arriving in the United States; being enrolled in school or having completed high school or earned a general education development (GED) certificate; and posing no threat to public safety. Since DACA’s inception, nearly 800,000 individuals have received DACA protection, though it is estimated that 1.7 million young immigrants are DACA-eligible. Today’s announcement puts these DREAMers at risk of deportation. “I am outraged by the President’s foolish decision to end DACA. This decision will cost our economy $460 billion over the next decade. More importantly, it ignores our nation’s rich immigrant heritage. Our nation can never be great without embracing immigrants. Ending DACA is an unconscionable assault on thousands of young Americans who know no other home than the United States. I will stand firmly with my Democratic colleagues to fight this action and do whatever we can to protect DREAMers.” ###
09.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in honor of Labor Day, which will be celebrated on Monday, September 4, 2017. “This Labor Day, we celebrate and honor the American labor movement and the millions of hard-working men and women who have stood up and fought for workers’ rights. Through organizing and bargaining, labor unions have been the driving force of change for better fair wages and working conditions. We owe a great debt to these first champions of workers’ rights, which is why every Labor Day I plan to highlight two individuals whose work has improved the lives of American workers.” Luisa Moreno Luisa Moreno, born Blanca Rosa Lopez Rodrigues, was a Guatemalan-born revolutionary leader and social activist. As a seamstress in a garment factory in New York City, Luisa started her labor career by joining a group of Latino activists who protested the dangerous and unfair working conditions of the factory. She then went on to work at the American Federation of Labor (AFL) organizing Florida tobacco workers and soon became the first female and Latino member of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO). Luisa Moreno is also known for being a vocal advocate for immigrant and Hispanic civil rights in the 1930s and 40s, and helped to clear the name of many Mexican Americans who were falsely indicted in the Sleepy Lagoon murder. To learn more about Luisa Moreno, please visit: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Luisa-Moreno. Mary Harris “Mother” Jones Born in 1830 in Cork, Ireland, Mary Harris became a prominent labor organizer after moving to the United States to flee the potato famine. Mary became known as Mother Jones because of her care for the coal miners and workers that she advocated for. She became a leader in many labor organizations such as the Knights of Labor and the United Mine Workers Union. Mother Jones is also known for her progressive politics and founded the Social Democratic Party in 1898. She is one of the most famous women in America and is also considered one of the most dangerous for her activism in politics and labor. To learn more about Mother Jones, please visit: http://www.motherjonesmuseum.org/information/who-was-mother-jones/. ###
08.30.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding H.R. 1697, the Israel Anti-Boycott Act of 2017: “Last April, I cosponsored bipartisan, bicameral legislation, H.R. 1697, designed to achieve one thing: update a decades-old, court-upheld law that protects U.S. companies from being bullied into unauthorized foreign boycotts. That law was passed in 1977 in response to the Arab League Boycott, but it cannot apply to more modern foreign boycott efforts orchestrated at the United Nations or other multilateral institutions until it is amended. Several months after legislation to update the law was introduced the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) raised concerns that the legislation, as currently drafted, risks undermining Americans’ free speech. As a life-long defender of First Amendment protections and a card-carrying member of the ACLU, I take these assertions very seriously. “Given that the intended purpose of the legislation has absolutely nothing to do with curbing Americans’ free speech, I have urged the bill’s sponsors to work with the ACLU and other stakeholders to address the specific language they view as problematic. I understand that one of the bill’s sponsors, Sen. Ben Cardin (D-MD), is currently engaged in that legislative process and plans to develop alternative language. I look forward to reviewing the changes born out of that review to ensure the legislation meets our country’s high standard of protecting free speech.”
08.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS), urging one of the largest public pension funds in the country to take immediate action to remedy serious legal and ethical issues regarding indirect payments to the Trump Organization. In April, Free Speech For People and Courage Campaign, two government watchdog groups, called upon CalPERS to uphold its legal and fiduciary duties and end this flow of payments from state coffers to the President. After a report by Reuters identified CalPERS as one of the eleven state and local pension funds invested in a real estate fund that owns the Trump Soho Luxury Hotel and Condominium, Free Speech For People launched a petition urging CalPERS to act in obligation to their beneficiaries to manage their investments in accordance with the laws. The CEO of CalPERS responded to Free Speech For People’s letter by promising to continue to “monitor and analyze” the situation with the “expectation” that CIM Group will manage the fund in the best interests of CalPERS’s members. Based on CalPERS inadequate response, Congressman Lieu’s letter strongly urges the public pension to obey the law of the land. “Public funds should not be invested in a scheme that illegally enriches the President. CalPERS has a duty to obey the laws of the land, including the U.S. Constitution, and it has a fiduciary duty to conduct due diligence to avoid unethical and illegal investments,” said Congressman Ted Lieu. “CalPERS has an unprecedented opportunity to take action that protects its 1.8 million members and preserves one of the fundamental principles of our democracy: The President should act based on national interest, not his own financial interests,” said Shanna Cleveland, Senior Counsel for Free Speech For People. To date, more than 12,000 Californian residents have signed a petition calling on CalPERS to divest Trump SoHo. THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
08.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. LIEU’S OP-ED FEATURED IN THE HILL “N. Korea threat makes work on game-changing missile defense technology a priority” Online at The Hill, Mr. Lieu writes about the threat of North Korea and the need for the U.S. to create a robust missile defense system. “Seventy-five years ago, our nation embarked on the Manhattan Project to create weapons of mass destruction. The threat from North Korea shows we need another Manhattan Project to stop such weapons.” “Despite the growing North Korean threat, the U.S. government is neglecting to adequately invest in game-changing technology. While the House of Representatives has wisely increased overall missile defense spending this year, there is no national effort; programs to fund “directed energy” projects are a small fraction of what we spent on the Manhattan Project.” “For over 20 years, we have been staring at the chess board as North Korea carved itself a queen. The smart move now is not to launch a risky offensive—but to put our own new piece on the board that can neutralize theirs.” ***The Full Text of the The Hill piece can be found HERE. *** ###
08.18.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTOn - Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Torrance), Rep. Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-San Pedro), and Rep. Jared Huffman (D-San Rafael) are urging Secretary of Interior Ryan Zinke to protect the Pacific Ocean from dangerous activities by the oil and gas industry. In a letter cosigned by 36 of their colleagues, the members say Zinke should exclude all new Pacific Ocean lease sales from any future offshore drilling plan. The Pacific Ocean and the coasts of California, Oregon, and Washington are home to vital ecosystems that support fishing and tourism industries. California’s costal economy generates $662 billion in wages and $1.7 trillion in gross domestic product. Ocean tourism and recreation in Oregon and Washington generate more than $16 billion in economic activity, hundreds of thousands of jobs, and are substantial drivers of the states’ economies. Under the 2017-2022 Oil and Gas Leasing Program, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) decided not to include any new lease sales in the Pacific Ocean. Trump administration officials have made it clear they intend to revise that offshore drilling plan and expand oil and gas drilling. “As you conduct a review of our nation’s existing oil and gas leases, we again strongly urge you to reject proposals to open the Pacific Ocean off the coasts of California, Oregon, and Washington to new offshore areas to drilling and exploration,” wrote the lawmakers. “The Pacific coast has great potential for wind, tidal and wave energy development. Instead of new offshore drilling leases we should invest in alternative renewable energy development effort,” they added. Moreover, the Pacific Ocean provides habitats for a wide variety of endangered and threatened species. Significant federal, state, and local resources have been expended to protect these species and improve the health of state fisheries. “The Pacific coastline is far too important to the people, environment, and economies of California, Oregon, and Washington, to put it as risk through new offshore oil and gas drilling,” the lawmakers also wrote. In addition to Reps. Barragán, Huffman and Lieu, the letter was cosigned by Representatives: Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ); Alan Lowenthal (D-CA); Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR); Zoe Lofgren (D-CA); Adam Smith (D-WA); Pramila Jayapal (D-WA); Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR); Earl Blumenauer (D-OR); Kurt Schrader (D-OR); John Garamendi (D-CA); Mike Thompson (D-CA); Doris Matsui (D-CA); Jerry McNerney (D-CA); Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA); Barbara Lee (D-CA); Jackie Speier (D-CA); Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA); Jimmy Panetta (D-CA); Salud Carbajal (D-CA); Brad Sherman (D-CA); Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA); Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA); Mark Takano (D-CA); Scott Peters (D-CA); Keith Ellison (D-MN); James P. McGovern (D-MA); Joseph Crowley (D-NY); Betsy McCollum (D-MN); Anthony Brown (D-MD); John Yarmuth (D-KY); Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC); Jim Langevin (D-RI); Jared Polis (D-CO); Ruben Gallego (D-AZ); A. Donald McEachin (D-VA); and, Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI). THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
08.15.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) was joined by members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC) in sending a letter to President Trump urging him to nominate a new Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security. On May 8, 2017, HFAC members wrote to the President asking him not to delay in nominating a candidate to this position. Since that time, no nomination has been made and Acting Assistant Secretary Bill Miller has tendered his resignation, leaving the position vacant. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and HFAC Members write:“All Americans remember the heartbreak of losing four diplomatic personnel in Benghazi on September 11, 2012, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens. Much was made during last year’s election campaign by you and others in your party about the need for greater security for those serving in diplomatic roles abroad.” “Now, however, it appears your interest in strengthening the security of our diplomats has disappeared. The budget you proposed would eliminate a fifth of the State Department’s funding for diplomatic security, endangering our personnel and their families.” “The United States must never ask our citizens to serve their nation abroad without providing them the peace of mind that they will be protected while doing so. After making Benghazi such a central issue of your campaign, your disregard for the security of our diplomats sends a terrible message and shows a serious failure of leadership.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
07.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the House passage of two amendments he co-led with Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI) to the national security spending bills for Fiscal Year 2018 (H.R. 3219). Amendment #64 increases funding for the DoD Cyber Scholarship Program by $10 million, while Amendment #65 increases R&D funding by $20 million for the Missile Defense Agency’s directed energy program for boost-phase missile defense. “Protecting national security means meeting not only today’s challenges but those of the future. I am proud that the House of Representatives today adopted two forward-thinking amendments I introduced with my friend and colleague Jim Langevin. As a computer science major, I know that one of our nation’s biggest obstacles to improving cybersecurity is recruitment. Funding DoD’s Cyber Scholarship will help ensure that the next generation has the necessary skills to fight the cyber battles and defend DoD’s networks. On missile defense, directed energy programs such as high-energy lasers represent the most promising solutions we have to disable ICBM’s during the initial boost-phase, which has become increasingly important in light of North Korea’s recent missile tests. I applaud Congressman Langevin for taking the lead on these important issues, and I commend the House for taking these two bipartisan steps for national security.” ###
07.27.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of House passage of Representative Brat’s (R-VA) amendment (#21) to the national security “minibus” spending bill—the Department of Defense Appropriations Act—for Fiscal Year 2018. Amendment #21 prohibits the Department of Veterans Affairs from spending money on any study that causes significant pain or distress to dogs. Mr. Lieu is a cosponsor of the Brat Amendment. “The House of Representatives has taken yet another important step for our nation’s veterans, American taxpayers, and our canine friends. With the passage of this amendment, we are renewing our commitment to taking care of our veterans without wasting resources to conduct unethical and inhumane experiments on dogs. I applaud Representative Brat for taking the lead on this issue, and I am proud that the House has adopted this common-sense measure to the minibus.” ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND The Los Angeles VA facility recently announced that it was discontinuing a two-decades-old canine research program. In experiments at the VA facility, Dobermans were bred to suffer from narcolepsy, and subsequently injected with methamphetamines daily for six months, killed, and dissected. On May 8, 2017, Reps. Lieu and Titus (D-NV), along with seven other House Members, sent a letter to the VA Inspector General, Michael J. Missal, raising concerns about the lack of transparency and accountability in the controversial dog experiments. On June 9, the VA announced it was terminating this research program. In addition, reports have indicated that the McGuire VA Medical Center in Richmond also conducted cruel, and sometimes botched, experiments on dogs. These healthy dogs underwent surgery to receive implanted devices inducing irregular heartbeats and were forced to run on treadmills until they collapsed. ###
07.27.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter, signed by 30 Members of Congress, to Secretary Tillerson in response to disturbing reports that the State Department is preparing to close its Office of Global Criminal Justice (GCJ), the sole office in the United States Government dedicated exclusively to the prevention of atrocities and holding war criminals to account. In the letter, Rep. Lieu and Members write: “If true, these reports indicate that your office has made the decision to dismantle the Department’s primary repository of technical expertise related to war crimes and crimes against humanity, even before the conclusion of your ongoing organizational review. This decision would send the message that the Department of State is de-prioritizing human rights and the rule of law.” “Among other achievements, GCJ obtained and helped authenticate the famed “Caesar photos” documenting atrocities committed by the Assad regime in Syria; coordinated the State Department’s financial and political support for an African Union court investigating those responsible for crimes in South Sudan; and advised foreign governments on transitional justice from Rwanda to Colombia to Sri Lanka.” “Closing this office would unilaterally degrade the U.S. Government’s knowledge base on criminal accountability at a time when we are witnessing some of the worst war crimes and crimes against humanity in a generation. From bringing Syria’s Assad to justice to addressing mass rape in the Central African Republican, it is the GCJ that stands ready to design a legally-sound international tribunal based on best practices.” THE FULL TEXT OF MR. LIEU'S LETTER ###
07.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement following President Trump’s decision to bar transgender people from serving in the United States Military. “The President's exclusion of Americans who happen to be transgender from serving in the military is not based on facts, it is based on naked bigotry. I know because I served on active duty. The military doesn't care what your sexual orientation or identity is, or who you love. It cares about whether you can shoot straight and complete the mission. The President's discriminatory decision harms our military readiness for our volunteer-based military.” “Thousands of transgender Americans are already in the military. Why? Because they are qualified, patriotic and willing to die for their country. There is zero evidence a transgender sniper would be any less qualified than a gay sniper or a straight sniper. Today is a sad day for America.” ###
07.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County), Matt Cartwright (D | Pennsylvania), and Ann Kuster (D | New Hampshire) issued the following statements upon introduction of the “New Collar Jobs Act.” This legislation seeks to improve our economy and our security by re-educating industrial workers for high-demand jobs in cybersecurity. Congressman Ted Lieu:“I am proud to introduce the New Collar Jobs Act, a bill that will help re-educate our workforce with the skills needed to defend our nation against cyberattacks. I am deeply concerned about the many devastating cyberattacks and threats to our national security, particularly in the industrial sector. With high unemployment impacting this sector and the many cyber threats to power plants and manufacturing plants, our legislation will re-tool our workers for careers of the future. Our vision is to improve our economy and national security by re-educating industrial workers with high-demand skills in cyber to fill these “New Collar” jobs – positions that have competitive salaries, career growth potential, and cannot be outsourced.” Congressman Matt Cartwright:“The New Collar Jobs Act would spur job growth in economically distressed areas while addressing the shortage of the cyber-security workforce. I am proud to cosponsor this bill that works to both stimulate the economy and strengthen our national security, and I look forward to advancing this important piece of legislation.” Congresswoman Ann Kuster:“Enhancing and protecting cyber security is one of the biggest challenges to safeguarding our economy and national security. This important legislation will give workers new opportunities to train in the skills necessary to stand out in the 21st Century workforce while providing companies and the federal government with critical cyber security expertise.” The New Collar Jobs Act fosters job growth by re-educating workers. It will help our country by: creating jobs in economically-distressed regions supporting the infrastructure and industrial sectors; educating workers in early to mid-career stages to be qualified for higher paying, sustainable jobs; addressing a critical shortage of specialized workers with operations technology and cybersecurity knowledge; and establishing a workforce to provide information security for critical infrastructure and manufacturing organizations making our nation safer. THE FULL TEXT OF THE NEW COLLAR JOBS ACT CAN BE FOUND HERE A SUMMARY OF THE NEW COLLAR JOBS ACT CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
07.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding two amendments he introduced to the Make America Safe Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2018. "Protecting our state secrets and taxpayer dollars should be no-brainers for those running the government—but they apparently are not for this President or this Republican-controlled Congress.” "Despite repeatedly lying about his meetings with the Russians, Jared Kushner continues to have access to classified information and an office in the West Wing. Let us be clear: Any individual who committed the same act and was not related to the President would have been stripped of their security clearance and investigated. If the President wants to create special rules for his son-in-law, Congress must act instead by prohibiting him from receiving classified information and relieving taxpayers from paying his expenses.” "Meanwhile, the President's company continues to receive millions of dollars from government agencies that are forced to rent hotel rooms, office space and golf karts at his commercial properties. The Office of the President should never be used for personal gain or enrichment. That is why I have introduced an amendment to prohibit the Department of Defense from purchasing anything from a property owned by the President or a member of his family.” "I am confident that every American can agree on two things: that we should protect our state secrets, and that the President of the United States should not make millions of dollars from U.S. taxpayers. If House Republicans choose to block debate on my amendments, they will be once again choosing fealty to Trump over country.” INFORMATION ON THE AMENDMENTS The first amendment will prohibit anyone, who has resubmitted their SF-86 security clearance form more than twice to add previously undisclosed Russian contacts, from receiving salary, expenses - including for support staff and office space, or classified information. The second amendment will prohibit the Department of Defense from conducting business, including the purchasing of hotel rooms or office space, with any entity owned by the President or a member of his immediate family. THE FULL TEXT OF MR. LIEU’S AMENDMENTS CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
07.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REPRESENTATIVES LIEU AND GALLEGO READ DONALD TRUMP JR.’S EMAILS ON HOUSE FLOOR Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | California) and Congressman Ruben Gallego (D I Arizona) take to the House Floor to read Donald Trump Jr.’s emails. *** WATCH THE FULL VIDEO HERE.*** ###
07.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to the House passage of his amendment (#93) to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 that requires the Departments of Defense and State to report to Congress on whether the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are abiding by their commitments in Yemen. “Today, we have achieved an important victory for the civilians of Yemen and for accountability in our foreign arms sales. Despite years of documentation that the Saudi-led coalition operating in Yemen has failed to avoid civilian casualties, this Administration has refused to answer basic questions about the coalition’s track record as it has continued selling them weapons. I am proud that the House has adopted my amendment to this year’s defense authorization bill to require basic answers and bring accountability to both the coalition in Yemen and the Administration supporting it. We must never allow arms sales to move forward – even to U.S. allies – if we do not have absolute confidence in our partner’s willingness and ability to avoid civilian casualties.” ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND In May 2017, following extensive Congressional concern over the operational conduct of the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen, Saudi Foreign Minister al-Jubeir sent a letter to Secretary Tillerson with a list of commitments the Saudis were taking to improve their targeting capabilities and avoid civilian casualties. Those commitments included abiding by a No Strike List and Restricted Target List of over 33,000 targets and increasing their vetting of targets. Congressman Lieu’s amendment to the FY18 NDAA, which passed by voice vote, requires the Departments of Defense and State to submit a joint report to Congress every six months on whether the coalition is abiding by those commitments. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu led a letter with a bipartisan group of 30 Members of Congress to Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson requesting information related to the operational conduct of the Royal Saudi Air Force in Yemen. In August 2016, Congressman Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The letter raised concerns regarding the Saudi-led Coalition’s killing of civilians. Previously, Congressman Lieu had repeatedly raised similar concerns, sending letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter. He also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia. ###
07.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the passing of Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Liu Xiaobo. "Liu Xiaobo was a champion for human rights, freedom of expression, and peaceful democratic change in China. His life's work remains aspirational to many in China and around the world. One of the reasons he won the Nobel Peace Prize was because he eloquently spoke truth to power. We must continue to pursue Liu's vision and work to secure the ability for his wife, Liu Xia, to leave China for a country of her choosing." ###
07.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Washington Post revealed that the State Department spent more than $15,000 on rooms at the Trump Hotel in Vancouver. “We now know the latest disturbing example of the Trump family profiting off the presidency at the taxpayer’s expense. Recently, the Washington Post broke the news that the State Department spent more than $15,000 on rooms at the Trump Hotel in Vancouver so members of the President’s family could headline the tower’s grand opening.” “As the Post reports, ‘Such business trips by Trump’s children have put U.S. government agencies in a necessary — albeit potentially awkward — arrangement of engaging in taxpayer-funded transactions with the president’s private company.’ Not only is this awkward –under the Domestic Emoluments Clause, it may be illegal.” “From the $88,000 the Secret Service spent on lodging for Eric Trump’s business trip to Uruguay, to the $25 million they spent on trips to Mar-a-Lago, time and time again we have watched Donald Trump enrich himself while taxpayers subsidize his businesses. I believe hardworking Americans deserve better. That is why I introduced the SWAMP Act, or the Stop Waste and Misuse By The President Act, which would ensure the President reimburses the Treasury Department for costs associated with trips to his own properties. Congress has a strong role to play in protecting the American people from fraud and abuse, and this commonsense bill is a key part of that effort.” INFORMATION ABOUT H.R. 2414, THE SWAMP ACT CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
07.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in recognition of local youth receiving Congressional Awards. The Congressional Award Bronze Medal was presented to Blake Peters of Santa Monica and Ishan Gaur of Rancho Palos Verdes along with the Congressional Award Silver which was presented to Ishan Gaur and Edward Park of Rancho Palos Verdes and Kayla Samimi of Manhattan Beach. These individuals affected positive change within their communities and are being recognized for their achievement of their personal goals and development. “I am happy to award these bright young minds with well-earned Congressional Medals. Their dedication to serving others and self-betterment exemplifies a promising work ethic and a commitment to our nation’s future. I am honored to represent such passionate constituents.” Any constituent aged 13 ½- 24 years old can earn this prestigious award, click here for more information. ###
07.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | California) and Congressman Ruben Gallego (D I Arizona) sent a letter to FEC Acting General Counsel Lisa Stevenson requesting an immediate investigation of Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, and Jared Kushner for possible violations of federal election law. Under the Federal Election Campaign Act, it is illegal to accept anything of value from a foreign national in connection to a local, state, or federal election. Specifically, the letter points out that – even if the Trump campaign did not receive the promised opposition research – the law prohibits solicitation as well as receipt of “anything of value” from a foreign national. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: “We write with regard to the conduct of Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort, all of whom appear to have violated the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (FECA, U.S.C. § 30101) while serving as advisors to Donald Trump for President, Inc. While it is possible the conduct discussed in this letter may violate laws against treason and other crimes, at the very least it appears these individuals have violated FECA’s ban on soliciting from a foreign national a ‘contribution or donation of money or other thing of value, or to make an express or implied promise to make a contribution or donation, in connection with a Federal, State, or local election. The penalties for violations of FECA can include severe fines or imprisonment.” “If recent reports by the New York Times are correct, the Russian attorney with whom [Trump campaign associates] met under the premise of receiving documents which would “incriminate Hillary [Clinton]" and which explicitly came from the Russian government would have constituted an offering of such a proscribed ‘thing of value.’ Given the gravity of these concerns, we request the FEC open an immediate investigation into possible violations of federal law by Donald Trump Jr. and his associates in connection with the 2016 presidential campaign.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
07.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - In a pointed response to President Trump’s statements from the G-20 summit earlier this week, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today introduced legislation to prohibit the United States from collaborating with Russia on matters of cyber security. The legislation is cosponsored by Congressmen Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Ted Lieu (CA-33). Boyle also introduced a similar amendment to the National Defense Authorization bill, H.R. 2810, on the House floor this week for consideration. “When it comes to American security, we must be clear and unwavering,” Congressman Boyle said in a statement ahead of the introduction of H.R. ####, the No Cyber Cooperation with Russia Act. “There’s no room for reckless comments or actions that threaten our democracy and alienate our true allies. The President’s comments are indicative of the lack of seriousness he is giving this issue, and just the latest example of him playing fast and loose with American foreign policy and our place in the world. This legislation will formalize our rejection of President Trump’s delusional plans and our shared commitment to keeping our nation safe from foreign aggressors like Russia. Frankly, I am appalled that this legislation is necessary.” After the President tweeted Sunday about plans to form an “impenetrable Cyber Security unit” with Vladimir Putin, Congressman Boyle announced his intention to bring the issue before Congress in order to prevent such coordination. A chorus of bipartisan voices from across the country joined him in condemning the President’s plan as a serious threat to American security. “You don’t need to be a computer science major to know that sharing cyber intelligence with the top perpetrator of cyber attacks weakens U.S. national security,” said Rep. Lieu. “When the Russians get their hands on cyber intelligence, they exploit it – as they did last month with the NotPetya malware attack targeting Ukraine and the West. It is a sad state of affairs when Congress needs to prohibit this type of information sharing with an adversary, but since we apparently do, I am proud to introduce the No Cyber Cooperation with Russia Act with my friends Brendan Boyle and Ruben Gallego. I urge my colleagues across the aisle to join us in sending a clear message that Congress will not stand for this proposal to undermine U.S. national security.” "President Trump has proposed plenty of dumb ideas in his first six months in office, but a cybersecurity partnership with Russia might be the very worst," said Rep. Gallego. "Simply put, we would be inviting the fox into the hen house. I'm proud to support legislation to block this initiative because America should be confronting Putin — not coddling him like President Trump has." H.R. #### would explicitly prevent the U.S. government from joining any type of partnership or working group with Russia that focuses on cyber issues. Hostile cyber offensives like the hacking of the 2016 U.S. presidential election have come to define Russia’s approach to foreign policy. Earlier this year, Congressman Boyle introduced H.R. 1997, the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act. In sharp contrast to President Trump’s proposed collaboration with Russia, H.R. 1997 would solidify U.S. cyber cooperation with our close ally Ukraine, which has been the target of significant Russian cyber attacks. “At this crucial time for our nation’s cyber defenses, we should be shoring up our relationships with countries like Ukraine who share our values, not opening the door to our most vile intruders,” stated Congressman Boyle. ###
07.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) wrote to the Alabama State Bar (ASB) Office of General Counsel highlighting possible violations of the Alabama Rules of Professional Conduct, which govern the behavior of all lawyers admitted to the ASB. The letter discusses Mr. Sessions’ possible violation of the terms of his recusal regarding any matters related to the 2016 campaigns, false statements under oath during his confirmation hearings, and possible conflict of interest violations. Specifically, Mr. Lieu cites Rules 1.11 (“Successive Government and Private Employment”), 3.3 (“Candor Towards the Tribunal”), and 8.4 (“Misconduct”). In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: “As a Member of Congress serving on the Judiciary Committee, I believe respect for the rule of law and proper oversight of our judicial system are vital to a healthy democracy. Therefore, I would like to call your attention to several actions taken by Attorney General Sessions that appear to have violated Alabama Rules of Professional Conduct 1.11 (“Successive Government and Private Employment”), 3.3 (“Candor Towards the Tribunal”), and 8.4 (“Misconduct”). I respectfully request this letter be included for the record in any potential existing or future investigation into Attorney General Sessions.” “It is deeply disturbing that Mr. Comey’s firing – in which Mr. Sessions played a role by crafting a cover letter for Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein’s memo urging Mr. Comey’s firing – appears to have been based, in part, on Mr. Comey’s handling of the ongoing FBI investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 elections.” FULL TEXT OF MR. LIEU’S LETTER ###
07.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released a statement following reports of North Korea testing an intercontinental ballistic missile. Mr. Lieu has been highly critical of Trump Administration strategic missteps when it comes to North Korea.“The Trump Administration has failed to make any meaningful progress in addressing the North Korean threat. In fact, all of their bluster and threats appear to have only made the situation worse. While experts predict North Korea is still years away from being able to miniaturize a reliable nuclear warhead for an ICBM, the successful launch shows that the Trump Administration needs a new approach. There are no good military options against North Korea, and any conflict would be catastrophic.” “Instead of further provoking North Korea, the Administration needs to engage in the difficult but necessary work of diplomacy. It is unconscionable that the President has yet to nominate an Ambassador to South Korea or an Assistant Secretary for Nonproliferation – key positions for addressing this ongoing crisis. Now is the time to negotiate and use all of America's non-military sources of power, not escalate and cause a fatal miscalculation with a country that has weapons of mass destruction.” ###
06.29.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued a statement following passage of H. Res. 218 by the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa. The resolution recognizes the economic accomplishments of the U.S.-Israel economic partnership and supports enhanced collaboration across a variety of sectors within the science and technology sphere. The resolution has 72 bipartisan cosponsors and has now been sent to the full House Foreign Affairs Committee for further consideration. “The U.S.-Israel economic partnership has become one of the most exciting aspects of the bilateral relationship. Our joint research institutions are collaborating on life-changing medical breakthroughs, and our technology sectors are fueling ground-breaking innovations from Silicon Beach to Silicon Wadi. In March, I was proud to introduce this legislation to send strong, bipartisan support for deepening U.S.-Israel cooperation in promising fields like energy, water conservation, neurotechnology and cybersecurity. Today, I applaud my Foreign Affairs Subcommittee colleagues on passing this legislation and I ultimately look forward to its final passage on the House Floor.” ###
06.29.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of reports that President Trump is being presented with military options for North Korea. “Reports that the President is being presented with military options for North Korea are highly disturbing. Any US attack on North Korea without congressional authorization would be flat out unconstitutional. Such an attack could also lead to uncontrolled escalation, putting at risk over a hundred and fifty thousand Americans on the Korean peninsula and millions of South Koreans.” “North Korea is years away from striking the US homeland with an ICBM. The Just War Doctrine—and common sense—teaches us that military force should only be used as a last resort. We are nowhere near that stage. The Trump Administration needs to employ diplomacy and all other non-military tools of US power before going down the dark and bloody road of war with a country that has nuclear weapons." ###
06.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to the Director of the National Security Agency (NSA) Admiral Michael S. Rogers in the wake of the global “Petya” malware attacks. In his letter, Mr. Lieu asks the NSA to disclose any information the agency might have about how to stop the attacks and to work with technology companies to help them identify software vulnerabilities that hackers could exploit. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: “Security researchers have confirmed that Petya uses the suspected NSA exploit EternalBlue to infect systems, the same conduit through which the April WannaCry ransomware attacks were promulgated. Based on various reports, it appears these two global ransomware attacks likely occurred because the NSA’s hacking tools were released to the public by an organization called the ShadowBrokers.” “My first and urgent request is that if the NSA knows how to stop this global malware attack, or has information that can help stop the attack, then NSA should immediately disclose it. If the NSA has a kill switch for this new malware attack, the NSA should deploy it now.” “Given the ongoing threat, I urge NSA to continue actively working with companies like Microsoft to notify them of software vulnerabilities of which the Agency is aware. I also urge the NSA to disclose to Microsoft and other entities what it knows that can help prevent future attacks based on malware created by the NSA.” ###FULL TEXT OF MR. LIEU’S LETTER ###
06.27.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security John F. Kelly inquiring about the state of cybersecurity at vulnerable Trump properties. In May, the technology website Gizmodo chronicled the disturbing lack of security at Trump-owned hotels – including completely open Wi-Fi networks and Internet-connected printers that could easily be hacked to capture sensitive data. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: “As of this writing, President Trump has traveled to his Mar-a-Lago estate seven times since taking office. While the U.S. Secret Service is no doubt well acquainted with traditional security protocols involving visits to the site at this point in the President’s tenure, I am disturbed by a recent report that indicates security researchers affiliated with the website Gizmodo discovered weakly encrypted Wi-Fi networks at Mar-a-Lago, and completely open Wi-Fi networks at the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey. As computer science major, I can affirm that such lapses carry a host of implications for the President’s personal security and the country’s national security.” Mr. Lieu’s letter also asks the following questions of Secretary Kelly: 1. Is the Department of Homeland Security aware of the May 17th report in question? 2. Are Secret Service staff who are responsible for cybersecurity familiar with the April 2017 DHS report entitled, “Study on Mobile Security,” which details threats, vulnerabilities, and solutions to address identified weaknesses – and are they implementing DHS’ recommendations on best practices? 3. Is any entity, public or private, responsible for securing Wi-Fi networks at properties belonging to the President – both while he is physically there, and when he is away – and if so, what entity is responsible? 4. Although Secret Service routinely establishes portable and secure communications equipment, the President has reportedly held meetings in public spaces at his properties. Has Secret Service taken measures to ensure President Trump does not connect his personal mobile device to insecure networks while visiting his family’s properties? 5. What measures has DHS and/or U.S. Secret Service taken to address the increased presence of unsecured digital devices – for example, Internet of Things-connected devices – in close proximity to the President? ### FULL TEXT OF MR. LIEU’S LETTER ###
06.27.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement following an ominous statement from the White House about President Bashar Assad “paying a heavy price” if he launches another chemical weapons attack in the midst of Syria’s ongoing civil war. "Assad is a murderous dictator who has taken heinous actions against his own people. The Constitution of the United States, however, requires that Congress authorize war or the use of force before the President can attack another country. The recent White House statement, to the extent it is meant to threaten Assad with the use of force, has no legal basis. The White House admits that the US is in Syria to eliminate ISIS. But that is an entirely different rationale than attacking Assad and Syria, a country which has not attacked the US. Unless Congress authorizes Trump to attack Assad, any use of force other than in self-defense against the Assad regime would be unauthorized and unconstitutional." ###
06.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in strong opposition to the Senate Republican health care bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. Earlier today, the Congressional Budget Office released its analysis of Senate Republicans' current draft of Trumpcare. “Today’s CBO score confirms what we already know. Trumpcare is mean, mean, mean." "Trumpcare will shut millions of Americans out of affordable health care and devastate the lives of millions across this country. It would take health insurance coverage away from 22 million Americans, impose an age tax on older Americans, allow insurers to discriminate against those with pre-existing conditions, and impose lifetime and annual caps. Despite President Trump’s repeated promises to protect Medicaid, this disastrous bill imposes unprecedented cuts to Medicaid, which millions of Americans rely on including veterans, seniors, and children with disabilities. Trumpcare would also kill critical jobs in our health care industry, which makes up one sixth of our nation’s economy. Trumpcare is a billionaire’s tax cut disguised as a health care bill. My Democratic colleagues and I, along with thousands of patients, doctors, and health care providers, are fighting this horrific bill.” ###
06.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to House Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce requesting a hearing on the Trump Administration’s strategy in Afghanistan. Mr. Lieu’s letter comes on the heels of recent Trump Administration decisions to expand the U.S. military role in Afghanistan. In the letter Mr. Lieu writes: “After 16 years of war in Afghanistan, a surge to 100,000 U.S. troops, and hundreds of billions of dollars spent, it is clear that there is no military solution to the conflict… A decision on U.S. military operations in Afghanistan should stem from clearly-defined political objectives—not the other way around.” “Having served on active duty in the Air Force, I believe one of Congress’ most important duties is to scrutinize any plan to send American men and women into battle. Given our Committee’s role in overseeing both U.S. foreign policy and war powers, we should require the Administration to articulate its strategy for Afghanistan to our Committee and explain the political objectives our military operations are trying to support.” FULL TEXT OF MR. LIEU’S LETTER ###
06.21.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressmen Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Ted Lieu (D-CA), John Conyers (D-MI) and Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis expressing serious concerns regarding the future direction of the US military campaign in Afghanistan. Their letter criticizes the administration for the lengthy delay in finalizing its strategy for the conflict and expresses strong skepticism that the addition of several thousand US troops will be sufficient to achieve America’s objectives. After 16 years of fighting and the loss of thousands of American lives, the Members also urged Mattis to clearly state that America’s military commitment in Afghanistan will not be open-ended. “Secretary Mattis is right – we definitely aren’t winning in Afghanistan. And it’s completely unacceptable that 6 months into the new administration, President Trump and his advisors still can’t agree on a strategy,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego, a member of the House Armed Services Committee and a Marine Corps combat veteran. “Deploying a few thousand additional American troops might buy the struggling Afghan government more time, but it certainly won’t produce any lasting gains. I strongly object to sending more brave young Americans into harm’s way without a real plan, simply to kick the can down the road.” “A decision on increasing U.S. military operations in Afghanistan should originate from clearly-defined political objectives—not the other way around. It is deeply troubling that six months into the new Administration, the President has not articulated his strategy for the wars our men and women in uniform are actively fighting,” said Rep. Ted Lieu. “The American people deserve a clear cut plan for strategic success, not political bluster and inconsistent, inadequate leadership.” The text of the letter is below. A signed copy can be found here. Dear Secretary Mattis: We write to express our grave concerns regarding the future direction of the war in Afghanistan, a conflict which is the longest in the history of our nation. We agree with your assessment that “we are not winning” but with this in mind, it is disconcerting that nearly five months into the new Administration, a plan for how to achieve our national security objectives in Afghanistan remains unfinished. We are also troubled by what appears to be systemic miscommunication between the White House and the Department of Defense, particularly on the issue of delegated authority on troop levels. We understand that General Nicholson believes that he needs “a few thousand” more troops in Afghanistan. However, given the fact that US forces in Afghanistan numbered more than 60,000 just five years ago, we are unconvinced that the addition of 3,000 to 5,000 American troops will be sufficient to quickly or sustainably roll back the advances achieved by the Taliban. Our skepticism is reflected in the recent testimony of Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats who stated that, “[t]he intelligence community assesses that the political and security situation in Afghanistan will almost certainly deteriorate through 2018, even with a modest increase in military assistance by the United States and its partners.” You have described victory in this conflict as a scenario in which, “the Afghan government, with international help, will be able to handle the violence and drive it down to a level that local security forces can handle it.” Given the high levels of bloodshed in the country and the fragile gains achieved despite a robust American military commitment since 2001, we strongly believe that military force alone will be insufficient to achieve this goal. The augmentation of our forces that the Administration is contemplating may yield limited, short-term gains, but without a long-term strategy and a sustained diplomatic effort, additional troops are unlikely to enable the struggling Afghan state to provide lasting security and effective governance to its people. For this reason, in your upcoming strategy, we strongly urge you to recommit the United States to seeking a political solution to the war in Afghanistan. A negotiated settlement remains the best and only means of ending this conflict. Moreover, your plan must also convey the clear message that America’s commitment is not open-ended. After 16 years of fighting and the loss of thousands of American lives, the United States must be unambiguous about its intention to eventually draw down American forces. Thank you for your service to the nation. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
06.20.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, on World Refugee Day, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R I Florida) introduced a House Resolution reaffirming the United States’ commitment to the protection of refugees and displaced persons. Rep. Lieu introduced a similar bill in the 114th Congress. Upon introduction of the resolution Reps. Lieu and Ros-Lehtinen issued the following statements: “Right now, the world faces the worst displacement crisis in history,” said Representative Lieu. “As refugees flee violence and persecution in search of peace and freedom, they are faced with some of the most difficult conditions imaginable. Children are set back a generation without access to education, families are stuck in waiting, and countries that neighbor conflict zones struggle to accommodate for the sudden influx of people. As an immigrant and a Veteran, I know that protecting the most vulnerable people among us via the U.S. resettlement program and humanitarian assistance abroad promotes our core values and protects our national security interests. It is critical that we answer the growing protectionist attitudes throughout the world with a clear, bipartisan message that we stand #WithRefugees, regardless of their national origin or religion. On this World Refugee Day, I am proud to introduce legislation with Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen and over 60 of our House colleagues to reaffirm U.S. leadership in promoting the health, safety and well-being of refugees.” “World Refugee Day is an opportunity to remind ourselves of our nation’s tradition of welcoming the oppressed from all corners of the globe,” said Representative Ros-Lehtinen. “As a refugee who fled communist Cuba, I’m proud to introduce this resolution with my colleague, Ted, stressing the importance helping those fleeing conflict, strife, and repression. I continue to support the important work of U.S. agencies responsible for helping displaced refugees. This bipartisan resolution recognizes the importance of welcoming those who want to contribute and build a better life, especially when they are fleeing often unspeakable horrors.” THIS BILL IS SUPPORTED BY: Alianza Americas, Alternative Chance, America's Voice Education Fund, American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, American Jewish Committee (AJC), Amnesty International USA, Arkansas United Community Coalition, Asian Americans Advancing Justice – AAJC, Bellevue/NYU Program for Survivors of Torture, Border Action Network, Center for Biological Diversity, Center for Gender & Refugee Studies, Center for Victims of Torture, Central American Resource Center, Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) Refugee & Immigration Ministries, Christian Community Development Association, Church World Service (CWS), Coalition of Immokalee Workers, Community Refugee & Immigration Services (CRIS), Exodus Refugee Immigration Inc., Fair Immigration Reform Movement, Faith Voices Arkansas, Florida Council of Churches, Franciscan Action Network, Freedom Network USA, Global Progressive Hub, HIAS, Human Rights Initiative of North Texas, Humane Borders, Interfaith Worker Justice, International Refugee Assistance Project, International Rescue Committee, Jacob Blaustein Institute for the Advancement of Human Rights, Jesuit Refugee Service/USA, Just Foreign Policy, Kentucky Refugee Ministries, Latin America Working Group (LAWG), Leadership Conference of Women Religious, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, Multifaith Alliance for Syrian Refugees, National Council of Jewish Women, National Immigration Forum, National Immigration Law Center, National Partnership for New Americans, NYU Center for Health and Human Rights, Office of Peace, Justice, and Ecological Integrity, Sisters of Charity of Saint Elizabeth, Oxfam America, Peace Action, Presbyterian Church (USA), RefugePoint, Save the Children USA, School Sisters of Notre Dame JPIC Dept, Service Employees International Union, Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education Network (SIREN), Sisters of Mercy of the Americas - Institute Justice Team, Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC), STAND: The Student-Led Movement to End Mass Atrocities, Syrian Community Network, Tacoma Community House, The Asylum Seeker Assistance Project, The Episcopal Church, U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants (USCRI), Win Without War, Women's Refugee Commission, National Religious Campaign Against Torture, Office of Social Justice, Christian Reformed Church in North America, Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon, North Carolina Council of Churches, and Tahirih Justice Center. THE FULL TEXT OF THE BILL CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
06.16.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement regarding the Ribbon Cutting for the newly open Building 209 on the West Los Angeles VA Campus, the first permanent supportive housing development created on the West Los Angeles VA Campus. “This ribbon cutting represents a step forward in restoring the West LA VA property to the Old Soldiers’ Home it was always intended to be. I join with all Veterans, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and the communities of West Los Angeles in “welcoming home” 54 Veterans who have been experiencing homelessness into their new home at Building 209 on the West Los Angeles VA Campus. These 54 Veterans will now have a permanent home and wraparound case management services for the first time in many years. This is an historic day as Building 209 provides the first of up to 1,200 permanent supportive housing units for homeless Veterans called for in the West LA VA Draft Master Plan. I am pleased that these units are being created on the West Los Angeles VA Campus as a result of legislation I authored with Senator Feinstein last year. Today’s success is a collective victory for countless individuals and groups. I would like to commend the VA for creating beautiful homes for the Veterans. I would like to recognize Step Up on Second for taking over the first lease to manage this facility, and I would like to thank the community for helping the residents move in by providing many appliances and furnishings for their new homes. No Veterans who fought for our country should ever need to fight for a roof over their heads. Today’s ribbon cutting helps us move forward on our unwavering mission to honor the debt we owe our nation’s Veterans.” ###
06.15.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement as he joined nearly 200 Members of Congress in filing a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against President Trump. President Trump’s ongoing failure to obtain the consent of Congress before accepting payments, benefits, or gifts from foreign states violates one of the Constitution’s critical anti-corruption provisions, the Foreign Emoluments Clause. “Despite running for office on a promise to ‘drain the swamp,’ President Trump has become a key part of it. For 145 days, his presidency has been shrouded in a cloud of illegitimacy. He violated the Constitution the moment he took the oath, because he refused – and continues to refuse – to divest his global business interests.” “While American families work hard and play by the rules, Donald Trump sits back and enriches himself off the Office of the President. From his sprawling network of hotels – where foreign dignitaries have effectively admitted they stay to gain influence – to leasing his New York office space to a massive Chinese-owned bank, our President has put himself ahead of the American people at every turn. It’s not just immoral – it’s flat out illegal.” “That is why I am proud to join nearly 200 of my Congressional colleagues in this historic lawsuit against President Trump for violating the Foreign Emoluments Clause of the Constitution. Our Founding Fathers were clear: Congress must consent before federal officials accept payments from a foreign government. This suit is critical to ensuring the President of the United States is beholden to the American people, and the American people only.” ###
06.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congresswoman Dina Titus (D | Nevada) issued the following statements following the Los Angeles VA’s announcement to discontinue a two-decades-old canine research program. In experiments at the Los Angeles VA facility, Dobermans were bred to suffer from narcolepsy, and subsequently injected with methamphetamines daily for six months, killed, and dissected. On May 8, 2017, Reps. Lieu and Titus, along with seven other House Members, sent a letter to the VA Inspector General, Michael J. Missal, raising concerns about the lack of transparency and accountability in the controversial dog experiments. On June 9, the VA announced it was terminating the research program. Congressman Ted W. Lieu “I am pleased that the VA is taking this important step for our nation’s veterans, American taxpayers, and our canine friends. This much needed reform will put the Los Angeles VA back on track to taking care of our veterans without wasting resources to conduct unnecessary and inhumane experiments on dogs.” Congresswoman Dina Titus "This disturbing research went on for 20 years too long. But in a matter of weeks we were able to help shut it down. I commend the VA, my colleagues, and the devoted advocates who worked to do the right thing. This is good news for animals and veterans."​ Anthony Bellotti, President and Founder of White Coat Waste Project “We’re proud of this victory for taxpayers, veterans and man’s best friend and incredibly grateful to Reps. Lieu and Titus for their outstanding leadership that made it possible. This long overdue reform will help the Los Angeles V.A. get back to the business of caring for and housing our nation’s veterans, instead of wasting time, tax money and facilities operating a nightmarish dog laboratory and breeding colony. With Los Angeles ending its painful dog experiments, only three V.A. facilities are still forcing taxpayers to foot the bill for heart attack experiments on puppies and other harmful studies and White Coat Waste Project and it’s 400,000 liberty-loving and animal-loving supporters will continue to hold V.A. accountable until they stop. One down, three to go.” ###
06.06.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Scott Taylor (R | Virginia) introduced H.R. 2774, the Hack the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Act. The bill would establish a bug bounty pilot program – modeled off of similar programs at the Department of Defense and major tech companies – in order to strengthen cyber defenses at DHS by utilizing “white-hat” or ethical hackers to help identify unique and undiscovered vulnerabilities in the DHS networks and data systems. Companion legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Maggie Hassan (D | New Hampshire), Rob Portman (R | Ohio), Claire McCaskill (D | Missouri), and Kamala Harris (D | California). "There is perhaps no better way to find weaknesses in our cyber armor than to enlist the help of America’s top security researchers," said Rep. Ted Lieu. "As a Computer Science major, I recognize that bug bounty programs have proven critical to enhancing cybersecurity at the Pentagon and in the private sector, and it is past time we bring this tool to bear at the agency tasked with protecting our homeland security." “Today, in the 21st century, conflicts are waged behind the scenes on the digital frontier,” said Rep. Scott Taylor. “It is vital that America becomes the global leader in combatting cyber threats. We must do everything in our power to strengthen our cybersecurity by identifying and patching vulnerabilities in our networks to avoid jeopardizing our national security.” THE TEXT OF THE HACK DHS ACT CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
06.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) co-led a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn calling for immediate revocation of Jared Kushner’s security clearance until the FBI concludes its investigation into Trump-Russia ties. In April 2017, Congressman Lieu was just one of four Democrats who signed onto a letter to OPM Director Charles Phalen and then FBI Director James Comey raising concerns regarding Jared Kushner’s failure to disclose his meetings with foreign officials. “Last week, we learned that Jared Kushner lied, yet again, about his contacts with Russian officials on his security clearance form. Not only did he fail to disclose meetings with known Russian intelligence recruiter Sergey Kislyak and Russian banker Sergey Gorkov, but he omitted as many as two additional conversations with the Russians during and after the campaign. This would be disturbing enough without considering Kushner’s purported goal – to establish a secret back-channel with the Kremlin using Russian communications equipment.” “Now we know that he is likely the subject of the FBI’s counterintelligence probe. If this were anyone but the President’s son-in-law, he would be out on the street – or in jail. Simply put, Jared Kushner is compromised and must resign immediately. I am proud to co-lead this letter with Representative Don Beyer calling for the immediate suspension of Mr. Kushner’s security clearance. This is well beyond nepotism – this is about the security of our nation.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
05.31.2017	Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding reports that President Trump will withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement. “Though not surprised, I am deeply disappointed by reports of Trump’s intent to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement. Such a withdrawal would be misguided, ill-informed, and backward-looking. We should not be making America dirtier again. Abandoning the Agreement would also result in the United States ceding its leadership in addressing carbon and methane pollution at a time when we cannot afford inaction. Now more than ever we need states like California as well as our allies overseas to fill Trump’s void and continue fighting for a greener planet.” “P.S. Coal is not coming back." ###
05.30.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after joining the bipartisan Congressional Sharing Economy Caucus. “A key part of our success as a nation is our ability to adapt to a changing world. The emergence of the sharing economy has rewritten the way we learn, conduct business, and play. The simple idea that people might be more willing to share parts of their lives than we previously thought has transformed the future of work. At the same time, there are important issues like regulation and workers’ rights that Congress must play a key role in tackling. I am proud to join my colleagues in this effort.” ###
05.29.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in observance of Memorial Day. “Today we honor Americans who gave their lives in service to our nation. I am thankful for the opportunity to participate in several Memorial Day events throughout my district, including those at the Los Angeles National Cemetery and in Redondo Beach." "While we pause to remember the memory of our service members who made the ultimate sacrifice, let us also renew our commitment to take care of the Veterans who served alongside them. Earlier this week I introduced the Legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act, which would authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs to enter agreements with third parties to provide pro bono legal services to homeless and at-risk Veterans across the country." "America is great because every generation we have women and men willing to give their lives to defend the Constitution. Today we honor them.” Keynote speaker Congressman Ted Lieu addresses the crowd at this year's Memorial Day event at the Los Angeles National Cemetery###
05.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement to commemorate the start of Ramandan. “Warmest wishes to all those observing the month of Ramadan at home and abroad. During this spiritual time, we recognize our nation’s rich and diverse religious communities and renew our commitment to defending religious freedoms for all. To our Muslim friends and family: Ramadan Mubarak.” ###
05.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in recognition of Santa Monica College receiving the Department of Education’s Upward Bound Program grant totaling $257,500. The grant will be used to increase opportunities for students to earn post-secondary credits in high school. “I am delighted to hear of the Upward Bound grant awarded to Santa Monica College by the Department of Education. I commend the Department of Education for their commitment to creating opportunities that will motivate our future leaders. It is because of grants like this that educational institutions are able to devise programs that can improve academic outcomes for students locally and throughout the nation.” About the Upward Bound Program: The program supports projects designed to provide students with the skills necessary to succeed in a postsecondary education program. It is directed toward creating opportunities that will assist groups that are traditionally underrepresented in postsecondary education (i.e. low-income students, students with disabilities, etc.). The program has proven that by allowing students to accumulate postsecondary credits while in a secondary education program, students will be more likely to enter and complete a postsecondary education. ###
05.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Congressional Progressive Caucus Co-Chairs Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) and Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI), Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN), Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA), Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA), Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Rep. Jared Huffman (D-CA), Rep. Ro Khanna (D-CA), Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO), Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN), and Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH) made the following statements today after they unveiled a House Resolution outlining 10 principles that should be included in any infrastructure plan considered by Congress. They also unveiled the CPC’s bold infrastructure proposal, entitled a 21st Century New Deal for Jobs. “America’s infrastructure is desperately in need of repair – this year, the American Society of Civil Engineers estimated $4.6 trillion in infrastructure needs, of which more than $2 trillion did not have estimated funding,” said Rep. Lieu. “The American people deserve to have a serious conversation about how to address these needs. To fund infrastructure projects, President Trump's relatively small and incoherent plan would use irresponsible tax gimmicks that benefit Wall Street at the expense of taxpayers. My colleagues and I know that Americans cannot afford to settle for this scam. Instead, we have introduced the 21st Century New Deal for Jobs to ensure that Congress boldly addresses our infrastructure needs and supports a plan that creates millions of jobs without sacrificing protections for workers and the environment.” “Democrats are leading the way for millions of jobs. Donald Trump wants to sell off our roads to foreign governments and give taxpayer dollars to Wall Street billionaires, and he calls that job creation?” Rep. Pocan said. “Maybe that will create jobs in countries like Russia, but not for hard-working Americans. Democrats are determined to take this fight to the people. Our country is in dire need of a bold vision to repair our crumbling roads and bridges, clean our air and water, restore our children's unsafe school buildings, and connect our communities to each other with high-speed rail and internet. While President Trump and the Republicans are busy concocting a trillion-dollar Wall Street giveaway under the guise of infrastructure, Democrats believe big corporations should pay their fair share to support dignified employment and build a more sustainable and vibrant economy for everyone.” "The Congressional Progressive Caucus’ 21st Century New Deal for Jobs is the only comprehensive infrastructure plan that places workers before corporate interest,” Rep. Grijalva said. “It provides significant investments to address the current needs of our country, such as modernizing our outdated schools and replacing our lead-ridden pipelines that have destroyed the public health of children in Flint. The plan creates millions of forward-thinking jobs and ensures nobody is forced to compromise their living standards or working conditions. It sets fundamental principles of social, racial, and environmental justice so our infrastructure planning workforce reflects the needs of our diverse communities. More importantly, it commits public money for the public good. I am proud to support the 21st Century New Deal for Jobs plan to meet the real economic and infrastructure needs of our country." “Rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure is about so much more than construction projects,” Rep. Ellison said. “It’s about replacing the pipes in Flint that poisoned an entire community, making our roads and bridges safer, and rebuilding crumbling schools. As Democrats, we believe we must improve the lives of millions of hardworking families, putting millions of Americans to work at good jobs, and make our tax system fairer by making the wealthiest pay their fair share. The Republican infrastructure plan is nothing more than another tax break for millionaires and billionaires.” “We need to invest in our infrastructure so that communities – especially communities of color – are empowered for a 21st century economy,” Rep. Lee said. “The CPC infrastructure plan lays out bold, long overdue investments into the American people. Our plan puts people to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, expanding the green economy, and bringing broadband to communities across the country.” “Donald Trump’s cruel budget eliminates billions in funds that invest in our transportation, air quality and safety. In stark contrast to Trump’s misguided values, we at the Congressional Progressive Caucus have prioritized infrastructure to ensure success for our communities. The 21st Century New Deal for Jobs plan will modernize and prepare workers for our changing economy,” said Rep. Jayapal. “Day in and day out, our children, families and communities rely on safe school buildings, up-to-date transportation, secure roads and bridges and a steady paycheck. By upgrading our infrastructure, creating jobs and training workers for careers in clean energy, water and transportation, this New Deal will help our nation thrive.” “Too many communities, especially in rural America, are being left behind because of crumbling infrastructure,” said Rep. Huffman. “We shouldn’t be satisfied by the status quo. In my district alone, we ought to be overhauling roads that are literally falling into the ocean, repairing schools closed due to mold infestation, and connecting the communities that are isolated for lack of high quality broadband. The 21st Century New Deal for Jobs plan will ensure that our country has the infrastructure to compete in the global economy, enable children - and all Americans - to thrive, while also taking smart steps to rebuild our communities.” “Expanding vital internet service supports the progressive vision of 21stCentury America,” Rep. Khanna said. “The CPC’s plan will expand economic opportunity by bringing high-speed Internet access to all Americans -- including new access for rural communities and incentives to increase adoption in low-income communities. By doing so, we will help create millions of new jobs and start-ups in rural America, in tribal areas, and in urban centers that have yet to see the gains of the technology revolution.” “Now is the time for a direct and bold federal investment in jobs and infrastructure, addressing everything from roads and bridges to broadband, public rail, to our crumbling schools, and energy grid,” Rep. Polis said. “We need an infrastructure plan that doesn’t aim to provide giveaways to special interests, but helps all Americans and Coloradans and creates millions of jobs across our country. In my district we have to address problem-areas that range from I-25 between Denver and Fort Collins, I-70 which has millions of people traveling to and from the mountains, or the North West line commuter rail that is 35 years behind schedule. A wise infrastructure plan will alleviate traffic, invest in our schools, increase energy efficiency, encourage commerce, and create millions of good-paying jobs.” “The principles in this resolution will not only rebuild our crumbling roads, bridges, ports, airports, schools, water systems and other vital infrastructure projects,” said Rep. Lacy Clay. “They will also lift up hard-working families in St. Louis and across the nation. The long-overdue investment that we make in public infrastructure will generate millions of good American jobs and it pay huge dividends for many generations to come. I’m proud to cosponsor this important set of principles that will move our nation forward.” "America's infrastructure is the cornerstone of our national security and the key to job creation, business development, comfortable lives and quality communities,” Rep. Nolan said. “When we invest in our roads, bridges, airports, waterways, ports, pipelines, rail lines and broadband systems, we invest in ourselves and pay prosperity forward to future generations. So we can't be shortsighted. We need to think big, plan ahead, and make rebuilding our infrastructure the priority it needs to be." Too much of our infrastructure is in fair or critical condition, even though there are hard-working people across New Hampshire and our nation ready to do the job,” Rep. Shea-Porter said. “It’s time for Congress to work together on a comprehensive infrastructure plan that follows these basic principles to address our urgent needs, invest in our future, and create good jobs.” ### The Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) is the largest caucus within the House Democratic Caucus, with over 70 members standing up for progressive ideals in Washington and throughout the country. Since 1991, the CPC has advocated for progressive policies that prioritize working Americans over corporate interests, fight economic and social inequality, and promote civil liberties. The CPC champions progressive policy solutions like comprehensive immigration reform, a $15 national minimum wage, fair trade, gun violence reform, debt-free college, and making the federal government a Model Employer.
05.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the US 4TH Circuit Court of Appeals decided not to reinstate President Trump’s revised travel ban. “As an immigrant, I applaud the decision by the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals to uphold the block of President Trump’s Muslim ban. The 4th Circuit is spot on when it writes that Trump’s ban ‘drips with intolerance, animus and discrimination.’ As a Veteran, I also stress the fact that Trump’s bigoted ban – couched within a misguided argument about our national security – does nothing to make America safer. In fact, Trump’s Muslim ban hands our real enemies like ISIL and al-Qaeda a powerful recruiting tool and undermines our relationships with partners abroad. There is nothing more un-American than undermining our fundamental value of accepting those who are fleeing tyranny, those who want to start a better life in the United States. Thanks to the 4th Circuit, some of America’s fundamental values are safe from Trump’s desire to gut them.” ###
05.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congressman Ted S. Yoho (R I Florida) sent a letter to House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce calling for a full committee hearing to review the Trump Administration’s proposed sale of precision-guided munition kits to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The letter notes that the Trump Administration has yet to provide information related to the Royal Saudi Air Force’s capabilities which was requested by 31 Members of Congress, including members of the Committee, in a letter on April 6, 2017. The Obama Administration had suspended the sale in question in December 2016 following repeated airstrikes on civilian targets. EXCERPTS FROM THE LETTER: “As you know, the Obama Administration made the decision in December 2016 to halt a planned sale of PGMs due to concerns over widespread civilian casualties in Yemen and significant deficiencies in RSAF’s targeting capabilities…. In March 2017, the Department of State reversed this policy without providing any justification for what had changed in its assessment.” “It is in our national security interest – as well as that of our Saudi partners – to ensure that the RSAF has the ability to avoid civilian casualties before the U.S. sells them any additional air-to-ground munitions.” “We therefore urge the Committee to call a hearing with the Administration, in a closed session if necessary, to obtain critical information pertinent to this PGM sale prior to the 30-day statutory window closing on June 20.” ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND: Today, Congressman Lieu also introduced a joint resolution to place conditions on all air-to-ground munitions sales to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The three conditions relate to avoiding civilian casualties, facilitating humanitarian aid, and targeting U.S.-designated terrorist organizations such as AQAP and ISIS. FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
05.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) introduced the Legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act of 2017. The legislation would authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs to enter agreements with third parties to provide pro bono legal services to homeless and at-risk Veterans across the country. A 2016 study by the VA found that at least five out of the top 10 problems leading to homelessness among veterans cannot be solved without legal help. “The research clearly shows that legal services are as necessary to addressing the Veteran homelessness epidemic as physical housing, but the VA does not have the flexibility it needs to fund those services,” Congressman Ted Lieu said. “We must do more to fuel the partnerships between civil legal-aid and community health and housing organizations that are doing cutting-edge work to address Veteran homelessness in Los Angeles and across the nation. The Legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act is an important step to ensure that no Veteran who fought for our country ever needs to fight for a roof over their head or food in their stomach.” ENDORSED BY: The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans OUTSIDE PRAISE: "Veterans have defended our constitutional rights. We need to ensure that the favor is returned when veterans are facing legal challenges,” said Charles E. Schmidt, National Commander of the American Legion. “The American Legion believes that homeless and at-risk veterans deserve strong representation when dealing with eviction or routine legal matters. We hope that Congress will support Representative Lieu's legislation. The American Legion will always be an advocate for veterans in need.” “The Veterans of Foreign Wars is proud to support this common sense solution that will assist homeless veterans with their legal hurdles” said Carlos Fuentes, National Legislative Affairs Director of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. “We are happy to see Representative Lieu taking issues like this head on, and we look forward to hearing about the successful outcomes this bill will bring”. “DAV is pleased to support Representative Lieu’s Provide Legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act of 2017, which will afford legal services to homeless and at-risk veterans,” said Garry Augustine, Executive Director of Disabled American Veterans. “Too often, veterans struggling with homelessness fall into a pattern which makes them unable to find stability and establish employment and a permanent residence. These critical legal services, made available through partnerships with the Department of Veterans Affairs, will address this largely unmet need and help veterans overcome barriers and break free from the cycle of homelessness. "Civil legal problems — from threatened evictions to other-than-honorable discharges from the military that prevent a veteran from accessing critical income benefits — are often the greatest obstacles to a veteran’s health, housing, stability, and productivity," said Ellen Lawton, co-director of the National Center for Medical-Legal Partnership at The George Washington University. "But while the VA has long realized the impact of legal problems on housing and health, it is restricted from funding critical legal services. The Legal Services for Homeless Vets bill opens the door for tens of thousands of our nation's veterans to get the care they need to become stably housed." "For a veteran, legal help can mean the difference between having a home and living on the street,” said Martha Bergmark, Executive Director of Voices for Civil Justice. “Congressman Lieu's bill will enable the VA to forge stronger partnerships with civil legal aid programs in order to provide vital assistance to veterans across the country.” ###
05.23.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after joining the bipartisan Congressional Digital Trade Caucus as a founding Member. “As more of life takes place behind a computer screen, Congress has a key role to play in answering tough questions about how traditional concepts governing commerce apply to the digital space. E-commerce has transformed the way we think about business, growth, and international trade. This forward-looking caucus focuses on key issues like cross-border data flows, encryption, and protecting an open internet. I greatly look forward to working with each caucus member and co-chairs Reps. DelBene and Paulsen as we strive to ensure that America continues to lead in the 21st century global economy.” ###
05.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after introducing the Stop Waste And Misuse by the President Act of 2017, otherwise known as the SWAMP Act. This legislation compels President Trump and the First Family to reimburse the American taxpayer for federal funds spent at commercial properties that he or his family own or have a financial interest in. “President Trump ran for office to ‘drain the swamp.’ Since January, he has traveled to his Mar-a-Lago resort seven times, costing the U.S. taxpayer more than $25 million dollars. Every time he travels to a commercial property in which he has a financial interest, he forces the American people to deposit funds directly into his pockets. Most of us don’t know what it’s like to own or even visit multi-million dollar commercial properties – but every American is paying for them. Meanwhile, President Trump wants to cut programs like the Interagency Council on Homelessness, which could meet its annual funding requirements if Trump passed on just one Mar-a-Lago trip.” “In addition, the President is spreading local law enforcement thin, depriving towns of revenue by cutting off traffic routes near his resorts, and housing security and staff at his own properties – all on the taxpayer’s dime. The Office of the President should never be used for personal gain or enrichment. That is why I am proud to introduce the SWAMP Act, which would ensure the President reimburses the Treasury Department for costs pertaining to trips to his own properties. Congress has a strong role to play in protecting the American people from fraud and abuse and this bill is a key part of that effort.” FULL TEXT OF H.R. 2414 CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
05.18.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement given the breaking news that US forces carried out airstrikes on pro-government forces in Syria. “For the second time in as many months, the US military has conducted airstrikes against pro-Assad forces in Syria. The Trump Administration does not have congressional authorization to carry out military strikes against the Assad regime. Furthermore, the situation that led to today’s strike is precisely why I warned against getting further entangled in the Syrian civil war without a clear strategy. President Trump needs to explain his plan for Syria to Congress and the American people.” ###
05.18.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House passed the Modernizing Government Technology Act, legislation Mr. Lieu cosponsored that the Obama White House previously outlined as one component of the Cybersecurity National Action Plan. “I am pleased to join my colleagues in passing the Modernizing Government Technology Act (MGT), which establishes a working capital fund to make badly needed upgrades to the federal government’s IT systems. This innovative and self-sustaining investment fund is critical to improving the efficiency of our government and the security of our nation. Ultimately, it will allow experts to focus on high-risk systems while developing longer-term plans to help agencies meet future demands. MGT’s passage shows that Congress is getting serious about transitioning to innovative platforms and investing in cybersecurity. I look forward to seeing major improvements in our infrastructure as a result of this bipartisan legislation.” ###
05.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Representative Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has issued the following statement in light of the news that the Justice Department is appointing former FBI Director Robert Mueller as a special counsel to investigate Russia’s involvement in the 2016 presidential election. Last week, Mr. Lieu - along with Representatives Kathleen Rice and Stacey Plaskett - sent a letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein formally requesting the appointment of a Special Counsel. The Representatives – all former prosecutors – believed Title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations compelled Mr. Rosenstein to appoint a Special Counsel. "Today is a good day for American Democracy. Thank you Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein for following the law." ###
05.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Following one of the largest global cyberattacks in history, U.S. Senators Brian Schatz (D-Hawai‘i), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), and Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and U.S. Representatives Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) and Blake Farenthold (R-Texas) introduced the Protecting our Ability To Counter Hacking (PATCH) Act, bipartisan legislation that adds transparency and accountability to the U.S. government process for retaining or disclosing vulnerabilities in technology products, services, applications, and systems. “Striking the balance between U.S. national security and general cybersecurity is critical, but it’s not easy,” said Senator Schatz, lead Democrat on the Senate Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation, and the Internet. “This bill strikes that balance. Codifying a framework for the relevant agencies to review and disclose vulnerabilities will improve cybersecurity and transparency to the benefit of the public while also ensuring that the federal government has the tools it needs to protect national security.” “As we’ve seen in recent days with the worldwide ransomware attack, the continued threat of cyberattacks means that we need to combine public and private efforts to maintain the security of America’s networks and information. It is essential that government agencies make zero-day vulnerabilities known to vendors whenever possible, and the PATCH Act requires the government to swiftly balance the need to disclose vulnerabilities with other national security interests while increasing transparency and accountability to maintain public trust in the process,” said Senator Johnson, Chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and a senior member of the Senate Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation, and the Internet. “The latest global ransomware attack revealed the importance of locating and patching vulnerabilities before malicious actors can attack our most critical systems,” said Senator Gardner. “This legislation ensures the American public has greater transparency into how vulnerabilities and threats are shared between federal government actors, intelligence organizations, and the private sector. We must be vigilant to avoid another massive cyberattack and that requires strengthening the process to help detect and share technological vulnerabilities.” “As a computer science major, it is clear to me that one nation's cyber weapon is everyone else's vulnerability, from governments to businesses to consumers,” said Representative Lieu, a member of the House Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet. “Last week’s global WannaCry ransomware attack—based on NSA malware—was a stark reminder that hoarding technological vulnerabilities to develop offensive weapons comes with significant risks to our own economy and national security. It also highlighted that our government’s current decision-making process for when to hoard software flaws and when to disclose them is opaque and unaccountable to the American people. When our medical records, bank accounts and communications are on the line, we must ensure that we are adequately weighing the risks of withholding each vulnerability from the company that can patch it. I am proud to introduce the bipartisan PATCH Act to bring much-needed oversight, transparency and accountability to the Vulnerabilities Equities Process as a critical step to restoring trust and improving our cybersecurity.” “Cyberattacks around the world have increasingly shown the vulnerabilities of both public and private sector computer systems,” said Representative Farenthold. “The government needs to be more aggressive in helping to secure cyber vulnerabilities for everyone’s safety and security.” The U.S. government is one of the many stakeholders researching and finding “zero-day vulnerabilities,” which are flaws in technology that are unknown to the vendor. Before they are patched, these vulnerabilities are susceptible to hacking and make the technologies that we rely on every day less secure. Usually the U.S. government discloses these vulnerabilities to the vendor so they can be fixed, but sometimes it retains them and exploits them for national security purposes. The PATCH Act codifies current government practices to review vulnerabilities and designates the Department of Homeland Security as the chair of the interagency review board. The Board will ensure a consistent policy for how the government evaluates vulnerability for disclosure and retention. The bill will also create new oversight mechanisms to improve transparency and accountability, while enhancing public trust in the process. The PATCH Act has broad support from cybersecurity experts and advocacy organizations, including the Coalition for Cybersecurity Policy and Law, McAfee, Mozilla, the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, New America's Open Technology Institute, and the Center for Democracy and Technology. “The events of the past week underscore the importance of transparency and oversight in government handling of vulnerabilities. Governments must improve on the goal of getting vulnerability information to organizations capable of acting to protect security in a timely manner upon discovery. We support the goals of the PATCH Act and we look forward to working with Chairman Johnson and Senator Schatz and as it moves forward in Committee,” the Coalition for Cybersecurity Policy and Law said in a statement. “Every year the federal government discovers countless vulnerabilities in software and hardware products used by millions of American businesses and individuals. But instead of responsibly disclosing this information to the developers who can fix these flaws, the U.S. government will sometimes horde these vulnerabilities to use against others. Without this information, these systems are left vulnerable to hackers who can wage cyberattacks against America and its allies. The PATCH Act is a critical step forward to reform this broken process. The legislation will bring needed transparency to the vulnerabilities equities process (VEP) and balance national security interests with economic interests. Moreover, disclosing vulnerabilities to companies in a timely manner will allow them to develop patches sooner and help keep the nation secure,” said Daniel Castro, Vice President of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation. “All governments have to balance national security interests with economic interests. In some cases governments have an interest in using certain vulnerabilities for intelligence gathering purposes to protect their national interests in ways that make it impossible to disclose. That said, we support the effort by Senators Schatz and Johnson to establish an equitable vulnerabilities review process. This will help facilitate the disclosure of previously unknown vulnerabilities. An improved process will help balance security and economic interests while also enhancing trust and transparency,” said Thomas Gann, Chief Public Policy Officer at McAfee. “The PATCH Act includes key reforms to the VEP that Mozilla has called for, including codification in law to increase transparency and accountability. We look forward to working with Sen. Brian Schatz and Sen. Ron Johnson on the PATCH Act,” said Denelle Dixon, the Chief Legal and Business Officer for Mozilla.To read the full text of H.R. 2481, click here. To download a one-pager on H.R. 2481, click here. ###
05.16.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Representative Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has issued the following statement in light of the news that President Trump apparently revealed classified information derived from Israel in his meeting last week with Russian officials at the White House. “We have heard a number of times from the White House that President Trump’s conversation with Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov was ‘wholly appropriate.’ However, nothing could be further from the truth. In his conversation with Lavrov, Trump apparently divulged to the Russians highly classified information collected by Israel. This is utterly disturbing on many levels.” “Trump’s reckless actions threaten to damage our relationship with Israel. It is mindboggling that the President would jeopardize that relationship – and the lives of US and Israeli citizens in the process – to mindlessly boast and misguidedly placate the Russians, while throwing Israel under the bus in the process.” “Given Russia’s close relationship with Iran, it’s even more concerning this kind of sensitive intelligence could make it into the hands of Iran and its proxy Hezbollah, which seek the destruction of Israel. Other US allies are now dissuaded from sharing sensitive information with the US because they can't trust the Administration. Trump’s dangerous actions call into question his fitness as President and must be investigated by Congress to the fullest.” ###
05.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Representative Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has issued the following statement on today’s global malware attack: "The massive malware attack that hit multiple countries has caused chaos and has shut down vital institutions such as hospitals. It is deeply disturbing the National Security Agency likely wrote the original malware. I have been working on legislation with industry stakeholders and partners in the Senate to address this problem.” “Our legislation will reform the Vulnerabilities Equities Process, which is how the federal government decides whether to disclose a software vulnerability to the software manufacturer, or instead to keep it secret. Currently the Vulnerabilities Equities Process is not transparent and few people understand how the government makes these critical decisions. Today’s worldwide ransomware attack shows what can happen when the NSA or CIA write malware instead of disclosing the vulnerability to the software manufacturer.” “I am also working on the issue of how to better ensure that once a software vulnerability is disclosed, it gets patched. As a computer science major, it is clear to me that many of our public and private institutions are woefully unprepared for cyberattacks. We live in a brave new world. The time is now for Congress to seriously address cybersecurity issues." ###
05.10.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Representative Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County), along with Representatives Kathleen Rice and Stacey Plaskett, sent a letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein formally requesting the appointment of a Special Counsel to investigate possible collusion between the Trump Campaign and Russia. The Representatives – all former prosecutors – believe Title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations compels Mr. Rosenstein to appoint a Special Counsel. As a result, the Representatives’ letter stresses that Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein must follow the procedures set forth in Part 600.1 of Title 28, which would cause him to appoint a Special Counsel immediately. In the letter, the Representatives write: “As former prosecutors, we know that governmental investigations must be independent and free of conflicts of interest. Because you serve at the pleasure of the President, it is our belief that you have a conflict of interest and cannot exercise true independence into an investigation that may implicate the President. Moreover, your significant role in the firing of FBI Director James Comey—who was leading a counterintelligence investigation into possible collusion between Trump associates and Russia—has placed you into direct conflict with the FBI’s counterintelligence investigation.” “The Attorney General, or in cases in which the Attorney General is recused, the Acting Attorney General, will appoint a Special Counsel when he or she determines that criminal investigation of a person or matter is warranted and—(a) That investigation or prosecution of that person or matter by a United States Attorney's Office or litigating Division of the Department of Justice would present a conflict of interest for the Department or other extraordinary circumstances; and (b) That under the circumstances, it would be in the public interest to appoint an outside Special Counsel to assume responsibility for the matter. CFR § 600.1.” The full text of the letter can be found HERE. ###
05.09.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE "I find Donald Trump's firing of FBI Director James Comey to be deeply shocking. As a former prosecutor, I believe his action suggests consciousness of guilt and is similar to what former President Richard Nixon did when faced with investigations against his own associates.” “Under the leadership of Director Comey, the FBI Counterintelligence Division is currently investigating associates of Donald Trump and perhaps Trump himself. The FBI may also be investigating Attorney General Jeff Sessions. The recommendation by Attorney General Sessions to fire Comey and the President's action of firing Comey suggest evidence of a massive cover up.” “In addition, Attorney General Sessions violated his own recusal terms by taking part in removing the head of the FBI who was leading a counterintelligence investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.” “I again call for a Special Prosecutor to investigate this grave matter. I also call for the House Judiciary Committee to subpoena Attorney General Sessions and FBI Director Comey to testify in an open hearing as soon as possible." ###
05.04.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA) introduced today the Chinese American World War II Congressional Gold Medal Act (H.R. 2358). The bipartisan legislation recognizes the dedicated service of Chinese American veterans of World War II and collectively awards them the Congressional Gold Medal. Chairman Royce: “The United States remains forever indebted to the bravery, valor, and dedication that the Chinese American veterans of World War II displayed. Their commitment and sacrifice demonstrates a highly uncommon and commendable sense of patriotism and honor in the face of discrimination. “To these brave veterans of World War II, thank you for your service and sacrifice. We are a grateful nation, and we honor your service by working towards a better world. We must promote diplomacy over conflict and ensure that war is the absolute last resort.” Rep. Lieu: “I am honored to join Congressman Ed Royce in introducing the Chinese American World War II Veterans Congressional Gold Medal Act. As we observe this month of May as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, the introduction of our bill is a timely reminder of the many contributions AAPIs have made to our great nation, including serving in our military. From the Atlantic to the Pacific, Chinese Americans served with courage and distinction during WWII and it is time for Congress to recognize them by awarding them the Congressional Gold Medal. As an Air Force veteran, I am thankful for those who came before who answered our nation’s call to serve. I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill to recognize the valiant contributions of our Chinese American Veterans.” NOTE: By the start of World War II in 1941, slightly more than 100,000 Chinese Americans had made a life for themselves in the U.S. Chinese Americans faced major challenges, including discrimination, before the start of World War II due to laws such as the Chinese Exclusion Act, which limited the size of their population and their ability to build thriving communities. Nevertheless, and even with the Chinese Exclusion Act in place, almost 20,000 of these brave men and women served in the armed forces in every theater of battle and every branch of service, earning citations for their heroism and honorable service. ###
05.04.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement celebrating May 4th as the “National Day of Reason” – a day celebrating the application of reason and logic in the affairs of humankind. On April 6, 2017, Congressman Lieu introduced H.Res. 263 designating today as the “National Day of Reason.” “There is no doubt that emotions and passions play an important role in American politics. They drive elected officials to pursue issues they care about and energize our citizens to participate in our great democracy. But as Jon Oliver said, “graphs aren’t Rorschach tests.” At a time when people are disputing indisputable facts and axing scientific funding, celebrating reason and logic is more important than ever. We will get the best results for society if we formulate public policy using sound logic and rational thought. That is why I am proud to introduce the National Day of Reason Resolution alongside my colleagues Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA).” ###
05.03.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - U.S. Representatives Ted Lieu (D-Calif.), Yvette Clarke (D-N.Y.), Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), Bill Flores (R-Texas), and Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) have formed and will serve as co-chairs of Congressional Caucus on Virtual, Augmented and Mixed Reality Technologies for the 115th Congress. The co-chairs released the following joint statement regarding formation of the caucus: “We are proud to announce the launch of the Congressional Caucus on Virtual, Augmented and Mixed Reality Technologies. As these technologies continue to advance and grow, this ‘Reality Caucus’ will work to foster information sharing between Congress and our nation’s world-leading technology industry. These technologies have shown tremendous potential for innovation in the fields of entertainment, education and healthcare. As these technologies develop, questions will inevitably rise in privacy, intellectual property and other areas. This is an opportunity to educate our colleagues and others to ensure Congress is doing all it can to encourage – rather than hinder – these enterprising fields. We look forward to working with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help support innovation and address the challenges posed by this emerging sector.” The Congressional Caucus on Virtual, Augmented and Mixed Reality Technologies will work to promote the advancing technologies of virtual reality, augmented reality and mixed reality to Members of Congress and their teams. ###
05.03.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the news that hackers have used the SS7 vulnerability in the global mobile network to drain bank customer accounts. “Everyone's accounts protected by text-based two-factor authentication, such as bank accounts, are potentially at risk until the FCC and telecom industry fix the devastating SS7 security flaw. Both the FCC and telecom industry have been aware that hackers can acquire our text messages and phone conversations just knowing our cell phone number. It is unacceptable the FCC and telecom industry have not acted sooner to protect our privacy and financial security. I urge the Republican-controlled Congress to hold immediate hearings on this issue.” ###
05.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the news that controversial Trump Administration staffer Sebastian Gorka will be leaving his post at the White House. “Remember that time Presidents Obama, Bush and Clinton had someone with deep ties to the anti-Semitic far-right serve on their senior staff? You can’t? Neither can I.” “It is deeply troubling that President Trump has allowed Sebastian Gorka to serve as a senior national security aide for over 100 days despite public evidence of his anti-Semitic associations. I am pleased to see reports that Gorka will ‘soon’ be leaving the White House, but those same reports indicate that he will remain in the post for the time being and that he may ultimately be shuffled to another position in the Administration. I don’t know what is more concerning: President Trump allowing such a person to continue to advise him and his Administration on national security policy, or taxpayers being forced to pay his salary.” “It is far past time for President Trump to do the right thing and fire Sebastian Gorka from his Administration. Until he does, he can count on me and my colleagues to raise the alarm.” ###
05.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement following the U.S. Supreme Court’s rejection of a challenge to the constitutionality of the state of California’s law banning so-called “gay conversion therapy.” Mr. Lieu authored the CA ban on conversion therapy in 2012. “The Supreme Court has rightly rejected the challenge to the constitutionality of California’s gay conversion therapy ban. Five years ago when I authored California’s law, we knew that the Constitution does not prevent government from banning an evil and fake therapy. The time is now for a federal ban of the fraudulent and harmful practice of conversion therapy. Progress will not be stopped.” ###
05.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the disturbing and provocative moves recently made by the Trump Administration regarding North Korea. “As a Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I have attended classified and unclassified briefings and hearings on North Korea, listened to foreign policy experts, and studied the region. Last year I traveled to South Korea, met with the Defense Minister, and visited U.S. troops serving there. After reflecting on the provocative actions and comments by the Trump Administration, I have concluded that the Administration's march toward war with North Korea is nuts.” “There are no good U.S. military options for North Korea. When I served on active duty in the Air Force, I was stationed at Andersen AFB in Guam and traveled to bases in Japan and South Korea. It was clear then that any U.S. attack on North Korea could quickly escalate to an all-out war in the region, resulting in millions killed or injured. That remains the situation today.” “While I agree North Korea is a threat to U.S. national security, the regime is still years away from being able to strike the U.S. homeland. War must always be the last resort. The Administration threatening a 'major conflict' and saying 'the sword stands ready' is irresponsible and can lead to catastrophic miscalculations. Instead, the Trump Administration needs to use all the levers of U.S. power, such as increased economic sanctions, and pursue further diplomacy. That requires articulating a clear and consistent strategy and fully funding the State Department—two things this Administration has unfortunately refused to do." ###
05.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s Executive Order that directs the Department of Interior (DOI) to review the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management’s current 2017-2022 five-year oil and gas leasing plan. Under this executive order, the DOI will consider all areas of the Outer Continental Shelf for oil and gas leases. “I am infuriated by President Trump’s Executive Order that could open up California’s coast to oil drilling. Increasing oil dependence will not make us more energy independent. Instead, it risks the ruin of our beautiful coastline and ocean ecosystems. Rather than advocating backward and destructive ideas that will wreak havoc on our oceans, we need to focus on the threat of rising seas and ocean acidification caused by climate change. My Democratic colleagues and I will fight tooth and nail to ensure that California’s coast is not tarnished by offshore drilling.”
04.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s proposed tax plan. “I can explain in one word why the Trump tax plan and Trumpcare are both disasters: math. No matter how hard the President and Republicans spin it, 2 + 2 will never equal 5.” “Despite this mathematically impossible spin, a cold, hard fact remains: the Trump tax plan does not pay for itself. It doesn’t even come close. America is a great nation, but we haven’t yet discovered magic. In the real world, the rules of math always apply. Instead of paying for itself, the Trump tax plan - particularly it’s slashing of the business tax rate to 15% without offsetting revenue increases - will blow a ‘bigly’ hole in our nation’s budget, federal deficit and federal debt." ###
04.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Lieu and 68 Members of Congress introduced the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act of 2017 to stop so-called “conversion therapy.” Conversion therapy falsely purports to change an individual’s sexual orientation. It is wholly ineffective and causes serious harm to those subjected to it. Mr. Lieu’s legislation amends the Federal Trade Commission Act to classify commercial conversion therapy and advertising that claims to change sexual orientation and gender identity as fraud. The TFPA would empower the Federal Trade Commission to enforce this legislation, and it would also open practitioners up to civil litigation. In 2012, Congressman Lieu authored legislation in California that became the first state-wide ban on conversion therapy. Since that time, six additional states and several municipalities have enacted similar bans. Upon introduction of the legislation, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: “Today, I am proud to introduce the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act of 2017 to ensure that no person is forced to undergo ‘conversion therapy.’ Conversion therapy isn’t only ineffective, it’s also dangerous. Yet, those providing it charge families thousands of dollars and suffer few consequences. It is time that we put an end to this scam and pass this legislation, sending a message that being LGBT cannot be and does not need to be cured.” ENDORSEMENTS & QUOTES OF SUPPORT The Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act of 2017 has been endorsed by the Southern Poverty Law Center, Human Rights Campaign, National Center for Lesbian Rights, PFLAG National, National Center for Transgender Equality, GLSEN, American Academy of Pediatrics, National Association of School Psychologists, School Social Work Association of America, American Counseling Association, Equality California, Los Angeles LGBT Center, National Association of Secondary School Principals, American Psychoanalytic Association, American School Counselor Association. Southern Poverty Law Center - David Dinielli, Deputy Legal Director “Conversion therapy is fraud, plain and simple. It is premised on the lie that LGBT people are ill or disordered and that they should be cured. The scientific community has concluded that it doesn’t work, and that it can cause serious harm by stigmatizing kids and blaming their families. It’s high time the federal government ban the sale of conversion therapy and we commend Representative Lieu for this bold legislation. Nobody should be permitted to dupe desperate kids and families into purchasing this dangerous quackery.” National Association of School Psychologists - Todd Savage, Past President "The National Association of School Psychologists applauds and supports Representative Lieu and Senator Murray and their efforts to reintroduce the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act in Congress. The research has consistently demonstrated conversion therapy for LGBTQ+ persons not only to be completely ineffective but actually to be harmful to persons who have undergone conversation therapy. As school-based mental health professionals, we have legal, moral, and ethical obligations to optimize the mental health and the academic success of all students, including LGBTQ+ students; this bill will assist in these efforts." National Center for Transgender Equality - Harper Jean Tobin, Director of Policy "Every young person should be accepted and support for who they are, not shamed or harmed for it. So-called conversion therapy has no place in modern America and the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act is a critical step toward ending this practice. This bill calls out this practice for what it is: deceptive and dangerous. The federal government has a responsibility to stop deceptive practices that are based on stereotypes rather than science. The National Center for Transgender Equality welcomes this bill and urges Congress to take swift action to ensure not another LGBT person is misled by damaging practices or forced to deny who they are." Human Rights Campaign - Chad Griffin, President “So-called ‘conversion therapy’ is nothing more than child abuse and those who inflict it on others must be held accountable. HRC thanks Senators Murray and Booker and Representative Lieu for their efforts to outlaw this dangerous and inhumane practice. Now more than ever, we must send a clear message to the LGBTQ community -- and especially LGBTQ young people -- that who you are is not something that needs to be fixed.” American Psychoanalytic Association - Harriet Wolfe, President “The American Psychoanalytic Association affirms the right of all people to their sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression without interference or coercive interventions attempting to change sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. Such directed efforts are against fundamental principles of psychoanalytic treatment and often result in substantial psychological pain.” American Counseling Association - Richard Yep, CEO “The American Counseling Association, the largest organized body of counseling professionals in the world, has concluded that conversion therapy is not only unethical, it does not work and can actually be detrimental to one's mental health. We applaud Representative Lieu for his work on the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act and we fully support this legislation being enacted into law.” Equality California – Rick Zbur, Executive Director “A national consensus of professionals in education, health and counseling agrees that so-called ‘conversion therapy’ puts LGBT people, especially vulnerable LGBT youth, at risk of depression, self-harm and even suicide. In 2012, Equality California worked with Congressman Lieu to make California the first state in the nation to ban this dangerous practice and we are ready to help him at the federal level to ensure that all LGBT people across the country have the same protections.” National Association of Secondary School Principals - JoAnn Bartoletti, Executive Director "The men and women who lead our nation's schools know well that fulfilling one's potential begins by allowing students to be their genuine selves. By falsely asserting a student's inherent disorder, conversion therapy diminishes a student's value, compromise their ability to achieve, and ultimately robs the future of that student's contribution." National Center for Lesbian Rights - Carolyn Reyes, Youth Policy Counsel “We are proud to stand with Congressman Lieu, a longtime leader in the fight to end conversion therapy, and the courageous survivors who have been speaking out for years against these practices. This important legislation will not only put an end to profiting from peddling fraudulent claims about sexual orientation and gender identity, it will save lives by sending a clear message to every child in the country that no matter who they are or where they live, they were born perfect.” American Academy of Pediatrics - Fernando Stein, MD, FAAP, President “All children and adolescents deserve the opportunity to learn and develop in a safe and supportive environment. ‘Conversion therapy’ is harmful to children and can have lasting, detrimental effects on their emotional, mental and physical health. The American Academy of Pediatrics supports the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act and its ban of conversion therapy, and we thank Rep. Lieu for introducing legislation to protect children and teens from this harmful practice.” ###
04.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Los Angeles – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding Yom Hashoah Ve Hagevurah – the Day of the Holocaust and the Heroism: "Today, we mark Yom Hashoah Ve Hagevurah—the Day of the Holocaust and the Heroism. We remember the darkest chapter of our history to instill its lessons on the next generation and honor those who resisted the Nazis’ mission of hate. "We declare “Never Again” not because it is inevitable, but because we must constantly renew that promise to our sons and daughters. As we know all too well, anti-Semitism has yet to be relegated to history. Each rally by an anti-Semitic political party in Europe and each act of vandalism on a Jewish cemetery or community center in our country reminds us of the work we still have left to do. "As we remember our history and work to combat modern anti-Semitism, we stand united in peace, community, and tolerance to overcome hatred and discrimination in all its forms.” ###
04.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding recent escalating tensions with North Korea: “Rather than putting forward a comprehensive strategy that includes a serious diplomatic effort, the Trump Administration is reacting to Pyongyang’s provocative behavior by ratcheting up tensions. The Trump Administration's escalating moves and statements put American allies and American troops at serious risk.” “The reality is that North Korea is still years away from having an operational ICBM that would endanger the U.S. homeland. What they have now is a massive stockpile of artillery and ballistic missiles aimed at Seoul, Tokyo, and every American military base in the region. A preemptive U.S. military strike – or a preemptive strike by a rattled North Korea – could lead to millions dead.” “The job of the United States – the world's lone superpower – is to de-escalate conflicts and increase international norms. The military option should always be the last resort. If the Administration wishes to shut off the diplomatic option in less than 100 days, all it says is that they haven't tried very hard nor fully considered the potentially catastrophic consequences of war with North Korea. The Trump Administration needs to work with other countries to de-escalate tensions on the Korean peninsula, not lead us down the path to war.” ###
04.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWashington – A group of House Democrats led by Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today wrote to the FBI and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) requesting that they suspend White House Senior Advisor and President Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner’s security clearance, citing his admission that he “omitted” required details about meetings with foreign officials from an FBI questionnaire. The letter was signed by Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Peter Welch (D-VT), who also issued the following statement: “We were concerned last week that a story with significant national security implications – White House Senior Adviser Jared Kushner’s ‘omission’ of meetings with foreign government officials – did not receive the scrutiny it deserved. Mr. Kushner must divulge the details of his meetings with foreign officials and explain why he did not reveal them when he was clearly required by to do so by law. The fact that Kushner is President Trump’s son-in-law does not place him above the law. Anyone else would face severe discipline for failing to disclose meetings with foreign officials, a material omission which potentially amounts to a criminal offense. Furthermore, background checks for security clearances are in large part assessments of the judgment of the person being evaluated. Mr. Kushner signed a legal document that withheld details about significant meetings with foreign officials, including meetings with allies and emissaries of Vladimir Putin. This action throws Mr. Kushner’s judgment into serious question and doubt. We are gravely concerned about the larger context within which this omission occurred. Mr. Kushner’s lack of candor about meetings with Russian officials appears to be part of a larger pattern of dissembling and deception on Russian contacts from the Trump team, and we believe the public deserves the truth about why these meetings took place and what they mean for U.S. foreign policy.”Background: the New York Times’ reported on Kushner’s meetings with Russian officials and his subsequent omission of those meetings from the OPM form on Thursday, April 6, 2017. The form in question was OPM’s SF-86, “Questionnaire for National Security Positions.” Instructions on page two of that form note the following: “The U.S. Criminal Code (title 18, section 1001) provides that knowingly falsifying or concealing a material fact is a felony which may result in fines and/or up to five (5) years imprisonment. In addition, Federal agencies generally fire, do not grant a security clearance, or disqualify individuals who have materially and deliberately falsified these forms, and this remains a part of the permanent record for future placements. Your prospects of placement or security clearance are better if you answer all questions truthfully and completely. You will have adequate opportunity to explain any information you provide on this form and to make your comments part of the record.” Full text of the letter follows, and a copy with signatures may be viewed here. The Honorable James Comey Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation U.S. Department of Justice 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Charles S. Phalen, Jr. Director, National Background Investigations Bureau U.S. Office of Personnel Management 1900 E Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20415 Dear Directors Comey and Phalen: We are concerned about a story reported by The New York Times on April 6, 2017, alleging Jared Kushner, a senior advisor and son-in-law to the president, failed to disclose key meetings with foreign government officials during his application process for top-secret clearance. According to the report, Mr. Kushner omitted dozens of contacts with foreign leaders from his Standard Form-86 (SF-86), including with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak and Sergey Gorkov, a prominent Russian banker and a graduate of the Academy of [the] Federal Security Service of Russia (FSB). Lack of candor, particularly regarding contacts with Russian officials, was a significant issue for the Trump Transition. The president fired his National Security Advisor, General Michael Flynn, for lying about foreign contacts. Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from matters related to the campaign and transition after he misled the Senate Judiciary Committee about contacts with Ambassador Kislyak during his confirmation hearing. We are concerned that Jared Kushner may have engaged in similar deception. Knowingly falsifying or concealing information on a SF-86 questionnaire is a felony, punishable by up to five years in prison. Given the severity of the allegations and still unanswered questions about this administration’s recently uncovered covert dealings with Russian government and intelligence officials, we are requesting that Mr. Kushner’s interim top-secret security clearance be suspended pending a review of Mr. Kushner’s compliance with the laws and regulation governing security clearances. Additionally, we are requesting Mr. Kushner immediately make public all meetings he had with foreign government officials between June 16, 2015, the date Mr. Trump announced his candidacy for president of the United States, and January 20, 2017, the date the president was sworn in. Sincerely, ###
04.11.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Rep. Ted Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement regarding the revelation that the FBI obtained a secret court order to surveil Trump campaign advisor Carter Page due to fears he was acting as an asset of the Russian government. “The revelation that Trump Campaign Team Member Carter Page's communications were monitored by the FBI – via a secret court order – is stunning and explosive. This means an independent FISA court judge authorized FBI surveillance of Page due to probable cause that he was acting as an agent of the Russian government at the height of the 2016 U.S. Election.” “There is nothing more important than the American people’s right to know the whole truth about any possible collusion between Russia and the Trump Campaign. That’s why a special prosecutor must be appointed by the Department of Justice to investigate this urgent matter. That is exactly what Reps. Kathleen Rice, Stacey Plaskett and I called for last week in a letter to acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente.” “The new revelations about Page, along with Michael Flynn's pending request for immunity, add urgency to our request for a special prosecutor. At stake is the legitimacy of the Presidency and the integrity of our democracy. The acting Deputy Attorney General must appoint a Special Prosecutor now.” ###
04.10.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has led a letter with 30 fellow House Members to Defense Secretary Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson requesting information related to the operational conduct of the Royal Saudi Air Force (RSAF) in Yemen. Mr. Lieu and his Congressional colleagues are requesting this information in response to a Trump Administration policy reversal and news that the Administration is preparing to formally notify Congress of a precision guided munitions sale to Saudi Arabia. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and his fellow Members of Congress write: “As you know, the previous Administration made the decision in December 2016 to halt a planned sale of precision-guided munitions (PGM) to Saudi Arabia due to concerns over widespread civilian casualties and significant deficiencies in RSAF’s targeting capabilities.” “According to recent reports, however, the State Department has now reversed course and removed the suspension on these PGM sales.” “The possession alone of PGMs does not indicate sophisticated targeting capabilities. It is in our national security interest – as well as that of our Saudi partners – to ensure that the RSAF has the ability to avoid civilian casualties before the U.S. sells them any additional air-to-ground munitions.” FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
04.07.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the U.S. missile strikes in Syria: “President Bashar al-Assad’s latest attack on his own people with chemical weapons was heinous and heartbreaking. The U.S. Constitution, however, does not allow the President to engage in acts of war without authorization from Congress. Having served on active duty as a JAG, I am well aware of the legal authorities for the use of military force. President Trump’s unilateral decision to launch 59 Tomahawk missiles at another country’s military—which had not attacked the U.S.—was unconstitutional.” “In 2001, Congress authorized the President to use military force against nations and terrorists that committed or aided ‘the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001.’ In 2002, Congress authorized the President to use military force to defend the U.S. against the ‘threat posed by Iraq’ and to enforce U.N. Resolutions ‘regarding Iraq.’ Neither of those authorizations apply in this case.” “As a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I am also deeply disturbed by the whiplash actions of the Trump Administration and the lack of any coherent strategy in Syria. Last week, the Trump Administration signaled that it was okay with allowing Assad to stay in power, even though Assad had already killed hundreds of thousands of people in Syria and previously used chemical weapons. Yesterday, the Trump Administration attacked the Assad regime.” “In 2013, Assad used chemical weapons in Syria. Donald Trump stated that the President needed ‘Congressional approval’ in order to bomb Syria. He was right. I urge Trump to follow his own advice, as well as the Constitution, and stop engaging in unilateral acts of war without Congressional approval.” ###
04.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Representative Ted W. Lieu (D|Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s latest disturbing comments on the ongoing national security crisis surrounding North Korea. “Secretary Tillerson’s mystifying statement on North Korea’s latest missile test is deeply troubling. The U.S. should not remain silent against belligerence directed at our allies and troops stationed abroad, nor suggest that diplomatic efforts are already over. The fact that the Secretary of State believes the U.S. has ‘spoken enough’ about North Korea belies a disturbing lack of understanding of the role of our top diplomat. It also highlights that the Trump Administration has failed to articulate a strategy on the North Korean threat.” “I am also disturbed by brazen statements from the Administration. A senior White House official stated that ‘the clock has now run out.’ President Trump stated that if China is not going to solve North Korea, then the U.S. will do it alone. On the world stage, word choice matters very much, and this Administration – with such provocative language – is potentially making empty threats or setting us on a course for war.” “The Trump Administration has not explained to the American people what it is doing. What is U.S. strategy for North Korea? How will the U.S. go it ‘alone’? What if North Korea rains down artillery shells and missiles on South Korea in response to unilateral U.S. action?” “The American people and our allies deserve answers. The Trump Administration needs to explain to Congress and the American public what its strategy is for North Korea, not make cryptic or provocative statements to an adversary that has nuclear weapons.” ###
04.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWashington – Representative Ted W. Lieu (D|Los Angeles County) has sent a letter to acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente requesting the appointment of a Special Prosecutor to investigate any Trump campaign collusion with Russia. The recent disclosure that President Trump’s first National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn, has asked for immunity is just the latest reason why a Special Prosecutor is needed to investigate potential collusion between the Russian Government and the Trump campaign to influence the outcome of the 2016 U.S. Election. Representatives Kathleen Rice (D|NY) and Stacey Plaskett (D|U.S. Virgin Islands) are co-signers of the letter. Reps. Lieu, Rice and Plaskett are all former prosecutors. In their letter to acting Deputy Attorney General Boente, the representatives write: “Because you serve at the pleasure of the President, it is our belief that you have a conflict of interest and cannot exercise true independence into an investigation that may implicate the President. That is one of several reasons we request that you appoint a Special Counsel to investigate any collusion with Russia.” “The recent disclosure that President Trump’s first National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn, has asked for immunity provides a second reason why you need to appoint a special prosecutor… Congress, however, cannot grant immunity from prosecution on behalf of the Department of Justice. Only the Department can make that decision, which is why we need a Special Counsel to decide.” “The public interest also demands that a special prosecutor be appointed. There is no more important matter to our nation than the issue of whether or not the Trump campaign colluded with Russia. At stake is the legitimacy of the Presidency and whether high crimes occurred.” The full text of the letter can be found HERE. ###
03.31.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in opposition to the Internal Revenue Service’s decision to close its El Segundo office, which is currently located in California’s 33rd congressional district. In early February of this year, Rep. Lieu sent a letter to the IRS Commissioner in opposition to the planned closure, requesting additional information on this decision. “Last year, the IRS informed my office of its plan to close its El Segundo location and transfer staff to its Long Beach Federal Building. Since then I have written to the IRS requesting additional information on the move, its cost-benefit analysis to taxpayers, and what alternative options constituents will have when seeking IRS services. As the steward of taxpayer dollars, the IRS should demonstrate the same thoroughness in accounting for money that it asks of American taxpayers. I believe this decision to close the El Segundo office is arbitrary and capricious, and the lack of transparency on the part of the agency is troubling.” ###
03.30.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Earlier this week, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis regarding recent reports of significant increases in civilian casualties from U.S. airstrikes in Syria and Iraq. EXCERPTS FROM THE LETTER “Having served on active duty as a JAG officer, I am highly disturbed by reports that recent U.S.-led coalition airstrikes have caused large numbers of civilian casualties in Syria and Iraq. As a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I am also deeply concerned that deaths of innocent children and women from U.S. airstrikes sets us back strategically, makes it more difficult to secure peace, and increases terrorist recruitment.” “The substantial increases in civilian deaths caused by U.S. military force in Syria and Iraq brings into question whether the Trump Administration is violating the Law of War. The large number of civilian casualties also suggests a possible breakdown in target selection, intelligence gathering, or operational execution.” “The American public deserves to know what is going on in Syria and Iraq. The apparently large numbers of children and civilian adults being killed by U.S. forces is not acceptable.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
03.29.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House Judiciary Committee rejected a resolution of inquiry (H. Res 184) introduced by Rep. Lieu and Rep. Jeffries (D-NY). The resolution directs the Department of Justice and the White House to provide the House of Representatives with information related to contact between Attorney General Jeff Sessions and the Russian government, his preparation for the confirmation hearing in which he gave false testimony under oath, and meetings that occurred between agents of the Russian government and other key Trump campaign advisors. The full text of the Resolution of Inquiry can be found here. “Once again, House Republicans have rejected an effort to shed light on a possible threat to our core values as Americans. There is a reason that, time after time, President Trump’s advisors—including the Attorney General—have lied about meetings with agents of the Russian government. Why did Mr. Sessions give false and misleading testimony? Why have so many people in President Trump’s inner circle made contact with the Russians, who attempted to undermine our electoral process? Why did Attorney General Sessions only partially recuse himself from investigations involving Trump’s associates? This resolution was a simple request for information to answer basic but vital questions. I am disturbed and disheartened that the GOP shirked its responsibility to the American public.” FULL TEXT OF THE RESOLUTION CAN BE FOUND HERE. ###
03.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order rolling back President Obama’s climate actions. The order directs the Environmental Protection Agency to redraft regulations related to carbon emissions at power plants, eliminates guidance calling for the consideration of climate change when making federal decisions, allows for federal coal leasing, and promotes the development of gas and oil on public lands. “Unlike the 69 percent of the Americans who support limits on coal power plants, President Trump doesn’t understand or doesn’t care that we need to act on climate now. Today’s executive order will not bring back jobs nor will it make us more energy secure. What it will do is increase pollution, threaten public health, and risk the ruin of some our most treasured public lands. Climate change is the most pressing issue of our time – one that we cannot wait to address – and the United States cannot afford to cede its leadership in addressing it. Even if President Trump wants to move us backwards, I will continue to fight in Congress for climate action and stand firmly behind California and other states who understand the importance of clean energy and environmental protections.” ###
03.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Rep. Ted Lieu, D-Calif., today called on the Federal Communications Commission to take concrete steps to plug serious vulnerabilities in U.S. mobile phone networks, in a letter to FCC Chairman Pai. Last week a report created by experts for the FCC found that criminals, hackers and foreign countries could exploit a number of vulnerabilities in wireless phone infrastructure to track, surveil and hack Americans’ phones. “The continued existence of these vulnerabilities – and the industry’s lax approach to cybersecurity – does not just impact the liberty of Americans, it also poses a serious threat to our national and economic security. As such, the FCC must take swift action to address fundamental security threats to our mobile phones, which are no less dangerous than those cybersecurity threats that receive far more attention from other government agencies.” The most well-known vulnerability is known as ‘SS7’, referring to a common phone interconnection system. Although these flaws have been known for years, telecommunication companies have done little to address them. “It is clear that industry self-regulation isn’t working when it comes to telecommunications cybersecurity,” Wyden and Lieu continued. Wyden and Lieu urged the FCC to take three steps to address the SS7 vulnerability: 1. Force cellular carriers to take action on these issues; 2. Warn Americans about the hacking and surveillance threats to their phones; and 3. Promote the use of end-to-end encryption apps, which may mitigate some SS7 risks, as the FCC working group recommended. Read the full letter here. Earlier this month, Wyden and Lieu also asked the Department of Homeland Security to explain how it is addressing these telecommunications vulnerabilities. Additional Background: Sen. Wyden is a senior member of the Senate Intelligence Committee and congressional leader on smart technology and security policy. Congressman Lieu has been a leading congressional advocate for stronger cyber security and privacy measures to protect consumers, especially when it comes to mobile devices. On April 16, 2016, Congressman Lieu was featured on 60 Minutes in a story exposing a major flaw in the SS7 protocol that allows sophisticated hackers to intercept cell phone conversations, data and text messages. In response to the report, the FCC opened up an investigation into the SS7 flaw on April 20, 2016, and requested that mobile carriers provide information with respect to the timing and methods used to issue security updates to their devices. In August 2016, he sent a letter to the FCC asking them to expedite their investigation into the SS7 flaw. ###
03.23.2017	Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the CNN report that Trump associates possibly colluded with Russia to affect the outcome of the 2016 election in the United States. “The bombshell revelation that U.S. officials have information that suggests Trump associates may have colluded with the Russians means we must pause the entire Trump agenda. We may have an illegitimate President of the United States currently occupying the White House.” “Other than allowing routine governmental functions, there must be a total and complete shutdown of any agenda item being pushed by the Trump Administration. Congress cannot continue regular order and must stop voting on any Trump-backed agenda item until the FBI completes its Trump-Russia collusion investigation.” “Congress must immediately form an independent commission and appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the collusion allegations with impartiality and independence. Congress also needs to pass the Resolution of Inquiry, authored by Rep. Hakeem Jeffries and I, to compel the Trump Administration to publicly disclose information on its Russian ties to the American people. At this point in our nation's history, there is nothing more important than finding out whether or not high crimes were committed by associates of Donald Trump or possibly by Trump himself.” ###
03.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding Governor Jerry Brown’s announcement that the Republican Health Care Plan will cost California $6 billion a year in new taxes. “Today’s revelation by Governor Jerry Brown of a $6 billion a year tax bill for California under President Trump’s health care plan is astounding. I triple-dog-dare moderate House Republicans from California to vote for TrumpCare.” ###
03.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MEDIA ADVISORY: REP. TED W. LIEU ON HBO’S REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER THIS FRIDAY, MARCH 24th 10PM ET | PT Mr. Lieu – a leading critic of the Trump Administration – is expected to discuss the news of the week: President Trump, Russia investigations and Capitol Hill’s health care battle on Mr. Maher’s Emmy-nominated program. ***
03.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Associated Press report that former Trump Campaign Chairman Paul Manafort worked for a Russian billionaire to benefit Vladimir Putin and the Russian Government. “This morning’s report about Paul Manafort’s secret work to benefit Vladimir Putin’s government is a new explosive revelation in the increasingly disturbing story of the Trump Campaign’s connections to Russia. The revelation that Manafort was paid $10 million by a Russian oligarch to influence politics, corporate dealings and media coverage to benefit Putin is scary enough. Even more ominous is the fact that the Trump White House keeps lying about its ties to Russia.” “For the good of our Republic, there must be a full accounting of any and all ties between Russia, President Trump, his administration and his associates. Russia waged an unprecedented, robust, covert effort to alter the outcome of our nation's 2016 election. The importance of fully understanding if Team Trump colluded with Russia cannot be overstated. That’s why Rep. Hakeem Jeffries and I have introduced a House resolution of inquiry that could compel the Trump Administration to publicly disclose information to Congress and the American people.” “The American people have an absolute right to know the truth about Trump and his team's ties to Russia now." ###
03.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced bipartisan legislation (House Resolution 218) to recognize the economic accomplishments of the U.S.-Israel economic partnership and support enhanced collaboration across a variety of sectors within the science and technology sphere. Since the signing of the U.S.-Israel Free Trade Agreement three decades ago, Israel has become one of America’s most dynamic economic collaborators in the Middle East and North Africa. Today, even individual U.S. states are partnering with Israel to collaborate on areas of interest, as California did in 2014 on water conservation and cybersecurity. This legislation supports deepening these ongoing partnerships. Upon introduction of the legislation, Congressman Lieu said: “The U.S.-Israel economic partnership has become one of the most exciting aspects of the bilateral relationship. Our joint research institutions are collaborating on life-changing medical breakthroughs, and our technology sectors are fueling ground-breaking innovations from Silicon Beach to Silicon Wadi. I am proud to introduce this legislation to send strong, bipartisan support for deepening U.S.-Israel cooperation in promising fields like energy, water conservation, neurotechnology and cybersecurity.” Upon introduction of the legislation, Congressman Poe said: “Israel is one of the strongest allies of the United States. In a dangerous world, our bilateral relationship focuses on security issues, but it does not end there. Economic ties bond our two peoples together. Israel was the first country the United States entered into an free trade agreement with and the trade relationship has flourished ever since. That relationship spans across nearly every economic sector, with especially close cooperation in the fields of technology, agriculture, and science. The bilateral economic relationship strengthens our alliance and is built on our shared values of free enterprise and innovation. In a time of uncertainty in the world, this legislation is necessary to reaffirm the United States commitment to Israel is unwavering.” ### Additional Legislative Details: Congressmen Lieu and Poe were joined by 36 original cosponsors in introducing H. Res. 218 which seeks to: (1) affirm the robustness of the economic relationship; (2) recognize that science and technology innovation present new frontiers for economic cooperation; (3) encourage the Administration to expand and regularize existing forums of economic dialogue with Israel; and (4) support the exploration of new agreements, including in the fields of energy, water, agriculture, medicine, neurotechnology and cybersecurity. U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Cory Gardener (R-CO) and Jon Tester (D-MT) today introduced companion legislation to H. Res. 218 in the U.S. Senate. Endorsed by: U.S. Chamber of Commerce, American Jewish Committee, American Israel Public Affairs Committee, J Street, Jewish Federations of North America, B'nai B'rith International Original Cosponsors of the Resolution (36): Allen, Carbajal, Cicilline, Connolly, Delaney, DeSantis, Deutch, Donovan, Foster, Frankel, Green, Hastings, Jenkins, Kelly, King, Lamborn, Langevin, Lipinski, Lowenthal, Marino, Meng, Moore, Murphy, Nadler, Poe, Quigley, Rice, Rokita, Rosen, Roskam, Ros-Lehtinen, Serrano, Swalwell, Velázquez, Wasserman Schultz, Yoho ###
03.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI), joined by Representatives John Ratcliffe (R-TX), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Rick Allen (R-GA), and Hank Johnson (D-GA), today introduced the Department of Defense (DOD) Cyber Scholarship Program Act of 2017, legislation that would improve the cybersecurity workforce pipeline by reinvigorating and improving an existing DOD scholarship program for students pursuing degrees in cybersecurity fields. The bill is the House companion to S. 592, introduced by Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA), David Perdue (R-GA), and Mike Rounds (R-SD). “The Information Assurance Scholarship Program (IASP) has boosted the nation’s cyber forces through scholarships and grant opportunities at colleges and universities across the country, and has strengthened the Department of Defense as a result,” said Langevin, the co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus, who is also a senior member of the House Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. “I have been a longtime supporter of these types of initiatives across the whole of government, and it is imperative we reinvigorate this program, which has done so much good for our superiority in cyberspace.” The DOD Cyber Scholarship Program Act would rename the IASP as the DOD Cyber Scholarship Program, expand scholarships to students pursuing Associate’s Degrees, and authorize the scholarship program to receive $10 million in Fiscal Year 2018. Due to budget constraints, IASP stopped recruiting new students in 2013, starving the Department of needed cyber talent and increasing the difficulty of recruiting skilled professionals into government positions. “America needs the best and brightest to tackle the cybersecurity challenges we’re confronted with each day. Step one is making cybersecurity service to the nation more attractive. This bill increases educational opportunities for those who can help bolster United States’ own cyber workforce, which will strengthen our ability to face growing cybersecurity challenges both now and moving forward,” said Ratcliffe. “The strength of our national security is dependent on the investments we put into it. With the rapid advances we’ve seen in cyberwarfare, having a trained and prepared workforce is essential to protecting the homeland,” said Aguilar. “I am pleased to co-lead the bi-partisan DOD Cyber Scholarship Program Act to provide $10 million in scholarship funds to aspiring cybersecurity students. As a Computer Science major myself, I am well aware of the threats facing our nation in the cybersecurity area. The DOD needs to have the best and brightest cybersecurity professionals with eager minds ready to put their education to work securing the nation’s military weapons systems and communication networks,” said Lieu. “A skilled workforce is the backbone of any and every field – and in cyberspace, we face different threats from our adversaries each and every day,” said Allen. “At Fort Gordon, in my district, our soldiers are on the frontline of fighting these attacks – and in the changing electronic world we live, we must have the best and the brightest standing ready to support the needs of our military. I have always said we must encourage students to find their passions early on and allow those interests to be carried on throughout their educational careers – the cyber industry is yet another example. Augusta University is leading educational innovation in my district to prepare the next generation of cyber warriors. Investing in future generations makes it possible to field the cyber threats of today, tomorrow and years to come.” “I applaud this very important bicameral and bipartisan legislation, which will help bolster the Department of Defense’s waning cybersecurity workforce. Competition from the tech world has made recruiting and retaining top public sector cybersecurity professionals a challenge. I am proud to support the DOD Cybersecurity scholarship program at universities across the country, as they engage and educate students from various backgrounds and at different levels of education. Georgia universities are leading the effort to ensure a vibrant and highly-skilled government and public-sector cybersecurity workforce, and the DOD Cyber Scholarship Program Act of 2017 will help secure these efforts for years to come,” said Johnson. ###
03.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on President Trump’s budget blueprint for Fiscal Year 2018. “I have now reviewed Donald Trump’s first budget. It is a ridiculous budget from a ridiculous President. His crazy budget proposal is a disaster and it’s dangerous.” “A budget isn’t just facts and figures; it’s a statement of values and vision. Tragically, Trump’s values are apparently to assault the elderly, the middle class and the young. Trump’s vision puts our troops at greatly increased risk, while abandoning diplomacy, development and support for fledgling democracies around the world.” “In Donald Trump’s America, there’s apparently no need to make college more affordable. Pell Grants will be slashed by $4 billion and work-study programs will be cut, making it much harder for students to get an education. In Donald Trump’s America, you better live in Trump Tower and not get sick, because federal affordable housing programs will be gutted, as will grants that fund cancer research.” “In Donald Trump’s America, 26 million more people will lack health insurance and there will be a spike in domestic violence because Violence Against Women Act grants will be gutted. And for Trump, the urgent, fierce facts of the global climate crisis are ignored. Trump will walk away from the Clean Power Plan, slash programs to develop green technology and eliminate climate change research.” “With his disgraceful budget, Donald Trump has sent a clear message to every American: You’re On Your Own, Folks. But my fellow Democrats and I have a different message: our budget proposals seek to make our nation healthier and more sustainable, more secure, more just and more inclusive. We are ready to fight for those values and for that vision of America.” “Oh, and the elimination of the Meals on Wheels program by Trump is bizarrely cruel. I double dare the Republicans to let seniors starve.” ###
03.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s comments about potential U.S. pre-emptive military strikes on North Korea. "As a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a veteran, I call on Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to stop making provocative comments about pre-emptive attacks on North Korea. North Korea is a danger to regional peace and security and their leader is crazy. But fighting crazy with crazy is a recipe for disaster.” “We need to de-escalate regional tensions on the Korean peninsula, not ratchet them up. Any attack by the U.S. on North Korea would likely result in retaliation against South Korea or Japan or other nations. What is President Trump and Secretary Tillerson’s plan for protecting the U.S. troops and civilians in South Korea and Japan from being slaughtered?” “Any plan to fully take out North Korea’s nuclear program would also likely require a ground invasion. President Trump needs to articulate a clear strategy with regards to peace and security in the region before our Secretary of State potentially starts a war in North Korea.” ###
03.15.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Rep. Ted Lieu, D-Calif., today urged the Department of Homeland Security to tell Americans how their security may be threatened by a vulnerability that could allow hackers and foreign governments to track, wiretap, and hack their mobile phones. “We suspect that most Americans simply have no idea how easy it is for a relatively sophisticated adversary to track their movements, tap their calls, and hack their smartphones. We are also concerned that the government has not adequately considered the counterintelligence threat posed by SS7-enabled surveillance,” Wyden and Lieu wrote to Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly today. Read the full letter here. Security researchers and news reports have documented a weakness in cell phone infrastructure that can allow foreign governments or sophisticated hackers to remotely track mobile phones, and even plant malware to allow for invasive surveillance. However, there continue to be many unanswered questions about how vulnerable Americans are, and what steps the government and phone companies are taking to protect consumers from criminals and foreign threats. Wyden and Lieu asked Secretary Kelly to provide answers to the following questions by March 31, 2017. Do you have any reason to doubt the significance of the SS7-enabled surveillance threat? What resources has DHS allocated to identifying and addressing SS7-related threats? Are these resources sufficient to protect U.S. government officials and the private sector? Have U.S. wireless carriers provided all necessary assistance in determining the extent to which their networks are vulnerable, and the extent to which SS7-enabled access to their cellular networks has been exploited by foreign adversaries? Congress has been sounding the alarm about SS7-enabled surveillance for nearly a year. What steps has DHS taken to make the public aware of these threats? Additional Background: Sen. Wyden is a senior member of the Senate Intelligence Committee and congressional leader on smart technology and security policy. Congressman Lieu has been a leading congressional advocate for stronger cyber security and privacy measures to protect consumers, especially when it comes to mobile devices. On April 16, 2016, Congressman Lieu was featured on 60 Minutes in a story exposing a major flaw in the SS7 protocol that allows sophisticated hackers to intercept cell phone conversations, data and text messages. In response to the report, the FCC opened up an investigation into the SS7 flaw on April 20, 2016, and requested that mobile carriers provide information with respect to the timing and methods used to issue security updates to their devices. In August 2016, he sent a letter to the FCC asking them to expedite their investigation into the SS7 flaw. The FCC’s final report is expected in March 2017. ###
03.15.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding reports that unsealed court documents raise new questions about the safety of Monsanto weed killer Roundup and its chief ingredient glyphosate. “New questions about the safety of Monsanto weed killer Roundup are deeply troubling. I worked on the glyphosate issue last term and I believe consumers should immediately stop using Roundup, whose core ingredient glyphosate has been labeled a likely carcinogen and has been linked to non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma by the International Agency for Research on Cancer. We need to find out if Monsanto or the Environmental Protection Agency misled the public.” “Reports suggest that a senior official at the EPA worked to suppress a U.S. Department of Health and Human Services review of glyphosate, and may have leaked information to Monsanto. I believe that a Department of Justice investigation is warranted to look into any potential misconduct by employees of the EPA. I also believe a congressional hearing is immediately warranted.” ###
03.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON: Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) – along with 11 fellow Members of Congress – has sent a letter to House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes asking him to consider reforming FISA’s controversial Section 702 to help ensure that the activities of United States intelligence agencies do not violate the constitutional rights of the American people. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and his Congressional colleagues write: “Since its inception, FISA’s Section 702 has too often been used as a vehicle to engage in activities violating the Fourth Amendment rights of Americans. As you are well aware, Section 702 authority will expire at the end of the current year. We strongly believe that it should not be reauthorized without significant reforms to protect the constitutional rights of American citizens…We urge you to join us in reforming the law to ensure that the activities of our intelligence agencies do not violate our constitutional rights.” FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE. ###
03.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) and Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) led 52 Members of Congress in sending a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson urging him to use all diplomatic tools to help open the Yemeni port of Hodeida to international humanitarian aid organizations to allow them to deliver critical food, fuel and medicine into northern Yemen. According to reports, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and other aid organizations have had to halt aid deliveries in the absence of security guarantees from the U.S.-backed, Saudi-led Coalition, which is currently engaged in air raids in the vicinity of the port. Yemen is currently on the “brink of famine,” with nearly a half million children severely acutely malnourished and more than 7.3 million people in need of urgent food assistance. Excerpts from the Letter: “The Washington Post reports that ‘Hundreds of thousands of Yemeni children … are nearing starvation.’ Airstrikes by the Saudi-led Coalition (‘Coalition’) in Hodeida, the main entry point for food, medicine and humanitarian aid into northern Yemen, have made it virtually impossible for humanitarian agencies to deliver supplies. The UN and international aid agencies says that Yemen is ‘on the brink of famine.’ Half a million children are severely acutely malnourished. More than 7.3 million people are in need of urgent food assistance.” “The ultimate resolution to Yemen’s civil war must be diplomatic, and the U.S. should be encouraging the warring parties to return to the negotiating table. But right now, the U.S. must act urgently to avert famine and employ our diplomatic clout with the Coalition members to ensure that humanitarian goods can get into the port of Hodeida. The lives of hundreds of thousands of children are at stake.” FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE. ###
03.09.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – In the aftermath of misleading information put forth by Attorney General Jeff Sessions concerning his interaction with Russian operatives, and following a steady stream of troubling revelations related to possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia during last year’s presidential election, Rep. Hakeem Jeffries and Rep. Ted W. Lieu have introduced a resolution of inquiry that could compel the Administration to publicly disclose information to Congress and the American people. The bill calls for President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to submit to Congress any documents that could connect the Trump campaign with the Russian effort to compromise our Democracy. It states that they must reveal “Any meeting or communication between any formal or informal advisor, affiliate, or employee of Donald Trump, his campaign or transition team, and any individual or entity representing the interests of Russia or individuals with interests involving Russia.” Rep. Jeffries said: “Jeff Sessions either lied to Congress under oath or provided inaccurate information. Either way, he broke the law. The American people deserve to know why the nation’s Attorney General and all of the president’s men were in frequent contact with Russian operatives during the election. It’s time for House Republicans to put country over party. Something stinks at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. We are determined to find out if the rot goes all the way to the top.” Rep. Ted Lieu said: "For the good of our Republic, there must be a full accounting of any and all ties between Russia, President Trump, his administration and his associates. Russia waged an unprecedented, robust, covert effort to alter the outcome of our nation's 2016 election. The importance of fully understanding if Team Trump colluded with Russia cannot be overstated. This resolution seeks the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth when it comes to the issue of Trump and Russia. I am honored to introduce this resolution with Congressman Jeffries. The American people have an absolute right to know the truth about Trump and his team's ties to Russia now." Seventeen different intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia interfered with our election to help Donald Trump win the presidency. It now appears possible that Jeff Sessions, the nation’s top law enforcement officer, may have been involved with this insidious foreign interference campaign. The House of Representatives is the institution closest to the people by constitutional design. As such, the House must protect the integrity of our democracy. The resolution of inquiry is a meaningful step in that direction. THE FULL TEXT OF THE RESOLUTION CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
03.09.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding news that U.S. ground troops are being deployed to fight in Syria. “The deployment of conventional U.S. ground troops to fight in Syria is a highly disturbing escalation of our military entanglement in a faraway country. While President Trump says stuff that makes you think he may be isolationist, his actions in Syria resemble those of a war monger.” “Putting our nation’s men and women in harm’s way to help assault a city in a faraway place is mission creep. It also violates the current Authorization for Use of Military Force. When Congress passed the post-9/11 AUMF to fight Al Qaeda terrorists, it never had the intention of authorizing ground forces to help take over a city in the middle of Syria's civil war in 2017.” “Today’s news also underscores the troubling fact that the President has yet to articulate a strategy or endgame for Syria. Americans are left wondering how long our service members will be deployed in a conflict zone, what will happen if they come into conflict with Russian forces operating in the region, what our Administration plans to do with Raqqa after retaking the city, and how this all fits in with our national interests. The President owes it to the American people to speak to these questions. As a veteran and a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I will continue to demand answers.” ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued a statement upon introduction of the No Money Bail Act of 2017, a bail reform bill that seeks to eliminate the use of money bail. No one should be held in jail solely because of the inability to pay bail. More than 2.3 million people are incarcerated in America, of which 450,000 individuals have never been convicted of a crime and are often detained because they cannot afford to pay bail. Mr. Lieu’s No Money Bail Act ends the money bail system because America should not be a country where freedom is based on income. “America’s criminal justice system isn’t just broken; it violates our nation’s core values. We cannot be a nation that believes in freedom and equal justice under the law, yet at the same time, locks up thousands of people solely because they cannot afford bail. We cannot be a nation that believes in the principle of innocent until proven guilty, yet incarcerates over 450,000 Americans who have not been convicted of any crime. Throughout the United States, those with money can buy their freedom while poor defendants languish behind bars awaiting trial. The fact that many Americans decide to plead guilty purely to get out of jail because they cannot afford bail is intolerable. Justice should not be bought and paid for in the United States. We are a much better nation than that.” Mr. Lieu will also be debating solutions to fix America’s broken bail system at tomorrow’s Pretrial Justice Institute’s Innovators Convention.EVENT DETAILS WHAT: Policy Debate on Money Bail and Pretrial JusticePretrial Justice Institute’s Innovators Convention WHO: Congressman Ted Lieu, (D, CA)Marc Levin, Policy Director of Right on Crime WHEN: Thursday, March 9, 2017 from 9am to 10:30 am ET WHERE: Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center 201 Waterfront Street, National Harbor, MD 20745 The event will also be live-streamed at Pretrial Justice Institute’s Facebook Page at 9am ET ###
03.07.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to the recently released House Republican bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “Yesterday, House Republicans finally released the text of their super-secret bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Now we know why they tried so hard to hide it from not only House Democrats, but also our Senate colleagues and the American people.” “The bottom line is that TrumpCare is an irresponsible Republican proposal that will force most Americans to pay more for less coverage so the wealthy can get a massive tax break. Middle-class Americans will see out-of-pocket costs increase, 20 million Americans may lose their health insurance, and Medicaid will ration care, all so the top 0.1% of earners can save nearly $200,000 each on their taxes. As a result, Republicans continue to cause chaos and uncertainty in the health insurance industry and will ultimately be responsible for destroying coverage for over 156 million Americans.” “In an effort to fast-track and pass this monstrosity, House Republicans have allowed for no committee meetings, mark-ups, hearings, expert testimonies, or input into how this bill will affect the cost, coverage, and access to health care. The GOP, the self-proclaimed party of fiscal responsibility, won’t even wait for the Congressional Budget Office to analyze and score the bill’s impact on our budget.” “For all the complaining congressional Republicans did over the past seven years about ACA, one would think they would have developed a more robust replacement plan. America deserves better.” ###
03.07.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to reports that WikiLeaks released a trove of documents describing the CIA’s hacking tools: “WikiLeaks’ alleged release of thousands of documents describing the CIA’s hacking capabilities is of monumental concern. The group claims the CIA managed to bypass encryption on secure messaging apps like WhatsApp and Signal and developed code to turn cellphones, computers, and televisions into listening devices. Now WikiLeaks is threatening to release that code to the public. The potential privacy concerns are mind-boggling.” “As a computer science major, I am deeply disturbed by the allegation that the CIA lost its arsenal of hacking tools. The ramifications could be devastating. I am calling for an immediate congressional investigation. We need to know if the CIA lost control of its hacking tools, who may have those tools, and how do we now protect the privacy of Americans." ###
03.06.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to President Trump signing his second executive order to ban Muslims and refugees from entering the United States: “25 days after his first unconstitutional immigration ban was rejected by the courts, Donald Trump has signed a new executive order that is – once again – as harmful as it is incompetent. This monumental waste of federal resources is wrong on all levels – strategically, morally, and from a national security perspective.” “Trump’s Muslim Ban 2.0 is nothing short of a strategic failure. A leaked DHS report from his own cabinet called citizenship from the banned countries an unreliable indicator of threat. If the banned countries in question are such a threat, then why does this second Muslim ban arbitrarily drop the nation of Iraq? And why does the ban go into effect on March 16th? Where’s the urgency in that? This second executive order just makes zero sense.” “As studied by the CATO Institute, the chances of being killed by a refugee committing a terrorist act is 1 in 3.6 billion. For perspective, the chances of being struck by lightning twice is 1 in 9 million. That’s why members of Trump’s own administration recognize that banning women and children fleeing from terrorist groups isn’t just morally bankrupt—it’s bad for national security. It hands our real enemies like ISIL and al-Qaeda a powerful recruiting tool and undermines our relationships with partners abroad.” “Trump is quick to tweet about who is American and who is un-American. As an immigrant, veteran, and member of Congress, I can tell you there is nothing more un-American than undermining our fundamental value of accepting those who are fleeing tyranny, those who want to start a better life in the United States. This order is based on bigotry and must – once again – be opposed.” ###
03.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the White House’s call for an investigation into President Trump’s claims that Trump Tower was wiretapped in 2016. “Bring it on.” “I fully support the White House’s request for Congressional investigations into President Trump’s explosive claim that Trump Tower was wiretapped. If the claim is true, such a wiretap would mean that an independent FISA Court Judge—appointed by Supreme Court Chief Justice Roberts—reviewed evidence and found probable cause there were agents of a foreign power at Trump Tower.” “The American people need to know if Donald Trump or his associates colluded with the Russian government during the election last year. A special prosecutor is clearly needed to immediately review what was learned from any possible wiretaps and any other potential evidence of collusion between Team Trump, Vladimir Putin and his agents. If the wiretapping claim is true, then Congress also needs to investigate if President Trump violated laws related to the leaking of classified information when he disclosed the existence of a secret wiretap via his Twitter account.” “President Trump’s wiretapping claim points to a serious counterintelligence investigation of him and/or his associates. The multiple lies by Trump and his associates denying contacts with the Russians; the making of a false statement by Attorney General Sessions under oath to Congress about his Russian contacts; and now the explosive revelation of a potential wiretap at Trump Tower suggests that we could be looking at a situation far worse than Watergate.” ###
03.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MEDIA ADVISORY: CONGRESSMAN LIEU TO HOST CONSTITUENT UPDATE EVENT ON FACEBOOK LIVE WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, March 7, 2017, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) will host a Facebook Live video stream to update constituents of California’s 33rd congressional district and answer questions on the current state of our country. WHO Congressman Ted Lieu (D-CA-33) WHAT Congressional Update with Congressman Ted Lieu on Facebook Live WHEREwww.facebook.com/RepTedLieu WHEN Tuesday, March 7, 2017 Starting at 7:30 PM ET/4:30PM PT ###
03.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE REP. TED LIEU: ATTORNEY GENERAL SESSIONS MUST RESIGN IMMEDIATELYMr. Lieu also calls for two special prosecutors to investigate Sessions and Trump Administration ties to Russia Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions made false statements about interactions with Russian officials during his confirmation hearings: “America, we have a problem. In less than two months, two senior Trump Administration officials have been caught red-handed making false statements about their contacts with high-ranking officials of the Russian Government. The duplicity on the part of Mike Flynn and now on the part of Attorney General Sessions underscores the absolute necessity for independent investigations. I call for the immediate appointment of two special prosecutors. One to investigate all Trump Administration ties to Russia and the second prosecutor to investigate Sessions for perjury.” “Lying to Congress by an Executive Branch official is so serious that there's a specific law criminalizing it, 18 U.S.C. 1001. Moreover, a massive trust gap now exists between the American people and the top law enforcement officer of the United States.” “In order for Congress to provide essential oversight of the Executive Branch, we must have faith that the testimony we receive from government officials is true. Sessions lied to Congress under oath during his confirmation hearing when he said, ‘I did not have communications with the Russians.’ As a Member of the House Judiciary Committee with oversight over the Department of Justice, I can no longer trust our Attorney General. Jeff Sessions must tender his resignation immediately." ###
02.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWashington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding Republicans on the House Judiciary committee rejecting a resolution of inquiry (H. Res 111) introduced by Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY). The resolution directs the Department of Justice to provide the House of Representatives with information relevant to President Trump’s conflicts of interest, his potential violations of the Foreign Emoluments Clause, and ties between his advisors and the Russian regime. The full text of the Resolution of Inquiry can be found here. "I am disheartened that House Republicans would oppose efforts to bring transparency to the Trump Administration’s ties to Russia and business conflicts. In the past few weeks, we’ve heard of questionable interactions between Administration officials and Russian agents, yet congressional Republicans have refused to take any concrete effort to learn more about the connections. Moreover, the President has failed to adequately remove himself from his business, going so far as to host official events at his hotel. Still, Republicans have turned a blind eye to these clear conflicts of interest.” “The American people deserve to know the truth. We also deserve elected officials who don't shrink from their responsibilities as the people’s representatives, but do everything they can to put the interests of Americans first. Today’s debate – or lack thereof – suggests the contrary from my Republican colleagues." ###
02.23.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Yesterday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) held a meeting of the Elected Officials Council on Veterans, a regional council he created of non-partisan leaders from local, state and federal governments who are dedicated to improving service delivery for Veterans at the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center. This meeting focused on the progress that has been made to develop permanent-supportive housing and wraparound services to house and serve homeless veterans in Southern California. Today, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement regarding the meeting of the Elected Officials Council on Veterans: “Yesterday’s meeting of the Elected Officials Council on Veterans brought together elected leaders from all levels of government who have an interest in serving Veterans in our region. This meeting provided a progress report on development of immediate and long-term housing options to house homeless Veterans at the West Los Angeles VA campus.” “The report from the Department of Veterans Affairs showed that progress has been made to house homeless Veterans in recently retrofitted buildings on the VA campus and the VA is making strides towards implementing a Master Plan which will develop 1,200 units of Permanent Supportive Housing throughout the property.” “The development of housing on the VA campus was made possible by legislation I authored (H.R. 3484) to authorize the VA to enter into public-private agreements to develop permanent supportive and temporary housing for traumatized, disabled, and homeless Veterans. Along with two bills (H.R. 1543 and H.R. 4334) I passed to retrofit vacant buildings on the campus and another (H.R. 2934) to reauthorize the VA’s Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans, we are driving the VA’s work to address Veteran homelessness in Los Angeles and nationally.” “I want to thank Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) who has been leader in Congress fighting to end Veteran homelessness. I would also like to thank Beverly Hills Mayor John Mirisch and the Beverly Hills City Council for hosting this meeting of the Elected Officials Council on Veterans.” “I am proud to work with federal, state, county and local leaders on this council to ensure that this Master Plan best serves the needs of our Veterans. Working together with the Department of Veterans Affairs, the community and regional stakeholders, we can end homelessness for Veterans in Los Angeles and create a model for tackling this issue nationwide.” ###
02.23.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Los Angeles – Congressman Ted W. Lieu issued the following statement regarding the recent bomb threats to Jewish Community Centers and the increase in anti-Semitic acts across the nation: “Anti-Semitism is insidious and intolerable. I find it unfortunate that President Trump took so long to acknowledge these facts given the number of recent hateful, Anti-Semitic acts perpetrated around our nation. Those committing these hate crimes must be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. This continues a disturbing pattern from the Trump White House, which recently put out a statement on Holocaust Remembrance Day that did not mention the Jewish people and continues to employ Steve Bannon as Chief Strategist. Mr. Bannon used to run an organization that engaged in on-the-record Anti-Semitic hate speech.” “Jewish Americans – all Americans – deserve this from the White House: an exponentially more thoughtful, proactive commitment to combating Anti-Semitism in all forms. Anti-Semitism has no place in our great nation.” ###
02.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced its withdrawal of President Obama’s 2016 guidance to ensure transgender students have equal access to schools and school facilities. This guidance formalized over a decade of court decisions that found that Title IX and other sex discrimination laws included protections for transgender people. Among other school groups, it was supported by the American School Counselors Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, National Association of Elementary School Principals, and the American Association of Secondary School Principals. “President Trump striking down crucial protections for transgender students is cruel and unacceptable. This guidance, implemented by President Obama, ensured that schools understood their obligation to provide equal access to school facilities for transgender students. Like all children, transgender kids just want to be safe and happy in school. President Trump clearly has no interest in protecting the rights of the transgender, lesbian, gay and bisexual community. His actions today are heartless and will be harmful to many young Americans who should be cherished and protected, not victimized and insulted.” ###
02.18.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to the explosion and fire at Torrance Refinery. "Exactly two years ago, an explosion at the Torrance Refinery nearly resulted in a catastrophic disaster that would have released deadly modified hydrofluoric acid (MHF) into the surrounding South Bay communities. It was an Act of God that helped prevent an 80,000 pound piece of equipment from striking and rupturing a MHF tank, which could have resulted in over 100,000 deaths or injuries. On the anniversary of that explosion, we get another explosion and a fire. It is completely unacceptable to have deadly MHF at failing refineries." "Congresswoman Maxine Waters and I requested the U.S. Chemical Safety Board to investigate the explosion two years ago. They have not yet completed their final investigation and I will be asking the Chemical Safety Board to include today's fire and explosion as part of their investigation." "I commend the South Coast AQMD for its recent proposal to phase out deadly MHF at refineries in Southern California. I urge SCAQMD to act with urgency. Refineries are not supposed to have explosions. We need to ban MHF as soon as possible. God may not warn us again." ###
02.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. LIEU LISTED ON THE HILL’S “16 PEOPLE TO WATCH IN TECH” Online at The Hill, Mr. Lieu is named one of sixteen people to watch in tech “Rep. Ted Lieu, 47, is one of only four House members with computer science degrees. The California Democrat is also a colonel in the Air Force reserves and a prominent voice on technology and cybersecurity.” “Lieu has been most noted as an opponent of weakening encryption but has also weighed in on mobile device security and how medical institutions should respond to ransomware.” “As a kid, I remember my first computer was an Apple II, and it was the coolest thing in the universe,” Lieu told The Hill. “The folks who went through technology when they were young and still use it now have a different view of tech policy than those who are just beginning to see its advantages and disadvantages.” ***The Full Text of THE HILL piece can be found HERE. ***
02.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) led a letter sent to House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings requesting that the Committee hold hearings on troubling reports of President Trump jeopardizing national security by using an unsecure Android smartphone and disregarding commonsense cybersecurity best practices. Mr. Lieu has emerged as a leading voice on cybersecurity and was featured on 60 Minutes last year to discuss serious mobile security vulnerabilities. EXCERPTS FROM THE LETTER: “Referring to the complex problem of cybersecurity, President Trump recently said in an interview, “I’m not sure you have the kind of security that you need.” We fully agree—which is why we are writing to request that the House Oversight and Government Reform Committedly hold a hearing into troubling reports that the President is jeopardizing national security by egregiously failing to implement commonsense security measures across the board, from using an insecure, consumer-grade Android smartphone to discussing nuclear strategy openly in a dining room at his Mar-a-Lago Club in Florida.” “Cybersecurity experts universally agree that an ordinary Android smartphone, which the President is reportedly using despite repeated warnings from the Secret Service, can be easily hacked.” “This behavior is more than bad operational security—it is an egregious affront to national security.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
02.16.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement to stand in solidarity with those participating in today’s national “Day Without Immigrants” protest. “The United States’ story is a chronicle of the successes of immigrants. These are the successes of iconic figures, like Madeleine Albright and John Muir, but also those of our neighbors and friends who are our doctors, laborers, teachers, and caregivers. As an immigrant myself, I am proud to stand in solidarity with everyone participating in the “A Day Without Immigrants” protest. I know firsthand that America is a great nation because it welcomes people of different backgrounds to come together to better themselves and society. The success of the United States is closely intertwined with the contributions of immigrants. I am certain that as long as we remain a welcoming nation, we’ll continue to be great.” ###
02.16.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s press conference today. “The press conference by President Trump*** today reminded me of a fine-tuned machine.” ***In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump - as of January 20, 2017 - is in violation of the Emoluments Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. Trump and his press secretary also routinely make stuff up. ###
02.16.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congressman Don Beyer (D | Virginia) released a resource guide for federal employees who wish to break the Administration’s communications blackout on federal agencies. The guide explains how to safely and responsibly share information, and encourages employees to "Know Your Rights" and "Know Your Options." In the "Know Your Rights" section, federal employees can learn about which federal laws apply to them. In the "Know Your Options" section, employees can learn about how to safely disseminate information to agency inspectors general and the press. The resource guide also includes links to an in-depth list of federal whistleblower statutes and information about agency inspectors general. STATEMENT FROM REP. LIEU: “We believe the American people have a right to know how their government works. The Trump administration has strapped a muzzle on federal agencies and attacked legitimate whistleblowers. Should federal employees wish to break that silence, we want this to be a resource for the safe and responsible disclosure of information." STATEMENT FROM REP. BEYER: “From day one the Trump Administration and its allies in Congress have treated the federal workforce like a punching bag, all while issuing hostile threats to whistleblowers and dissenters. In this age of gag orders and alternative facts, it’s important that we provide federal employees tools to ensure transparency. I look forward to working with Congressman Lieu in support of good government and federal workers.” THE RESOURCE GUIDE CAN BE DOWNLOADED & FOUND HERE ###
02.15.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the possible collusion between President Trump’s aides and Russian intelligence. “I am stunned to learn that Trump aides, including campaign manager Paul Manafort and advisor Michael Flynn, allegedly had repeated contacts with Russian Intelligence agents during the presidential campaign. It's a safe bet to say they weren't discussing the weather.” “If there was collusion between Trump aides and the Russian government, that would be a high crime. It also raises a number of critical issues. What did Trump know and when did he know it? Did Trump authorize or order the repeated contacts with Russian Intelligence during the presidential campaign? What are Trump's business holdings in Russia or Russian-controlled areas?” “I call on Republicans in both the House and the Senate to put country over party--to put America First--and work with Democrats to investigate these extremely serious allegations." ###
02.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) recommendation that the White House investigate and discipline Kellyanne Conway for violating federal regulations by promotiing Ivanka Trump’s product line. Last week, Rep. Lieu sent a letter to the Director of OGE requesting an ethics investigation into her unethical actions. “Last week I sent a letter to the Office of Government Ethics in response to Kellyanne Conway’s unethical behavior. I am pleased OGE has called on the White House to investigate and discipline Kellyanne Conway for her clear violation of ethics laws by promoting Ivanka Trump’s brand. It is not enough for the White House to state that she has been ‘counseled on that subject – and that’s it.’ The Trump Administration needs to understand that federal regulations—and normal ethical behavior—demand that the White House shall not be used for enriching or benefitting the President’s family.” ###
02.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the resignation of Michael Flynn. "Let's be clear: Michael Flynn resigned because the press brought his egregious misconduct to the attention of the American people. Our Republic depends on the Freedom of the Press. What is deeply disturbing is that the White House apparently knew for weeks from a Department of Justice report that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to blackmail, yet President Trump kept him on. Senior White House official Kellyanne Conway stated yesterday that President Trump had full confidence in Flynn. If nine US officials did not leak their concerns to the Washington Post, Michael Flynn may still be the US National Security Advisor. There is more to this story. What did President Trump know and when did he know it? What did Vice President Pence know and when did he know it? We can't have a situation where the Trump Administration takes corrective action only when the press catches them engaging in misconduct. The American people deserve answers from President Trump and Vice President Pence." ###
02.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Last week, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Administration Committee—which is responsible for modernizing House internal management and operations— to offer recommendations to better protect the House of Representatives from threats in cyberspace. Rep. Lieu proposed three actions the Committee should take to mitigate threats from an array of bad actors: 1.Recognize the vulnerability that Members’ personal devices and home networks pose to House of Representatives official business and data, and develop a plan to secure them; 2.Hold a briefing for Members in a potentially classified setting on information security threats and best practices; 3.Shorten the time-period during which new House employees are required to take information security training to within 7 days. EXCERPTS FROM THE LETTER: “As a computer science major and former active duty officer in the U.S. Air Force, I am keenly aware of the diversity of threats our country faces — whether from “hactivists” looking to expose Members’ personal information, criminals using ransomware to extort American businesses, or sophisticated foreign actors seeking to damage our nation’s critical infrastructure. Each threat targets different attack vectors, but all rely on one common vulnerability — lack of preparation.” “These measures build on the important work the Committee has done to secure our information and protect our privacy. Now more than ever, we must be proactive and adopt commonsense measures to increase consciousness surrounding these serious challenges.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
02.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement welcoming the addition of Diana Parr, a senior Brookings fellow focusing on cyber security, to his Capitol Hill office. “Diana Parr is a welcomed addition to my legislative team. She is currently a senior Brookings fellow employed by the National Security Agency (NSA) as a Cybersecurity Leader focusing on technology and policy issues. I believe Diana’s previous experience in both the public and private sector will bring much needed expertise to Congress as we look to tackle increasing cybersecurity threats both at home and abroad. As a Computer Science graduate, I am focused on technology issues facing this country including cybersecurity. I look forward to Diana’s work to help bolster our commitment to cybersecurity.” More on Diana Parr: -Intelligence community experience while working for NSA and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI). -Recently worked at the Pentagon leading an NSA team supporting DoD Cyber policy, strategy, and technical requirements. -Adjunct Instructor at the University of Maryland Baltimore County (UMBC) Cybersecurity Graduate Program. -Security Education Academic Liaison to DHS/NSA-approved National Centers of Academic Excellence focused on information assurance where she frequently speaks on government jobs in cybersecurity. -Recent speaker at Cal Poly in San Luis Obispo at Women in Cybersecurity conference (November 2016). -Frequent speaker at elementary, middle and high school events on cybersecurity. -Author of cloud computing security technical articles. -In addition to government service at NSA and ODNI, Diana worked in private industry 20 years including 4 years in Silicon Valley. ###
02.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to yesterday’s missile launch by North Korea. "North Korea's launch of yet another ballistic missile poses unacceptable risks to U.S. allies. At some point in the future, North Korea will develop an ICBM that can land on U.S. soil. We can Tweet about the North Korean missile threat or we can take concrete action to defend our nation. We need to invest in countermeasures to this pervasive threat by increasing missile defense funding and allocating more resources to developing platforms that can counter North Korea's eventual ability to strike the United States.” “Having served on active duty at the Space and Missile Systems Center--which was involved with the Airborne Laser program -- I am well aware of the ability of lasers to destroy missiles. The original Airborne Laser, which was a chemical laser mounted on a modified 747, shot down missiles during testing. Funding for the program was terminated in 2010 because the range of the laser was deemed insufficient to meet critical mission needs. However, advancements in laser technology since 2010 have produced solid-state lasers with increased strength and reduced cost and size. The Pentagon is already working on mounting lasers on drones, naval vessels and ground platforms. Congress should explore investing more in this game-changing technology so that it can be deployed against the future threats we know are coming." ###
02.10.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congressman Ruben Gallego (D | Arizona) – both of whom served on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces – issued the following statement calling for President Trump to fire General Michael Flynn. “General Michael Flynn sought to undermine the foreign policy of a sitting American President. And then he lied – repeatedly and egregiously – about his actions. Donald Trump should fire Michael Flynn immediately.” "Flynn communicated with high-ranking Russian officials both before and after a presidential election that, according to our intelligence community, Russia actively worked to influence on behalf of Donald Trump. When President Obama imposed sanctions on Russia in response to its unprecedented efforts to disrupt our democracy, Flynn made a series of phone calls to the Russian Ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, offering assurances that the incoming administration would lift these measures after Trump was sworn-in.” “General Flynn then compounded this outrageous misconduct by lying on multiple occasions about the nature of his conversations with Kislyak, claiming that sanctions had never been discussed. Not only did Flynn mislead Congress and the American people, he also apparently deceived Vice President Mike Pence, who made false statements on Flynn’s behalf in an interview with Face the Nation.” “At a minimum, Flynn recklessly violated the sacred principle that America only has one president at a time. But a compelling case can also be made that Flynn violated federal law by collaborating with foreign officials while still a private citizen.” “The American people deserve competence – not corruption – from the leaders entrusted with our national security. They deserve to be told the truth by the men and women who advise the President. And they deserve a full accounting of how and when President Trump’s advisors colluded with a foreign power that sought to alter the outcome of an American election.” “For all of these reasons, President Trump should fire General Flynn.” ###
02.09.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to the Director of the Office of Government Ethics requesting an ethics investigation into the actions of White House senior staff, Kellyanne Conway. This morning Ms. Conway publicly endorsed the Ivanka Trump fashion line, a clear violation of federal ethics law. Having served on active duty as a Judge Advocate General officer in the U.S. Air Force, Mr. Lieu worked extensively on cases specific to ethics issues of civilian and military personnel, including this very section of the Code of Federal Regulations governing federal government ethics. EXCERPTS FROM THE LETTER: “In an appearance this morning on Fox News program “Fox & Friends,” Ms. Conway made the following remarks regarding the Ivanka Trump fashion line: "Go buy Ivanka's stuff, is what I would tell you. It's a wonderful line. I own some of it. I fully -- I'm going to just, I'm going to give a free commercial here: Go buy it today, everybody. You can find it online." “Ms. Conway’s comments are a clear violation of the letter and spirit of the law. Given President Trump’s apparent view that federal ethics rules do not apply to his office, I respectfully request the Office of Government Ethics to investigate this incident. Pursuant to Title 5, Section § 2638.503 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, I urge you to immediately notify the White House of the violation of government ethics law to prompt corrective action.” ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION: According to Title 5, Section § 2638. 501 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, if the White House does not address this matter in a timely fashion after receiving a notice, “the OGE Director may use the procedures of Section § 2638.504 to issue a nonbinding recommendation of a disciplinary action or an order to terminate an ongoing violation. Nothing in this subpart relieves an agency of its primary responsibility to ensure compliance with government ethics laws and regulations.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
02.03.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement upon reintroduction of his legislation to combat the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria (superbug) outbreaks in hospitals due to tainted medical devices. H.R. 872, the Disclosure; and Encouragement of Verification, Innovation, Cleaning, and Efficiency (DEVICE) Act of 2017 increases patient safety by requiring device manufactures to notify the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) whenever they change the design or cleaning instructions of their devices. The bill also requires manufacturers to notify FDA whenever safety warnings are issued in foreign countries related to the design and cleaning of devices. Finally, the bill requires FDA to further regulate tests of medical devices to determine whether bacteria are present. “Antibiotic-resistant bacteria continues to be a major threat to public health. I am proud to reintroduce the DEVICE Act in response to superbug outbreaks occurring in hospitals across this nation. As we look to improve the health and safety of consumers and patients, especially those who are undergoing routine medical procedures with medical scopes, it’s important we do all that we can to prevent superbug outbreaks.” MR. LIEU’S EFFORTS TO COMBAT THE SPREAD OF ANTIBIOTIC-RESISTANT SUPERBUGS In 2015, in response to news of superbug infections and deaths occurring at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles and at the Ronald Regan UCLA Medical Center, Mr. Lieu called for a Congressional hearing to examine the outbreaks. Mr. Lieu sought answers from the Olympus Corporation of Americas, makers of the duodenoscopes that transmitted the deadly CRE bacteria to patients during a routine medical procedure. In the letter, he asked Olympus Corp. how they planned to prevent superbug outbreaks linked to contaminated medical scopes and about the effectiveness of their cleaning instructions. Mr. Lieu also sent letters to government agencies, including a letter to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg seeking further information and ideas on how to best prevent fatal outbreaks of antibiotic resistant bacteria and a letter to the SEC Chair Mary Jo White to investigate Olympus for fraud and violations of U.S. securities laws. In August 2016, Mr. Lieu sent a letter to Secretary John Kerry urging the State Department to request that Japanese authorities investigate and prosecute Olympus for civil or criminal misconduct in their mishandling of antibiotic-resistant bacteria infections caused by their medical devices. After a yearlong investigation that Mr. Lieu requested, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform found significant gaps in existing law that contributed to a nationwide problem of superbug outbreaks due to tainted duodenoscopes. This led to Mr. Lieu introducing two pieces of legislation, H.R. 4965, the Disclosure; and Encouragement of Verification, Innovation, Cleaning, and Efficiency (DEVICE) Act and H.R. 4966, the Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act. On February 4, 2016, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the Senate companion bill to Mr. Lieu’s H.R. 4966. It was included in Section 3059 of the 21st Century Cures Act, which was signed into law by President Barack Obama on December 13, 2016. THE TEXT OF H.R 872 CAN BE FOUND HERE H.R. 872 is supported by the American Public Health Association, Consumer's Union, MRSA Survivors Network, Society of Infectious Disease Pharmacists, Infectious Disease Society of America, and the American Gastroenterological Association Original cosponsors include Representatives Judy Chu (D-CA), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY) ###
02.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after a report that President Trump, without proper intelligence, approved a counterterrorism operation against Al-Qaeda Arabian Peninsula in Yemen over the weekend. Navy Seal William “Ryan” Owens was killed in the raid. “Navy SEAL William ‘Ryan’ Owens is an American hero. My heart goes out to Ryan’s family and friends for their loss. We can never repay their sacrifice.” “Having previously served on active duty, I am highly disturbed by reports that the American President sent our troops into harm's way without adequate intelligence or adequate ground support. Congress needs to learn more about the counterterrorism operation in Yemen that cost Ryan his life as well as the lives of at least 30 others, including 10 women and children.” “U.S. military officials have told the Reuters news organization that President Trump approved the mission in Yemen without adequate intelligence, backup preparations or ground support. This report would be disturbing, even without the context of our new President’s on-the-record hostility toward and distrust of our intelligence services, not to mention his documented reticence to receive intelligence briefings at all.” “Given this context, the lingering questions surrounding the Yemen mission are deeply troubling and they demand answers. I have requested a briefing on this counterterrorism operation from the Department of Defense.” ###
01.31.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the upcoming full Senate confirmation vote for Betsy DeVos as Secretary of the Department of Education. The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions has approved DeVos’ confirmation by a party line vote. “Donald Trump*** has nominated many individuals for the Cabinet that I oppose based on their extreme views. He has also nominated a person who fits an even more disturbing category, one known as lack of basic competence. In addition to her extreme views, Betsy DeVos is simply not competent to serve as Education Secretary. She has not attended or worked in public schools and it appears has made no attempt to learn about America’s public education system. As we discovered during her confirmation hearing, DeVos doesn’t know that disabled students are protected under federal law, nor does she understand the difference between proficiency and growth. It’s astonishing and downright scary how little DeVos understands about education policy and the issues facing teachers, administrators, parents and students today.” “The public education system is a public good. My two children go to public school. Every single one of us benefits from living in an educated society, but DeVos has shown no appreciation for this fact. Anyone who cares about providing a quality education to American kids should unequivocally oppose Betsy DeVos’ nomination.” ***In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump - as of January 20, 2017 - is in violation of the Emoluments Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. Trump and his press secretary also routinely make stuff up. ###
01.27.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s*** executive order making it more difficult for refugees to enter the United States based on their religion or religious heritage: “Today’s executive order by President Trump using extreme vetting and banning refugees from many majority Muslim countries is offensive and a monumental waste of federal resources. Having served on active duty, we are taught that to defeat the enemy, we first need to know our enemy. Our enemies are terrorist groups such as ISIS and AL Qaeda, not children, women and senior citizens fleeing those groups.” “The chances of being struck by lightning TWICE is 1 in 9 million. The chances of being killed by a refugee committing a terrorist act is 1 in 3.6 billion. These facts lead me to conclude that Trump's action is not based on national security, it is based on bigotry. Lady Liberty is crying." ###
01.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s actions on national security policy during his first week in office. "If there was still any doubt as to whether President Donald Trump*** had the temperament and positions to lead America as our Commander-in-Chief, let his first week in office be our answer. As a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee--and as an American--I am horrified at the behavior of the American President.” “Trump has done silly, bizarre things that don't really matter, such as repeatedly lying to the American people about the crowd size at his relatively small inauguration. But he has also taken actions that deeply matter and harmed American interests, particularly in the area of foreign affairs. His go-it-alone approach is making America more isolated and increasing risks to our deployed personnel.” “Trump’s alternative-reality-based belief that Mexico will pay for his Wall of Hate has deeply antagonized our close ally and neighbor Mexico and caused the Mexican President to cancel his meeting with the American President.” “Trump’s wild and destabilizing statement that NATO is obsolete will further incentive Russian aggression and push our close European allies to start pulling away from the United States.” “Trump’s statement advocating for war crimes by stating we should steal Iraq’s oil not only offends a critical partner, but it puts American service members at risk by fostering the perception abroad that our forces are deployed to pillage local resources.” “Trump’s statement in his first TV interview as president supporting a return to torture policies is a dangerous recruiting tool for terrorists and again endangers our men and women in uniform.” “And now, in protest of Trump’s actions to undermine U.S. national security, the entire senior management team of the United States State Department has resigned en masse.” “We tried a Shoot-First-Ask-Questions-Later foreign policy under George W. Bush. How did that work out? In less than one week in office, Trump has already made America Weaker. I pray his behavior will change or, alternatively, that rational and good people in his own party and his Administration start standing up to his crazy behavior and statements." ***In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump - as of January 20, 2017 - is in violation of the Emoluments Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. Trump and his press secretary also routinely make stuff up. ###
01.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding former U.S. Congressman Xavier Becerra’s confirmation as California’s new Attorney General. “I have had the pleasure of knowing and working with Xavier Becerra for many years. I know he will make an exceptional Attorney General for California and I commend my former colleagues in the State Senate for confirming him. At a time when cherished Californian values – cherished American values – are under attack, I know Xavier Becerra stands ready to protect our environment and to defend policies on everything from immigration to health care to public safety that make our state more vibrant, more inclusive and more just. Governor Brown could not have made a better choice for Attorney General and I look forward to working with Xavier to move California – to move America – forward." ###
01.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s call for an investigation into voter fraud during the 2016 Presidential election. “President Trump*** once again appears to be living in an alternative universe. He continues to believe that millions of people voted illegally in last November’s election despite the fact that there is zero evidence to support this wild claim. He has now called for a major investigation into voter fraud during the 2016 Presidential election. I say: BRING IT ON. I look forward to reviewing the outcome of this investigation. I will bet a nice bottle of California wine that the Administration will be unable to find a credible witness to testify under oath to the allegation that 3-5 million people illegally cast votes in 2016.” “While millions of Americans remain focused on critical issues such as job security and health care, President Trump maintains his unhealthy obsession with the fact that he lost the popular vote by making baseless accusations of voter fraud and excuses about the small crowd size at his Inauguration. Rational Republicans, such as Speaker Ryan and Senator Lindsey Graham, have said there is no evidence to support President Trump’s alternate reality-based claims. We cannot let stupid actions and false statements that Trump makes to protect his fragile ego result in policies and false narratives that undermine our democracy or restrict voting rights.” ***In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump - as of January 20, 2017 - is in violation of the Emoluments Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. Trump and his press secretary also routinely make stuff up. ###
01.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the news that President Trump*** is set to issue an executive order to enable the construction of a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. “On day six of the alternative-fact-based Administration, President Trump*** continues to dwell in a small, sad, dangerous alternate reality. At least with President Bush we had compassionate conservatism. Under Trump it is becoming crazy conservatism.” “On the complex issue of immigration, Trump believes that a huge, astronomically expensive wall on the US-Mexico border can solve problems that don't exist: that millions of 'illegals' voted in this past election and that millions more are streaming across the border. The truth is that alleged voter fraud is at around .0004% and net migration from Mexico has been negative since 2008.” “These are serious times that call for serious solutions. Yes, border security is a crucial pillar of comprehensive immigration reform but a huge wall won't make us any safer, morally upright, reduce the deficit or energize our economy.” “We need reform that provides real border security, unites families, protects American workers and offers an earned pathway to citizenship - something that Democrats and I will continue to champion in face of the crazy conservatism of Trump world." ***In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump - as of January 20, 2017 - is in violation of the Emoluments Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. ###
01.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the House Republican Majority’s vote on H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017.“Today, just two days after the 44th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court ruling that protects the rights of women to control their own bodies, House Republicans have once again taken up a vote attacking the constitutionally-protected reproductive rights of women all across the nation.” “As if this past weekend’s Women’s March on Washington (which was far more attended than President Trump’s*** own inauguration) didn’t signal anything to our elected leaders, President Trump took the GOP’s war on women’s rights and health a step further by signing an executive order reinstating the ‘global gag rule’ and blocking foreign aid for international non-governmental organizations that provide basic reproductive health services globally. This decision not only increases abortion rates, it will cause more maternal complications, injuries, and unintended pregnancies and provide less information on HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment programs worldwide.” “Republicans continue their shameful, radical assault on women’s reproductive health with today’s vote on H.R. 7, a discriminatory bill that among other things would prohibit the use of federal funds to pay for any abortion services. Despite the fact that current law already requires that federal funds not be spent on abortions, this bill would prohibit individuals and small businesses from claiming tax credits for any private insurance plans obtained through the ACA Marketplace that include abortion coverage. Families buying their insurance in the Marketplace would also be ineligible to receive a premium tax credits if they enrolled in a health plan that covers abortion, likely resulting in no abortion coverage policies being offered in the Marketplaces. Furthermore, it undermines the District of Columbia’s home rule, which allows D.C. to use its own Medicaid funds to offer abortion services. This is despite the fact that 17 states, including California, are currently allowed to do so.” “Women should be able to make their own decisions about reproductive health care with dignity and respect, without the interference of politicians or their employers. We should not be in the business of telling women what they can and cannot do with their own bodies. Today’s vote is just another step forward in the Republican party’s plan to Make America Sick Again and take away the comprehensive care women deserve.” ***In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump - as of January 20, 2017 - is in violation of the Emoluments Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. ###
01.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) introduced the Security and Privacy in Your Car Study Act of 2017, a.k.a. The SPY Car Study Act. Mr. Lieu is the Democratic lead on legislation that would require the National Highway Safety Transportation Commission to conduct a 1-year study, consulting with the Federal Trade Commission, National Institutes of Standards and Technology, the Department of Defense, industry leaders, and higher education institutions to recommend a framework for regulating automotive software safety (e.g. diagnostic systems, navigation, and entertainment systems), cybersecurity, and privacy regulations. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) is the Republican sponsor of the legislation. Upon introduction of this legislation, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: “Every American has a right to drive cars that are safe and secure. Cars don’t necessarily come to mind when most of us think about cybersecurity. But the Internet of Things (IoT) is bringing technology and connectivity into every part of our lives—including our motor vehicles. Without good cyber hygiene, a hacker could easily turn a car into a weapon. The SPY Car Study Act builds on important work undertaken by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration by emphasizing the protection of users’ personal data, and developing clear timelines for implementing these standards. We need to know that our navigation, entertainment, and operating systems are safe—and that our data is kept private. We must be proactive about our privacy and security, now more than ever.” Upon introduction of this legislation, Mr. Wilson issued the following statement: “Cyber threats have the potential to threaten the safety of American families. In the past few months, we’ve seen widespread reports of how cyber vulnerabilities in vehicles allow hackers to access a vehicle and take control from the driver. The SPY Car Study Act leverages the strength of public-private partnerships to responsibly assess cyber risks and privacy concerns within personal vehicles. By conducting a thorough study of isolation measures, detection protocol, and other best practices, we can bring industry, advocates, and government together to encourage innovation while ensuring consumer protection.” ###
01.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the news that President Trump has banned employees of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from posting on social media and speaking to the press. “Today President Trump*** banned EPA employees from posting on social media and speaking to the press. This is a move straight out of Orwell’s 1984. Iconic American innovation and discovery have been founded on science and intellectual inquiry. It’s bad enough that Trump – who had an Inauguration size smaller than Obama and Carter – denies the irrefutable facts of climate change, but it is downright perilous to American democracy to restrict access to a free and open exchange of ideas. The work by the EPA is a vanguard against environmental and public health ruin. We are witnessing an American tragedy when the American President tries to suppress the truth on climate change by waging war on the free press. Vladimir Putin would be proud of President Trump today.” ***In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump - as of January 20, 2017 - is in violation of the Emoluments Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. ###
01.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Massachusetts) introduced H.R. 669 and S. 200, the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2017. This legislation would prohibit the President from launching a nuclear first strike without a declaration of war by Congress. The crucial issue of nuclear “first use” is more urgent than ever now that President Donald Trump has the power to launch a nuclear war at a moment’s notice. Upon introduction of this legislation, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: “It is a frightening reality that the U.S. now has a Commander-in-Chief who has demonstrated ignorance of the nuclear triad, stated his desire to be ‘unpredictable’ with nuclear weapons, and as President-elect was making sweeping statements about U.S. nuclear policy over Twitter. Congress must act to preserve global stability by restricting the circumstances under which the U.S. would be the first nation to use a nuclear weapon. Our Founders created a system of checks and balances, and it is essential for that standard to be applied to the potentially civilization-ending threat of nuclear war. I am proud to introduce the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2017 with Sen. Markey to realign our nation’s nuclear weapons launch policy with the Constitution and work towards a safer world.” Upon introduction of this legislation, Senator Markey issued the following statement: “Nuclear war poses the gravest risk to human survival. Yet, President Trump has suggested that he would consider launching nuclear attacks against terrorists. Unfortunately, by maintaining the option of using nuclear weapons first in a conflict, U.S. policy provides him with that power. In a crisis with another nuclear-armed country, this policy drastically increases the risk of unintended nuclear escalation. Neither President Trump, nor any other president, should be allowed to use nuclear weapons except in response to a nuclear attack. By restricting the first use of nuclear weapons, this legislation enshrines that simple principle into law. I thank Rep. Lieu for his partnership on this common-sense bill during this critical time in our nation’s history.” Support for the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2017: William J. Perry, Former Secretary of Defense – “During my period as Secretary of Defense, I never confronted a situation, or could even imagine a situation, in which I would recommend that the President make a first strike with nuclear weapons—understanding that such an action, whatever the provocation, would likely bring about the end of civilization. I believe that the legislation proposed by Congressman Lieu and Senator Markey recognizes that terrible reality. Certainly a decision that momentous for all of civilization should have the kind of checks and balances on Executive powers called for by our Constitution.” Tom Z. Collina, Policy Director of Ploughshares Fund – “President Trump now has the keys to the nuclear arsenal, the most deadly killing machine ever created. Within minutes, President Trump could unleash up to 1,000 nuclear weapons, each one many times more powerful than the Hiroshima bomb. Yet Congress has no voice in the most important decision the United States government can make. As it stands now, Congress has a larger role in deciding on the number of military bands than in preventing nuclear catastrophe.” Derek Johnson, Executive Director of Global Zero – “One modern nuclear weapon is more destructive than all of the bombs detonated in World War II combined. Yet there is no check on a president’s ability to launch the thousands of nuclear weapons at his command. In the wake of the election, the American people are more concerned than ever about the terrible prospect of nuclear war — and what the next commander-in-chief will do with the proverbial ‘red button.’ That such devastating power is concentrated in one person is an affront to our democracy's founding principles. The proposed legislation is an important first step to reining in this autocratic system and making the world safer from a nuclear catastrophe.” Megan Amundson, Executive Director of Women’s Action for New Directions (WAND) – “Rep. Lieu and Sen. Markey have rightly called out the dangers of only one person having his or her finger on the nuclear button. The potential misuse of this power in the current global climate has only magnified this concern. It is time to make real progress toward lowering the risk that nuclear weapons are ever used again, and this legislation is a good start.” Jeff Carter, Executive Director of Physicians for Social Responsibility – "Nuclear weapons pose an unacceptable risk to our national security. Even a “limited” use of nuclear weapons would cause catastrophic climate disruption around the world, including here in the United States. They are simply too profoundly dangerous for one person to be trusted with the power to introduce them into a conflict. Grounded in the fundamental constitutional provision that only Congress has the power to declare war, the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2017 is a wise and necessary step to lessen the chance these weapons will ever be used.” Diane Randall, Executive Secretary of the Friends Committee on National Legislation (Quakers) – “Restricting first-use of nuclear weapons is an urgent priority. Congress should support the Markey-Lieu legislation.” The Arms Control Association – “The Arms Control Association applauds Sen. Ed Markey (D-MA) and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA) for reintroducing legislation to highlight the unconstrained and undemocratic ability of the president to initiate the first-use of U.S. nuclear weapons.… The inauguration of President Donald Trump has heightened fears about the sole authority of the commander in chief to use nuclear weapons. Both Republicans and Democrats have expressed deep concern about his erratic behavior and loose talk on nuclear weapons. Now is the time to put responsible checks on the use of nuclear weapons in place. Such a decision is far too important to be left in the hands of one person.” ###
01.23.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Los Angeles -- Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has issued the following statement on President Trump’s continual violation of Article 1, Section 9 of the Constitution of the United States of America. Today, a group of former White House ethics lawyers and Supreme Court litigators are launching a lawsuit alleging that Trump is in violation of the Constitution by allowing his hotel and other businesses to accept payments from foreign governments. "The second after Donald Trump took the oath of office, he violated the Constitution and continues to do so. The Framers wrote Article 1, Section 9 of the Constitution to prevent foreign influence over our elected officials. It mandates that no person holding office ‘shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever from any King, Prince, or foreign State.’ While holding office, Mr. Trump will receive—by virtue of his continued interest in the vast and global Trump Organization and his stake in hundreds of other entities—a steady stream of monetary and other benefits from foreign powers and their agents. This is illegal.” “Trump can stop his illegal behavior by divesting his global business interests or putting them into blind trusts. He refuses to do so. Not only is he violating the law, he is explicitly putting his financial interests and those of his family above the interests of America. Trump is not making America First, he is making America Second.” “As a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, I will do everything I can to hold Trump accountable. My first action is the creation of a Cloud of Illegitimacy Clock that keeps track of the seconds, minutes, hours, and days that Trump is operating outside of the law. (Click here to access the Illegitimacy Clock.) At some point, the Clock is going to catch up to Trump. For now, Trump appears to be taking the position of former President Richard Nixon that ‘when the president does it, that means it is not illegal.’ How did that work out?” Click here to access the Illegitimacy Clock. ###
01.18.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding a proposed ban of highly dangerous hydrofluoric acid by the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD). “I commend the South Coast AQMD for doing the right thing and proposing a ban on highly toxic hydrofluoric acid at South Bay refineries. A big thank you to the incredible grassroots activism that helped take us to this point. I urge SCAQMD to pass the ban as soon as possible, because residents in the South Bay continue to be at risk. While the oil industry and powerful special interests will aggressively challenge this proposed ban, I want SCAQMD to know that the overwhelming majority of residents and elected officials 'have your back.' You can count on us to fight alongside you." ###
01.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on his decision to not attend Donald Trump’s Inauguration on January 20, 2017. “I respect Members of Congress who choose to attend the Inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump or choose not to, just as I respect Members of Congress who attended or did not attend the two Inaugurations of President Barack Obama. I view this as a personal decision because no votes are being taken and no policies will be enacted at this ceremony. While I do not dispute that Trump won the Electoral College, I cannot normalize his behavior or the disparaging and un-American statements he has made.” “Trump--who lost the popular vote--has made a series of racist, sexist and bigoted statements. In addition, he has attacked Gold Star parents, veterans such as John McCain and now civil rights icon John Lewis.” “Trump has made statements denigrating the patriotic and professional men and women of our intelligence services, many of whom risk their lives in service to our nation. He also continues to believe Vladimir Putin over our intelligence services and is actively misleading the American people when he denies Putin ordered a brazen, multifaceted cyberattack on America to benefit Trump.” “On January 20, Trump will be in violation of Article 1, Section 9 of the Constitution because of the massive conflicts of interests he has with his global business holdings. That provision of the Constitution was designed to prevent foreign influence over American elected officials. Trump can cure this Constitutional defect by divesting his holdings or putting them into a blind trust, but so far has been unwilling to do so. “ “Can a man such as Trump have a good idea? The answer is yes. And if the next Administration has a good policy, such as withdrawing from the flawed Trans-Pacific Partnership, I will support it. But if Trump has unconstitutional or bad ideas, such as creating a registry based on religion or gutting Social Security and Medicare, I will oppose them.” “I can only hope that Trump will govern differently than he has campaigned. For me, the personal decision not to attend Inauguration is quite simple: Do I stand with Donald Trump, or do I stand with John Lewis? I am standing with John Lewis." ###
01.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to House Republicans taking the first step in their attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “I am proud to have voted ‘No’ today on the first step of the Republican repeal action that will increase health insurance costs, create chaos in the insurance markets and rip health security away from 30 million Americans. With a repeal of the Affordable Care Act with no replacement plan, insurance premiums will rise and health insurance companies will deny coverage based on pre-existing conditions. With their ‘Yes’ votes today in the absence of a plan, Republicans and GOP President-elect Donald Trump*** now fully own this issue and in two years the American people will know if health insurance costs have gone up or gone down and if their health coverage has gotten better or worse.” “For six years, Republicans have offered no alternative to the ACA and they aren’t offering one now. The reason is simple: MATH. It is impossible to keep the amazing parts of the current law—such as a ban on pre-existing coverage denials, a ban on lifetime coverage maximums, and letting people stay on their parents’ plan until 26—without paying for them. The bottom line is that the GOP ‘repeal and replace’ plan is a sham because MATH does not compromise. I agree with President Obama that if Republicans can come up with a better plan, then we should support it. But it is irresponsible and a dereliction of duty to vote for a repeal without seeing if another plan would be better or worse.” “In my home state of California, 5 million mothers and fathers, daughters and sons, owe their health security to the ACA. Every one of these five million Californians carry a powerful personal story of how their lives have been improved and in many cases saved because of current law. I recently heard from a woman in my district, a 2-time cancer survivor, that the ACA keeps her family out of bankruptcy since the law eliminates annual and lifetime coverage maximums, meaning they can afford the health care they desperately need. Repealing the ACA without a better alternative plan would destroy families such as this.” “Repealing the ACA without a better plan will not only Make America Sick Again, it will also deal a devastating blow to our economy by killing 3 million jobs. Such a repeal will also add $9.5 trillion to the debt over the next 10 years (MATH strikes again). As a recently appointed Assistant Whip for the House Democratic Caucus, I stand with my fellow Democrats to fight any and all attempts to repeal the ACA without a better plan.” *** In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump on January 20, 2017 will be in violation of the Emoluments Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) and Congressman John Conyers (D-MI) led 22 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to use his final days in office to end U.S. support for the Saudi Arabia-led Coalition operation in Yemen. Human rights groups have documented over 70 unlawful airstrikes by the Coalition, routinely bombing schools, hospitals, and other civilian targets in what may constitute war crimes. Following a Coalition airstrike on a funeral that killed 130 people, the Administration began an internal review of U.S. assistance to Saudi Arabia, ultimately deciding to block a $350 million sale of precision-guided munitions kits while continuing to refuel Coalition aircraft. LETTER EXCERPTS: “You have been an amazing, transformational President. In foreign policy, you showed the power of U.S. diplomacy. There is, however, one disturbing issue that stands out as being inconsistent with who you are and who we are as a country: the continued U.S. military support for Saudi-led Coalition airstrikes that have killed mass numbers of civilians in Yemen. These airstrikes—which have killed children, women, doctors, newlyweds and funeral mourners—are likely war crimes. We respectfully ask you to do the right thing before you leave office and stop the U.S. refueling of Coalition aircraft that strike civilian targets in Yemen.” “After an internal review of what the U.S. is doing in Yemen, your Administration on December 13th blocked a $350 million sale of 16,000 guided munitions kits to Saudi Arabia.... But we are extremely puzzled that the Administration decided to continue the U.S. military operation of refueling the very same aircraft that strike civilian targets in Yemen. This approach sends a mixed signal to Saudi Arabia and is logically and internally inconsistent.” “In June 2016, 204 Members of the House on a bipartisan basis voted to block the transfer of cluster bombs to Saudi Arabia after reports of their use in Yemen. In September, 64 Members of Congress wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry, urging a delay in weapons sale to Saudi Arabia over concerns about civilian casualties and 27 Senators voted to halt a $1.15 billion weapons sale to Saudi Arabia. These Congressional votes to block foreign weapons sales were the first in decades, demonstrating that the level of opposition to U.S. participation has risen to extraordinary levels.” FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
01.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement following the news that Republican leadership on the House Oversight Committee are calling the head of the independent federal ethics office to testify about his agency and his criticism of President-elect Trump’s so-called plan to separate from his corporation. “The actions by the Republican leadership on the Oversight Committee are outrageous. They are clearly dragging the head of the independent ethics office up to Capitol Hill as a form of intimidation given the fact that the office has rebuked President-elect Trump*** on several fronts. It would be nice to be able to take Republican leadership and the President-elect at their word when they talk about serving the best interests of the American people. However, Republicans’ actions today are not 'draining the swamp', they are fertilizing the swamp." ***In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump on January 20, 2017 will be in violation of the Emoluments Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. ###
01.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on his appointment to the House Foreign Affairs Committee in the 115th Congress. “I am truly honored by the opportunity to serve on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. I look forward to working with Ranking Member Engel, Chairman Royce and the other Members of this prestigious committee.” “I requested to serve on the Foreign Affairs Committee because in the 21st Century international relations are critical to America’s peace and prosperity. As an immigrant, I know we need to further America’s vital interests by protecting and strengthening our relationships with nations across the globe and fostering economic growth, peace and security. As a Veteran, I am deeply invested in using diplomacy to further our strategic goals around the world.” “President-elect Trump*** has unfortunately made a series of statements that have antagonized America’s allies and given comfort to our enemies. I look forward to working with the other Members of the Foreign Affairs Committee to highlight and stop any dangerous or unwise ideas from our next President.” ***In addition to losing the popular vote, Trump on January 20, 2017 will be in violation of the Emolument’s Clause set forth in Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution due to massive conflicts of interests and his refusal to put his global business holdings in blind trusts. Trump also benefitted from Vladimir Putin ordering a multifaceted and brazen Russian influence and cyber hacking campaign with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrating Secretary Clinton’s electability, and helping Trump’s election chances. ###
01.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: CONGRESSMAN LIEU & LOOKOUT CEO JIM DOLCE HILL OP-ED WARNS OF CYBER WARFARE Online at The Hill, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Dolce urge Congress and the next administration to do more to address the issues of mobile security and warns of the consequences of not doing so. “Given the reliance on mobile apps for everything from buying products to corresponding with friends to getting work done on the go, if an enemy or criminal gains access to someone’s cellphone, they gain access to all aspects of that person’s life — both work and personal.” “Just clicking a link can infect an iPhone with the spyware and lead to total data compromise, including the theft of every email, text and password typed on the device and any verbal conversation uttered in its vicinity post-infection. In minutes, and without any indication, your own phone can become someone else’s spy.” “Mobile is the new frontier for cyber war. It’s time to update our defenses with the right kind of armor.” *** The Full Text of THE HILL piece can be found HERE. ***
01.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding his review of the classified intelligence report on Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent U.S. Elections. “I have now read the highly classified intelligence report on Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent U.S. Elections. I analyzed the report from my perspective as a computer science major and as a Member of the National Security Subcommittee of the House Oversight & Government Reform Committee." "Here is my reaction: there is clear and convincing evidence to support the conclusions of the intelligence community as set forth in the unclassified version of the report. Russian hacking of Americans and American political organizations during the 2016 U.S. presidential election was multifaceted and brazen, with the goals of undermining faith in the U.S. democratic process and harming Secretary Clinton's electability. Putin and the Russian government developed a clear preference for Trump.” “I believe Trump is actively misleading Americans when he says the Russians did not attempt to help his election chances and denigrate Secretary Clinton’s electability. Cyber espionage against American political organizations and cyber intrusions into our electoral boards are not partisan issues, they are American issues. I call on every Member of Congress who has been briefed on or read the classified report to tell Trump that he needs to tell the truth to the American people. At stake is not just our national security, but the very fabric of our democracy.” ###
01.11.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the confirmation hearing of Rex Tillerson, former CEO of ExxonMobil, to serve as the next U.S. Secretary of State: “#RexTillersonKnew.” ###
01.11.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding his appointment to the House Judiciary Committee in the 115th Congress. In the 114th Congress, Mr. Lieu was a leading voice on immigration reform, civil liberties, internet security, criminal justice reform, and encryption. “I am honored by the opportunity to serve on the House Judiciary Committee.As a former prosecutor, one of only a handful of immigrants serving in Congress, and the only Democrat with a computer science degree, I hope I can bring a unique perspective to the committee charged with overseeing our nation’s administration of law and justice. The Judiciary Committee was my first choice because of the numerous critical issues over which the Committee has jurisdiction, such as immigration, civil liberties, criminal justice reform, privacy, and encryption.” “The Judiciary Committee takes on exceptional importance given the prior statements of Trump--who lost the popular vote--in which he advocated for a Muslim-American registry as well as the deportation of millions of people, which would include children, high school, and college students who are undocumented. I will fight like hell on the Judiciary Committee to stop all unconstitutional, discriminatory and stupid ideas by our next President." ###
01.10.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding his appointment as an Assistant Whip for the Democratic Caucus in the 115th Congress. In the 114th Congress, Mr. Lieu served as the President of the Freshman Class of Democrats. Upon his appointment, Mr. Lieu made the following statement: “I am truly honored by the opportunity to serve as an Assistant Whip for House Democrats. I look forward to working with Whip Hoyer, Leader Pelosi and my fellow House Democrats to push back against any and all attempts by House Republicans to enact special-interest-driven plans to repeal Obamacare, slash Social Security and Medicare, gut environmental regulations, and undermine our civil liberties.” “My fellow Democrats and I will be working on innovative policy solutions that protect and expand the wellness, economic prosperity, and freedom of each and every member of the American Family.” Upon Mr. Lieu’s appointment, House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer made the following statement: “I’m pleased to welcome Rep. Ted Lieu to my whip team for the 115th Congress. Since coming to Washington, he’s worked hard to represent the people of California’s 33rd District by standing up for the core Democratic principles of equal justice, equal opportunity, and a more accountable and transparent government. As a veteran, he’s worked to make our nation safer and meet America’s commitment to those who wore the uniform of our country. I look forward to working with him in our whip operation to advance House Democrats’ agenda of expanding jobs and opportunity and meeting our national security challenges.” ###
01.09.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta urging him to withdraw a recent cease and desist order regarding Santa Monica Airport. FAA issued the order after the City of Santa Monica began taking steps to establish its own fixed-base operator service. Excerpts from Mr. Lieu’s Letter: “In the Order, the [FAA] incorrectly stated that the city of Santa Monica “chose not to oppose” judicial motions filed by the two fixed-base operators, American Flyers, Inc. and Atlantic Aviation FBO, Inc. In fact, the city clearly opposed the motions in court filings and no orders were issued from the motions by the FBOs…” “Even more troubling than the FAA's ignorance is that the Order contradicts the FAA’s own guidance allowing airport sponsors to exclusively provide aeronautical services. The FAA's Order prevents the city, the operator of Santa Monica Airport, from seeking to serve as its own FBO providing various aeronautical services including fueling services. The FAA, however, specifically gave cities such as Santa Monica the right to be its own FBO…” “The mission of the FAA is ‘to provide the safest, most efficient aerospace system in the world.’ The FAA's mission is not to be a shill for corporations. I call on the FAA to live up to its mission by rescinding its overreaching order and, instead, work with the city of Santa Monica.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
01.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the controversial “Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny” or REINS Act. The REINS Act is a radical proposal, which requires Congress to approve every major executive regulation. Under this bill, several important environmental, public health, and consumer safety laws would be threatened. Congressman Lieu voted against the legislation. “I am highly disturbed by the House passage of the so-called ‘Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny’ or REINS Act. By requiring Congress to approve of major rules, Republicans are unabashedly preventing the Administration from protecting the environment, public health, and consumer safety. More troubling is that Republicans rejected several important Democratic amendments, including ones to reduce lead in drinking water and protect low-income communities from carbon pollution. The Senate should reject this unnecessary and harmful legislation.” ###
01.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after VA Secretary Robert A. McDonald announced a concentrated 30-day effort by VA staff and partners to house as many homeless Veterans in their communities as possible. “I applaud VA Secretary McDonald’s announcement today of a concerted 30-day push to house homeless Veterans from coast to coast. As a Veteran, I believe that no woman or man who has served their nation in uniform should have to fight for a roof over their head when their service is done. Some veterans are homeless precisely because of mental or physical injuries they incurred when they served our country.” “It’s fitting that Secretary McDonald announced this push to house homeless heroes in Los Angeles. Both the Secretary and I know that Veteran homelessness in America won’t be solved without solving it in Los Angeles County. In Congress, I worked on a bipartisan basis to find solutions to restore the West Los Angeles VA. I was deeply humbled when President Obama signed my legislation into law, authorizing the VA to implement the Master Plan for the West L.A. campus. The new West LA VA will have 1,200 units of supportive housing on campus and offer new crucial services for our community’s Veterans.” “This progress paves the way for fiercer and even more urgent work in our mission to honor the debt owed to our Veteran heroes. Today’s announcement by Secretary McDonald is another step forward in that collective mission.” ###
01.05.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President-elect Donald Trump’s selection of David Friedman for U.S. Ambassador to Israel. “I strongly support the two-state solution because it is the only way for Israel to have peace and remain both democratic and Jewish. Supporting a two-state solution has been a bipartisan, long-standing tenet of American foreign policy. Unfortunately, Trump, who lost the popular vote, has nominated David Friedman as Ambassador to Israel – a person who rejects a two-state solution. I cannot in good conscience support Mr. Friedman and urge the United States Senate to not confirm him." ###
01.03.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after House Republicans reversed plans to eviscerate the independent Office of Congressional Ethics. “While House Republicans have backed down from their disgraceful plan to gut the independent House Ethics Committee, all Americans should steel themselves for this kind of failed leadership from Speaker Ryan and company in 2017.” “Swift and righteous public outcry may have forced House Republicans to back down on their mission to govern with almost no ethics oversight, but Speaker Ryan is still hell bent on repealing the ACA (thereby throwing 20 million plus Americans into health care crisis), gutting Wall Street regulations and shredding the Social Security / Medicare guarantee for our nation’s seniors.” “Today, Democrats and the American people joined together to thwart the House GOP’s first disgraceful scheme in the first few hours of 2017. Going forward, my fellow Democrats and I will fight House Republican special-interest-inspired attempts to move America backward. My fellow Democrats and I will match failing Republican leadership with innovative ideas to grow our economy, expand health security and strengthen Social Security and Medicare for every American family.” ###
01.03.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWashington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the House Republican Majority’s gutting of the independent House Ethics Committee by voting to include the Goodlatte amendment in their Rules package. “To paraphrase the immortal words of Lord Acton: Power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely.” ###
12.31.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) shared the following information, recapping the legislative accomplishments during his freshman term. During the 114th Congress, language from seven pieces of legislation sponsored by Congressman Lieu was signed into law. Revitalizing the West LA VA and Supporting Homeless Veterans "One of my top priorities in Congress has been to provide my fellow veterans with the care and support they have earned and deserve. Following a settlement between the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Veterans advocates in January 2015, we set to work with the VA, Veterans, and community stakeholders to develop a Master Plan to revitalize the West LA VA and better serve our Veterans. With a broadly-supported plan in place, Sen. Feinstein and I passed legislation (H.R. 3484) to authorize the VA to enter into public-private agreements to develop nearly 2,000 units of permanent supportive and temporary housing for traumatized, disabled, and homeless Veterans. We also passed two bills (H.R. 1543 and H.R. 4334) to retrofit vacant buildings on the campus and another (H.R. 2934) to reauthorize the VA’s Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans, which has proven critical in driving the VA’s work to address Veteran homelessness in Los Angeles and nationally." Protecting Patients from Antibiotic-Resistant “Superbugs” "In response to a surge in superbug infections and deaths occurring at hospitals across the country, including at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles and Ronald Regan UCLA Medical Center, I used my seat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to place the government’s spotlight on the issue. Following a thorough investigation to understand how tainted medical devices were causing the outbreaks, I persuaded my colleagues to join me in passing the Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act (H.R. 4966). The new law requires that cleaning instructions for medical devices are scientifically proven to work and provides the U.S. Food and Drug Administration with additional authority to limit outbreaks caused by contaminated medical scopes." Combating Foreign Disinformation Campaigns​ "From Russia’s fake news operation to influence the U.S. elections process to ISIS’ social media efforts to recruit foreign fighters, foreign actors are regularly using disinformation and propaganda campaigns around the globe to undermine democracy and wreak havoc. It is clear that our country needs a whole-of-government approach to develop coordinated strategies to get the truth out. My bipartisan legislation with Rep. Kinzinger, the Countering Foreign Propaganda and Disinformation Act of 2016 (H.R. 5181), increases the authority and resources of the State Department’s Global Engagement Center to lead the government’s efforts and establishes a fund to leverage expertise outside of government by training local journalists and empowering NGO’s." Rebooting a Key Economic Indicator "Since the end of World War II, the Department of Commerce’s Quarterly Financial Report (QFR) has been a closely-watched economic indicator used to produce timely data on business financial conditions that is widely used by the government and private sector alike. Good decisions require good information, and the expiration of the QFR left our country momentarily shorthanded. Working with the House Majority, I quickly passed legislation (H.R. 3116) to reboot this key economic indicator and ensure we have the tools to measure our nation’s economy." ###
12.29.2016	Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the Obama administration’s response to Russian Interference in the 2016 Election: "The actions President Obama took today in response to the massive hacking of Americans by Russians are steps in the right direction. America became the punching bag for Russian, Chinese and North Korean hackers due to our previous weak responses and lack of strong cyber security defenses. We still need to increases our cyber security defenses by an order of magnitude. Wake up America, we no longer live in the 1930s. As Dorothy in the Wizard of Oz said, 'we're not in Kansas anymore.' We live in a brave new world where we need to stand strong against hackers. As a computer science major and Air Force veteran, I am well aware of the immense damage that hacking can cause to American national security and to the American people. If Trump thinks that ignoring Russian hacking is going to make it go away, that's just dumb." ###
12.23.2016	Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the United Nations Security Council’s passage of Resolution 2334: “I am deeply troubled by the United Nations Security Council’s passage of a one-sided, harmful resolution, and I am disappointed with the Administration’s decision not to exercise its veto. The United Nations should not be litigating what can only be negotiated directly between the Israelis and Palestinians. The notion that singling out one side in a conflict while giving the other an incentive not to negotiate will somehow support the peace process is laughable. “Furthermore, it is utterly shameful that the UNSC has found time to criticize Israel but not intervene to stop the mass-killing of civilians in Syria or launch an independent investigation into civilian deaths in Yemen. Today, the United Nations Security Council has again failed to live up to its name.” ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND: On April 13, 2016, Congressman Lieu and a bipartisan group of 387 Members of Congress sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to veto one-sided resolutions at the United Nations. You can read the full letter here. ###
12.22.2016	Manhattan Beach - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) presented Sergeant Albert Erd (93) with replacement medals for ones that were stolen many years ago. Sergeant Erd beamed with pride as he recounted to Congressman Lieu his service in the United States Army Air Corps during World War II, which included being a radio operator on the B-17 Flying Fortress during the European Campaign that flew over Germany and Romania. He was also a gunner, completing 50 missions in total. Just in time for the holiday season, Sergeant Erd, a Redondo Beach resident, got his wish of receiving the replacement medals. He stated that it was not until a recent heart attack that he discussed trying to retrieve them. Sergeant Erd’s grandson Louie Schwartz, also a military veteran, contacted the office of Congressman Lieu in hopes of obtaining replacement medals for his grandfather. Congressman Lieu’s office was able to work with the Department of the Army to replace the medals. Sergeant Erd’s list of impressive military awards and decorations are as follows: Purple Heart Air Medal with three Bronze Oak Leaf Clusters American Campaign Medal European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medial with one Silver Service Star and one Bronze Service Star World War II Victory Medal Presidential Unit Citation (formerly Distinguished Unit Citation) U.S. Army Air Force Aerial Gunner Badge Wings Honorable Service Lapel Button - World War II At a private meeting, Congressman Lieu presented the medals to Sergeant Erd, who was surrounded by his wife and family. Congressman Lieu stated the following after the presentation: “It was a great honor to meet and present the medals to Sergeant Erd. He sacrificed so much for our country and deserves to have these medals, which memorialize his selfless acts of courage." ###
12.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President Obama's announcement to use his authority under the Outer Continental Lands Shelf Act to permanently withdraw areas of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans from offshore oil drilling. The action was taken in coordination with Canada. “I am pleased President Obama is using his authority to permanently protect portions of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans from oil drilling. Physics and chemistry do not compromise. We are already witnessing shrinking glaciers, rising sea levels, and record-breaking temperatures.” “During his presidency, Obama has taken critical steps to combat climate change; today's decision to reduce our reliance on dirty fossil fuels of the past will help cement that record. Going forward, we must build on this Administration’s environmental legacy and vigorously oppose any actions that take us backwards on climate and imperil our planet." ###
12.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Federal Aviation Administration issued an interim cease and desist order to the City of Santa Monica. This order prevents the City from evicting American Flyers, Inc. and Atlantic Aviation FBO, Inc. from Santa Monica Airport. In September, Santa Monica issued Notices to Vacate to these two tenants. “I am outraged the FAA continues to waste tax payer dollars fighting with the residents of Santa Monica over the use of the City’s land. The people of Santa Monica have made clear their concerns with the airport and local elected officials have taken appropriate actions to protect the wishes and health of their citizens.” “The FAA's cease and desist order is just the latest in a long line of unfair and heavy-handed actions the FAA has taken against the City over the airport. It is absurd the federal government is now mandating that a local government use specific private sector companies. The FAA is a public trust, not a shill for corporations.” “Under federal law, cities may choose to use their own government to provide services. The FAA should rescind its overreaching and potentially unlawful order and instead work with the local community to better understand its needs.” ###
12.13.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement following U.S. intelligence professionals’ conclusion that Russia interfered in U.S. elections for the purposes of affecting the outcome. “Like so many Americans – Democrats, Republicans and Independents alike – I am profoundly disturbed that America’s intelligence professionals have concluded that Russia interfered in the 2016 U.S. Presidential election. In the face of the dire seriousness of Russia’s actions, Congress has one choice and one choice only: to act.” “As a veteran who served on active duty and as an immigrant, the sanctity of our democracy is deeply personal to me. My family and I came to this country for the chance to live the American Dream. I chose to serve my nation in uniform to give back to America. Our nation’s free, open and safe elections are the guarantor of the American Dream and they must be protected at all times.” “As a result, I hope Speaker Ryan joins with Democrats and Republicans in Congress to call for a full investigation into Russia’s hacking of the 2016 election. Congress must investigate Russia’s actions, not for the sake of a political party, or a President-elect, but for the sake of each and every American proud to live in a nation forged in liberty’s name – a nation whose democracy has been a shining beacon the world over.” ###
12.13.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the nomination of Rex Tillerson, CEO of ExxonMobil, to serve as the next Secretary of State. “Another day, another disturbing cabinet choice for Donald Trump, who lost the popular vote. After ignoring intelligence reports that Russia interfered with U.S. elections, Trump has nominated someone who is more aligned with Putin than our NATO allies to be our nation's top diplomat. As Russia seeks to undermine western cohesion in Europe, Trump has tapped someone who has publicly advocated for lifting U.S. sanctions on Russia and has a financial interest in doing so.” “To make matters worse, Trump's pick is the head of ExxonMobil, an oil company hurting from sanctions on Russia, and one that knew the dangers of climate change, but engaged in a campaign of climate disinformation to protect its own bottom line. Tillerson's deception has resulted in multiple investigations by state Attorneys General, a federal investigation by the SEC, and a shareholder lawsuit.” “The nomination of Tillerson as our Secretary of State should trouble all those who care about American leadership and values, Republicans and Democrats alike. I call on my Senate colleagues to reject Tillerson and his behavior of misleading the American public.” ###
12.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: CONGRESSMAN LIEU’S THE HILL OP-ED: “ACTING ON CLIMATE IN THE AGE OF PRUITT” Online at The Hill, Mr. Lieu discusses the negative consequences of nominating Scott Pruitt, a fierce climate change denier, to lead the Environmental Protection Agency under President-elect Trump’s administration. “Pruitt, who was elected Attorney General of Oklahoma in 2010, has spent his tenure acting as a de facto lobbyist for the oil and gas industry.” “He sows doubt about the undeniable reality of climate change. He relishes fighting environmental protections put forth by the EPA. He is currently waging a campaign against the Attorneys General investigating ExxonMobil for climate fraud. This is giving a fox the keys to the hen house.” “I worry, though, that as Trump pads his Cabinet with Pruitt and other members of ‘team fossil fuel’, America will cede its opportunity to lead the world’s green energy revolution, and other countries (such as China) will fill that void. If the Kennedy Administration and NASA in the 1960s had the same attitude about science that Trump and Pruitt have today, John Glenn would have never had the chance to orbit the Earth; American astronauts would have never stepped foot on the Moon. Russian astronauts would have beat us to it.” ***The Full Text of THE HILL piece can be found HERE. ***
12.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the nomination of Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to lead the Environmental Protection Agency (E.P.A.) “Donald Trump, who lost the popular vote, has nominated anti-environmentalist Scott Pruitt to lead E.P.A. As Oklahoma A.G., Mr. Pruitt acted as a de facto lobbyist for the oil and gas industry by challenging President Obama’s E.P.A. rules to reduce planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions at our nation’s power plants. In essence, Mr. Pruitt has never met a federal environmental protection that he likes. It is deeply disturbing that Mr. Pruitt, who has spent so much time trying to undermine the E.P.A., is now being asked to run it.” “Equally disturbing is the fact that Mr. Pruitt does not believe in climate change. As a Veteran and a Colonel in the Air Force Reserves, I wholeheartedly agree with the U.S. Military’s position that Climate Change is real and a threat to our national security. What does Mr. Pruitt know that the Pentagon doesn’t ? The answer is nothing. Mr. Pruitt is the wrong choice to lead E.P.A.” ###
12.05.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the nomination of Dr. Ben Carson for Secretary of Housing and Urban Development: "Remember the famous commercial where a man is flying a helicopter and reveals he’s not a pilot but he did ‘stay at a Holiday Inn Express last night’. Trump's nomination of Dr. Ben Carson to lead HUD reminds me of that commercial. 'Do you have any experience running a large federal agency or knowledge of housing and urban development?' 'No, but I stayed at a Holiday Inn Express last night.'” “This would actually be funny if it weren't so tragic. HUD deals with real people's lives, from homeless veterans to discrimination to affordable housing. I call on Dr. Carson to do the right thing, follow his own prior statements which indicated he wasn't qualified to lead a federal agency, and withdraw. America is the greatest nation on earth. We are not a TV reality show or a funny commercial." ###
12.02.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s release of its national cybersecurity report. "I thank President Obama and his cyber team for all their hard work. America is behind in cybersecurity and we need major investments in both the public and private sector. In the 21st Century, cybersecurity must be considered part of our nation’s infrastructure. That's why the bigger, bolder and fairer infrastructure plan I am working on will have major cyber investments." ###
12.02.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of Veteran Service Organizations and leading Veteran advocates expressing deep fears that the Trump Administration may privatize healthcare for our nation’s Veterans. “As the Member of Congress representing the nation’s largest VA hospital, I oppose any effort to privatize VA healthcare. My opposition to privatization is guided by the voices of veterans and advocates in my district, who understand that we can improve service delivery to our veterans without tearing the VA down brick by brick. On average, our veteran population is older and sicker than the rest of America – they have earned and deserve a world-class healthcare system designed to meet their unique needs.” “Finally, as a veteran myself who served on active duty, I humbly believe that a veteran should be at the helm of the VA. Our nation’s warriors deserve a leader with a profound understanding of their service and sacrifice. They deserve a leader dedicated to guaranteeing timely access to the highest quality care.” ###
12.02.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County), who co-introduced H.R. 5181, the Countering Foreign Propaganda and Disinformation Act of 2016, issued the following statement in response to the passage of the conference report to S. 2943, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017, by the House of Representatives. The Countering Foreign Propaganda and Disinformation Act of 2016, incorporated into the NDAA, establishes a Global Engagement Center within the U.S. Department of State to lead the effort to recognize, understand, expose and counter foreign state and non-state propaganda and information efforts aimed at undermining United States national security interests. “I am pleased that the 2017 defense authorization bill incorporated my legislation to develop a comprehensive U.S. strategy to counter foreign disinformation campaigns. The recent U.S. elections demonstrated the far-reaching capabilities of a Russian propaganda campaign, which devoted significant resources to spreading false and damaging news to influence American voters. As Russia continues to spew its disinformation and false narratives, they undermine the United States and our values at home and abroad, breeding instability across eastern Europe and clamping down on democratic institutions.” “At a time when countries like Russia are engaging in hybrid warfare campaigns, the United States must do a better job countering this foreign manipulation. With today’s passage of the Countering Foreign Propaganda and Disinformation Act of 2016, the U.S. has taken an important step forward to fight for truth and democracy.” ###
11.30.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County), sponsor of H.R. 4966, the Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act, issued the following statement in response to the passage of H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act, by the House of Representatives. “I am pleased that the 21st Century Cures Act incorporated my bill to address the spread of antibiotic-resistant superbugs through medical devices. This legislation mandates that cleaning instructions for medical devices be scientifically proven to work while improving the FDA’s authority to limit outbreaks caused by contaminated medical devices. This is welcome news for Los Angeles, which has seen antibiotic-resistant infections and deaths attributed to tainted medical scopes at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and the Ronald Regan UCLA Medical Center. Addressing the problems posed by duodenoscope-linked superbug outbreaks is just one step toward combating the public health and national security threats posed by antibiotic-resistant bacteria.” “I want to thank Senator Patty Murray for working with me on this important issue. Her leadership as Ranking Member of the Senate HELP Committee helped ensure that our superbug bill language was included in the overall Cures package. I also want to thank the health care staff with the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee as well as the Senate HELP Committee staff for their tireless work on this issue.” “While not perfect, the 21st Century Cures Act dedicates more than $6 billion to implement many provisions that both my Democratic colleagues and the Obama Administration are supportive of, including funding for the President’s Precision Medicine and BRAIN Initiatives, as well as the Vice President’s Cancer Moonshot. The Act also takes important steps to confront our nation’s opioid abuse crisis and to prioritize mental health programs. I do not believe this Act would have gotten better under the incoming Trump Administration; it likely would have gotten worse. President Obama supports this legislation and I urge the Senate to pass it.” MR. LIEU’S EFFORTS TO COMBAT THE SPREAD OF ANTIBIOTIC-RESISTANT SUPERBUGS In 2015, in response to news of superbug infections and deaths occuring at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles and at the Ronald Regan UCLA Medical Center, Mr. Lieu called for a Congressional hearing to examine the outbreaks. Mr. Lieu sought answers from the Olympus Corporation of Americas, makers of the duodenoscopes that transmitted the deadly CRE bacteria to patients during a routine medical procedure. In the letter, he asked Olympus Corp. how they planned to prevent superbug outbreaks linked to contaminated medical scopes and about the effectiveness of their cleaning instructions. Mr. Lieu also sent letters to government agencies, including a letter to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg seeking further information and ideas on how to best prevent fatal outbreaks of antibiotic resistant bacteria and a letter to the SEC Chair Mary Jo White to investigate Olympus for fraud and violations of U.S. securities laws. In August 2016, Mr. Lieu sent a letter to Secretary John Kerry urging the State Department to request that Japanese authorities investigate and prosecute Olympus for civil or criminal misconduct in their mishandling of antibiotic-resistant bacteria infections caused by their medical devices. After a yearlong investigation that Mr. Lieu requested, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform found significant gaps in existing law that contributed to a nationwide problem of superbug outbreaks due to tainted duodenoscopes. This led to Mr. Lieu introducing two pieces of legislation, H.R. 4965, the Disclosure; and Encouragement of Verification, Innovation, Cleaning, and Efficiency (DEVICE) Act and H.R. 4966, the Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act. On February 4, 2016, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the Senate companion bill to Mr. Lieu’s H.R. 4966, which is included in Section 3059 of the 21st Century Cures Act. ###
11.30.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has sent a letter to House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-MD) requesting that the Committee hold a hearing on the rapidly growing threat of ransomware attacks. The letter comes days after the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency (SFMTA) was reportedly hit by a ransomware attack that rendered the ticket machines for the Municipal Rail system out of service. Earlier this year, the Federal Bureau of Investigation reported that the incidents of ransomware were on the rise, with victims reporting $290 million in total costs from the attacks in the first three months of 2016 alone, compared with $24 million for all of 2015. In the letter, Congressman Lieu writes: “Ransomware attacks are used against all types of entities, including school districts, law enforcement agencies, government agencies and small and large businesses. At least 14 hospitals were affected this year alone, including three in the Los Angeles area.” ​“These malware attacks have had tremendous economic costs in recent years, and it would seem only a matter of time before we face life-threatening or national security consequences as well. Whether it is a law enforcement agency losing track of a target or critical infrastructure failing to perform, the hypothetical scenarios should not be disregarded.” "A House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing is needed to shed light on the growing threat of ransomware, outline best practices to mitigate it, and identify the most critical areas for improvement in both the public and private sectors.” The full text of Congressman Lieu’s letter. ###
11.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding reports that President-elect Trump will nominate Betsy DeVos to lead the Department of Education. Ms. DeVos is a prominent Republican donor in Michigan. “Once again, President-elect Trump is putting wealthy donors before our country’s needs, appointing Betsy DeVos as Secretary of Education. A strong public education system is the bedrock of a healthy democracy. But, choosing a wealthy donor with no experience in the classroom shows that Mr. Trump is more interested in rewarding donors than finding solutions to improve public schools.” “Further troubling is that Ms. DeVos and her family have given significant sums of money to anti-LGBT groups, some of which support so-called gay conversion therapy. Conversion therapy, which falsely purports to change a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity, is ineffective and has serious side effects including depression and self-harm. It has been denounced by all of the mainstream medical and mental health organizations and should not be supported anywhere in society or government. It is critical that the Education Secretary take a firm stance against conversion therapy to ensure that LGBT students know they are protected. We need leaders who commit to serving all Americans.” ###
11.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the expired ceasefire in Yemen. “I am deeply disappointed that the 48-hour ceasefire in Yemen has expired after repeated violations by the Houthis prompted the Saudi-led coalition to respond in kind. According to reports from local aid activists, the Houthis even prevented an 18-truck convoy of humanitarian aid from reaching the province of Taez. The civilian population has suffered greatly throughout 20 months of brutal conflict, and the United Nations estimates that there are now three million people in need of immediate food supplies, half of which are children suffering from malnutrition. I urge both parties to consider the humanitarian crisis they have inflicted on the people of Yemen and immediately extend the ceasefire. The solution to this nearly two-year-old conflict can only be found at the negotiating table.” ###
11.18.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s newly released offshore oil and gas leasing plan for 2017 to 2022 for the Nation’s Outer Continental Shelf. In addition to blocking new oil drilling sites in the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, the five year plan will block oil leasing rights in the Arctic’s Beaufort and Chukchi Seas. These areas were open to drilling in draft versions of the plan. “I applaud President Obama for releasing a strategic and forward-thinking offshore drilling plan that spares the Arctic Ocean from harmful activities. Having served on active duty, I understand that oil exploration in the Arctic endangers our country’s national security. Increasing our reliance on dirty fossil fuels will exacerbate climate change, the greatest long-term threat to America and the world. Climate change will increase extreme weather events and instability throughout the world, unleashing a host of new dangers to which our military will need to respond. It is imperative that we uphold the President’s visionary plan in the coming years.” ###
11.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after Trump supporter Carl Higbie cited the World War II internment of Japanese-Americans as precedent for creating a registry for immigrants from Muslim countries.“The comments made by Trump supporter Carl Higbie concerning Japanese-American internment are reprehensible. The internment of Japanese-Americans is one of the darkest moments in our nation’s history and should not be used as a model for action by the federal government, as Mr. Higbie suggests. President-elect Trump not only needs to immediately condemn Mr. Higbie’s remarks, he also must repudiate the idea of a ‘Muslim registry’, which is a bigoted idea espoused by presidential transition advisor Kris Kobach. President-elect Trump must demonstrate that he is the President for every American, not just the alt-right.” ###
11.16.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MEDIA ADVISORY: CONGRESSMAN LIEU JOINS TOM LANTOS HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION TO HOLD HEARING ON HUMANITARIAN CRISIS IN YEMEN November 17, 2016 10:00 AM – 12:00 Noon 2200 Rayburn House Office Building Please join Congressman Ted Lieu and the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission for a hearing on the humanitarian crisis in Yemen, and the options and dilemmas confronting policymakers concerned with civilian protection. A year and a half after the escalation of conflict between the northern Yemeni Houthi movement in alliance with forces still loyal to former President Ali Abdullah Saleh, and an international Coalition led by Saudi Arabia seeking to restore the government of President Abed Rabbo Mansour al Hadi, with support from the United States government, the humanitarian situation in Yemen continues to deteriorate. Before the outbreak of conflict, the country already faced a protracted crisis characterized by widespread poverty, food insecurity, poor governance, and weak rule of law, including widely reported human rights violations. The escalation has amplified that crisis, as the parties to the conflict have failed to take adequate steps to protect civilians or fulfill their obligations under international humanitarian law. Since the collapse of a cessation of hostilities in August of 2016, Yemenis have endured near-daily attacks on civilians, civilian institutions and public infrastructure. In August, the Coalition inadvertently bombed an MSF-supported health facility and school in Sa’ada. In October, a Coalition attack on a funeral gathering in Sana’a left at least 140 people dead and 550 injured. Houthi-Saleh forces have indiscriminately shelled Taizz and other locations, as well as towns and installations inside Saudi Arabia, reportedly using ballistic missiles. Armed Houthi and Saleh forces routinely intimidate, delay and harass humanitarian workers. More than 3 million people are internally displaced, and Yemen is at risk of famine: over 14 million people are food insecure. Witnesses will discuss the strategic environment in which the conflict is taking place, update the humanitarian situation as it has been exacerbated by the conflict, and offer recommendations to ensure civilian protection. This hearing will be open to members of Congress, congressional staff, the interested public, and the media. The hearing will be livestreamed via YouTube on the Commission website: https://humanrightscommission.house.gov/.Panel I James E. Jeffrey, Philip Solondz Distinguished Fellow, Washington Institute Scott Paul, Senior Policy Advisor, Oxfam USA Michael Bowers, Vice President for Humanitarian Policy and Practice, Mercy Corps Krista Zimmerman, Associate Director for International Humanitarian Policy, Save the Children Sunjeev Bery, Advocacy Director, MENA, Amnesty International USA (AIUSA) Congressman Lieu’s Prior Actions: Mr. Lieu has repeatedly raised concerns regarding this issue. Last year, he sent a letter to General Joseph F. Dunford, the incoming chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, requesting further information about civilian deaths as a result of Saudi Arabian led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. A month later, Mr. Lieu joined Representatives Dingell and Ellison to lead a letter to President Obama on the Yemen airstrikes. In March 2016, Mr. Lieu sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Ash Carter expressing his deep concern over the tragic civilian deaths. In August 2016, Mr. Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending another letter to President Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. Most recently, he sent a letter to Secretaries Ash Carter and John Kerry seeking clarity regarding the statement made by a senior U.S. Administration official about U.S. support of the Saudi-led military coalition in Yemen. The official stated that U.S. support of the Coalition does not include “target selection and review.” He also introduced House Joint Resolution 90 to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia. Senators Chris Murphy (CT) and Rand Paul (KY) introduced Senate Joint Resolution 32, the Senate companion to Mr. Lieu’s bill. ###
11.16.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding news reports that the Obama Administration will block oil leasing rights in the Arctic in his offshore drilling plan. “While we don’t yet know the details of President Obama’s offshore drilling plan, it is clear that sparing the Arctic Ocean from drilling would benefit United States national security. Having served on active duty, I understand that oil exploration in the Arctic is contrary to our country’s interests. Increasing our reliance on dirty fossil fuels will exacerbate climate change, the greatest long-term threat to America and the world. Climate change will increase extreme weather events and instability throughout the world, unleashing a host of new dangers to which our military will need to respond. It is imperative that we protect the Arctic Ocean from drilling now.”
11.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President-elect Trump’s infrastructure proposal. “America is in desperate need of infrastructure investment. Democrats have been fighting for more infrastructure for decades, but the Republican Congress has repeatedly blocked our proposals. President-elect Trump’s new infrastructure proposal of $1 trillion is unfortunately far too tiny. The American Society of Civil Engineers has stated that our nation has an infrastructure deficit of at least $3.6 trillion. In California alone, there are 2,800 bridges that need to be repaired. What we need are bold ideas, not weak proposals. As a Member of the House Budget Committee, I will be proposing a budget amendment that includes at least $3.6 trillion in infrastructure funding. That is how we move America forward.” ###
11.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWashington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of the announcement that alt-right movement leader and Breitbart News executive chairman Steve Bannon will be Chief Strategist for President-elect Trump’s White House.“President-elect Trump must withdraw the appointment of Steve Bannon as White House Chief Strategist. Bannon’s Breitbart engaged in racist, anti-Semitic, xenophobic and homophobic hate speech. Now Bannon has a seat in the Oval Office and that is unacceptable. In the wake of a historically divisive campaign, President-elect Trump must demonstrate that he is the President for every American, not just the alt-right.” ###
11.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President-elect Trump’s selection of Myron Ebell to lead the Environmental Protection Agency transition team. Myron Bell is the director of the Competitive Enterprise Institute’s Center for Energy and Environment. He denies the dangers of climate change and opposes the Paris Climate Agreement and protections for public lands. “I am horrified that President-elect Trump has selected a notorious climate change skeptic, Myron Ebell, to lead his EPA transition team. The incoming Administration should make decisions based on science, not mythology; but, Ebell’s beliefs on global warming clearly show his disdain for scientific facts. Climate change is real, and we need responsible leaders ready to address it rather than pretend it doesn’t exist. We simply cannot afford to go backwards in our efforts to address this existential crisis.” ###
11.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in support of House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah Cummings’s letter to Chairman Jason Chaffetz requesting that the committee investigate President-elect Trump’s financial conflicts of interest. “As a member of the House Oversight Committee, I stand with Ranking Member Cummings to request that Chairman Jason Chaffetz and the Oversight Committee immediately look into President-elect Donald Trump’s financial arrangements and the conflicts of interests and ethics posed by them. Mr. Trump has vast business interests around the world, relies heavily on his family members for advice—including several who are currently serving on his transition team—and has refused to disclose his tax returns. Congress has a responsibility to hold our government officials accountable and ensure that financial conflicts of interests are eliminated. For these reasons, it is critical that the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee conduct a robust review of Mr. Trump’s financial positions to combat the slightest hint of impropriety.” THE FULL TEXT OF RANKING MEMBER CUMMINGS'S LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE. ###
11.10.2016	LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in commemoration of Veterans Day, being held tomorrow on November 11, 2016. “This Veterans Day, let us honor the service and sacrifice that our men and women in uniform embody. Since coming to Congress, one of my top priorities has been to fight for our Veterans, and I am proud that my first two bills in Congress, signed into law by President Barack Obama, focused on improving the West Los Angeles VA and addressing the issue of Veterans homelessness. As an Air Force Veteran myself, I will continue to advocate for my fellow service men and women to ensure they have access to the resources they need when they return to civilian life. Together, let us salute our nation’s heroes and work to create a better future for Veterans and their families.” ###
11.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Paris Agreement. In December 2015, the Paris Agreement was adopted by almost 200 countries, creating a global framework to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address climate change. Today, the landmark agreement became international law. “I am thrilled that the Paris Agreement is taking effect. Climate change presents an immediate and enduring threat to life as we know it, and today’s progress is critical to ensuring the world is on the appropriate path to combat it. It is now necessary that our own nation’s leaders take aggressive measures to protect our planet and ensure the United States’ leadership in the global economy.” ###
11.03.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Yesterday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Secretaries Ash Carter and John Kerry seeking clarity regarding a recent statement made by a senior U.S. Administration official about U.S. support of the Saudi-led military coalition in Yemen. The official stated that U.S. support of the Coalition does not include “target selection and review.” In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: “I find it deeply troubling that the U.S. apparently has no advanced knowledge of what targets will be struck by jets that are refueled by U.S. personnel with U.S. tankers. Reports last month revealed that State Department lawyers were concerned about potential violations of the Law of Armed Conflict (LOAC) by the Coalition, but the Administration nevertheless chose to proceed to aid and abet the Coalition.” “As has been widely reported, the U.S. is engaged in military operations with the Coalition, such as refueling Coalition fighter jets that directly result in the use of force on targets in Yemen. The U.S. would appear to be violating LOAC and international standards by engaging in such direct military operations if U.S. personnel are not aware if targets are civilian or military, if the loss of life and property are disproportional, or if the operation is even militarily necessary.” “U.S. personnel are now at legal risk of being investigated and potentially prosecuted for committing war crimes. Under international law, a person can be found guilty of aiding and abetting war crimes.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE. ###
11.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE “I commend U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Samantha Power for calling for an end to airstrikes by the Saudi-led military coalition (which includes the United States) in Yemen. The logical consequence of this apparent change in U.S. policy is that our nation must stop aiding and abetting the military coalition by pulling out of the coalition immediately. The U.S. must stop refueling Saudi jets that have struck civilian targets over 70 times in Yemen; stop transferring vast amounts of arms to the Saudi military; and demand an independent investigation into allegations that multiple war crimes have been committed against Yemeni women, men and children by the Saudi-led coalition.” ### Congressman Lieu serves on the House Committees on the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform. He also serves on the National Security Subcommittee of Oversight & Government Reform. Congressman Lieu is the Democratic Freshman Class President and a Colonel in the Air Force Reserves.
10.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Yesterday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) joined Representatives Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Jared Polis (D-CO), and Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) in leading a letter sent to the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) regarding the Drug and Enforcement Administrations (DEA) Domestic Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program (DCE/SP). The letter, signed by eight bipartisan Members of Congress, requests that the GAO produce a report on the cost effectiveness of the DEA’s cannabis eradication program after it was reported that several states receiving DCE/SP funds failed to eradicate many marijuana plants, resulting in a waste of taxpayer money. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and the seven other Members of Congress write: “In an October 7 analysis of federal documents obtained through the Freedom of Information Act, the Washington Post reported that several states that received DCE/SP funds failed to eradicate many marijuana plants, if any. The state of Utah, for instance, received $73,000 in taxpayer money but did not find a single marijuana plant to eradicate.” “While the DEA’s Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program has been in effect nationwide for three decades, the recent trend in state laws to legalize and decriminalize the production, distribution or consumption of marijuana calls into question the necessity of such a program.” “Over half the states have now legalized marijuana in some form, yet the DEA continues to funnel millions of tax dollars every year into marijuana eradication. As Congress evaluates how to allocate government funds over the next fiscal year, it is critical that we have an accurate picture of what the DEA’s DCE/SP funds are being spent on, where, and how effectively.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
10.24.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter regarding news that thousands of California Guard members would be forced to repay their enlistment bonuses. Congressman Lieu worked on this issue when he was a State Senator in the California State Senate. In the letter, Mr. Lieu writes: “As a Member of the National Security Subcommittee of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I am requesting that you cease these collection efforts immediately until the end of this year.” “These Americans cannot go backwards in time and change their decision. They cannot take back the years that they served. Some or perhaps many may not have enlisted or re-enlisted but for the bonus. By forcing them to now repay their bonus deprives them of the freedom of choice of taking other opportunities they would have had years ago had they known they were not going to get a bonus.” “As someone who served on active duty and is still in the reserves, I find the current collection efforts by the Pentagon against these Americans to be wrong. It may take a change in the law to fix this situation. Give Congress the time to do so.” THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
10.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congressman Peter J. Roskam (R | Illinois) sent a letter to the Chairman of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), Rev. Thomas J. Reese, urging him to condemn the recently passed United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organizations (UNESCO) resolution, which denies Jewish and Christian ties to the Old City of Jerusalem and its holiest sites, the Temple Mount and the Western Wall. Last week, Congressman Lieu also issued a statement disapproving the passage of the draft resolution. Excerpt from the letter:"This resolution, Item 25 of the Executive Board's 200th session, titled "Occupied Palestine," contemptibly denies Jewish and Christian ties to the Old City of Jerusalem and its holiest sites, the Temple Mount and the Western Wall." "Your commission, tasked with the critical issue of defending the freedom of religion, can send a strong message by taking a firm stand against such bigoted resolutions. We hope you will join the many Members of Congress, from both parties, in speaking out against Item 25." THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE ###
10.18.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWashington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of the Saudi-led coalition’s intentional air strike on a funeral in Yemen. The Saudi coalition has admitted to intentionally targeting the funeral. "The Saudi-led military coalition has now essentially admitted to committing war crimes. The Saudi coalition blames their intentional strike on a funeral in Yemen on 'false information' that armed rebel leaders would be at the site. We know from this admission that this strike was not the result of an errant bomb or pilot error. The civilian funeral ceremony was the intended target of the Saudi coalition. “But even if some rebels had been present at the funeral, that would not justify an airstrike that targeted more than 650 civilians. Under the Law of Armed Conflict--which I taught when I served on active duty in the U.S. Air Force--military force cannot be used if it would cause disproportionate civilian casualties. Clearly in this case, with at least 140 civilians killed and over 525 injured, the military force used by the Saudi coalition was excessive and disproportional under the Law of War. “This airstrike is yet another example of a disturbing pattern where the Saudi coalition drops bombs on civilian targets nowhere near military targets, or drops bombs killing a disproportionate number of civilians. With over 70 unlawful coalition airstrikes on civilians documented by human rights groups, it is abundantly clear the Saudi coalition either does not understand the Law of War or does not care to follow it in many instances. “Defense and military officials in Saudi Arabia responsible for the funeral strike need to resign and be investigated for committing war crimes. The U.S. also needs to immediately cease aiding and abetting a Saudi coalition that has committed war crimes." ###
10.16.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the draft resolution passed by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). The controversial revisionist resolution, which the United States and European nations opposed, described Jerusalem's Temple Mount as a Muslim holy site without any reference to its historical Jewish or Christian ties. "Many people have told me that they have heard the following greeting upon entering the alternate reality known as UNESCO: Welcome to UNESCO, where we live in the land of make believe. The 'S' in our name actually stands for science fiction. We at UNESCO don't care about historical facts and some of our members are rabidly anti-Semitic and anti-Christian. That's why we at UNESCO like to pass bigoted resolutions, such as this silly one that revises history and denies the known Jewish and Christian connections to the Temple Mount. Please visit our alternate universe often, where you will see unicorns and flying dragons. But in the UNESCO alt-reality, you won't encounter any Jews or Christians because they don't exist." ###
10.13.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: CONGRESSMAN LIEU ON CYBERSECURITY AND ENSURING THE INTEGRITY OF THE BALLOT BOX Online, Rep. Lieu questions government agencies at the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s IT Subcommittee hearing on how to better protect our electronic voting machines and democratic process. “My understanding from the main thrust of your testimony is that because we’ve got 50 states, thousands of different jurisdictions, the American election system is complex, diverse, and robust because it is really hard to hack all of that. My view is that they don’t have to hack 50 states. In a close presidential election, they just need to hack just one swing state or maybe one or two or maybe just a few counties in one swing state.”“As a recovering Computer Science Major, keep in mind that folks hacked computers well before the existence of the Internet. We’ve had troubling reports of how these voting machines can be hacked quite easily.”“My hope is that we don’t have any more machines without paper ballots.” *** The Full Video of the Oversight hearing can be found HERE. ***
10.13.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Secretary John Kerry in light of troubling news that State Department lawyers knew the U.S. could be liable for war crimes in Yemen. Congressman Lieu’s Prior Actions: Mr. Lieu has repeatedly raised concerns regarding this issue. Last year, he sent a letter to General Joseph F. Dunford, the incoming chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, requesting further information about civilian deaths as a result of Saudi Arabian led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. A month later, Mr. Lieu joined Representatives Dingell and Ellison to lead a letter to President Obama on the Yemen airstrikes. In March 2016, Mr. Lieu sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Ash Carter expressing his deep concern over the tragic civilian deaths. In August 2016, Mr. Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending another letter to President Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. He also introduced House Joint Resolution 90 to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia. Senators Chris Murphy (CT) and Rand Paul (KY) introduced Senate Joint Resolution 32, the Senate companion to Mr. Lieu’s bill. Excerpts from the Letter: “I previously taught the Law of Armed Conflict when I served on active duty in the Air Force and am a graduate of Air War College. The frequency and scale of the civilian killings by the Saudi military coalition make it difficult to come to any conclusion other than that war crimes have been and are continuing to be committed in Yemen.” “Immediately stopping the aiding and abetting of the Saudi military coalition would not only help reduce the legal risk to U.S. officials, it would send a strong message to the world that the U.S. respects the Law of War and basic human rights. As you know, the State Department has an entire office dedicated to preventing foreign entities from committing war crimes. The credibility of that office has been shredded by the U.S.-enabled airstrikes on civilians in Yemen.” ***THE FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE *** ###
10.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: CONGRESSMAN LIEU INTERVIEW WITH CNN INTERNATIONAL ON TRUMP, NUCLEAR FIRST USE POLICY Online, Rep. Lieu discusses the need for Congress to approve a U.S. nuclear first strike and his legislative proposal to do just that. “If Donald Trump were President, it would be a catastrophe to give him the nuclear launch codes because he could have a bad night at 3AM and decide to do something horrible, which is why we’ve introduced this legislation.” “A nuclear first strike cannot depend on just one person who can destroy the world. The framers of the Constitution gave Congress the power to declare war – a nuclear first strike is war." ***The Full Video of the CNN International piece can be found HERE. ***
10.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement recognizing the South Bay Association of Chambers of Commerce (SBACC) as recipients of the 2016 Air Force Space Command Community Support Award. “The South Bay regional community has played a pivotal role in supporting the Los Angeles Air Force Base (LAAFB) and the headquarters for the United States Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC). The South Bay Association of Chambers of Commerce (SBACC) also plays a significant role with LAAFB by giving their continuous support on initiatives that enhance the quality of life for military personnel living in our South Bay communities.” “Since coming to Washington, I have had the pleasure of working with Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James to highlight the invaluable work of LAAFB and the strong relationship it enjoys with the South Bay community. I was honored that the Secretary accepted my invitation last year to visit LAAFB, where she was able to see firsthand the unique ability of the base, located in the South Bay aerospace cluster, to carry out the mission of SMC. As President of the Democratic Freshman Class and Air Force veteran, I have also worked to add context to the Air Force’s work in space for my colleagues. It is a great honor to have the LAAFB call the South Bay its home and for SBACC and the South Bay community to receive such a prestigious award.” ###
10.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. LIEU’S INTERVIEW WITH NEWSY ON U.S. NUCLEAR FIRST USE POLICY Online at Newsy, Rep. Lieu discusses the urgent need to reform U.S. nuclear first use policy. Most recently, Rep. Lieu introduced H.R. 6179, the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2016. This legislation would prohibit the President from launching a nuclear first strike without a declaration of war by Congress. “If you look at what it takes to launch nuclear weapons, it doesn’t take a lot.” “The current process is flat out unconstitutional. My view is that the framers of the Constitution would never have authorized this scenario. There is no way they would’ve said a nuclear first strike that can kill hunders of millions of people doesn’t mean war because it does mean war.” ***The Full Video of the Newsy piece can be found HERE. ***
10.05.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to the racist segment on Asian Americans featured on the O'Reilly Factor. "Note to Bill O'Reilly and Fox News: Your recent segment mocking Asian American voters and using every conceivable stereotype was, at best, racist and, at worst, really racist. I am not "patient" or "gentle" nor do I "bow" when I say hello or know "karate." So let me gently say this: if you are not racist at heart, then you would apologize. Immediately." ###
10.05.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWashington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding Massachusetts Senator Ed Markey’s release of a report on the existence of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in schools. “The stunning report from Senator Edward Markey on PCBs in schools shows that the EPA and school districts must do far more to address this toxic substance. The EPA and school districts can no longer pretend that if they don't test for PCBs, somehow this poisonous issue will just go away. Monsanto, which made PCBs, should be ashamed for putting so many children at risk. “I am grateful that America Unites for Kids and its President Jennifer deNicola have fought tirelessly to ensure that students are not exposed to harmful PCBs. This report, as well as the recent court ruling, vindicates America Unites and demonstrates that preserving the status quo is not an acceptable option for our children. “It is important that the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District swiftly complete its plans to remove PCBs from schools as ordered by the District Court. I also urge EPA to prioritize the issue of PCBs in schools and to work closely with school districts to ensure that the local community is not exposed to dangerous chemicals. I look forward to working with Senator Markey, America Unites and other stakeholders on this critical issue.” ###
10.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of the news that Yahoo, at the request of the NSA or the FBI, searched hundreds of millions of private emails. "If true, the government’s directive to Yahoo to write a software program and search all of its customers’ incoming emails for certain content is a gross abuse of federal power. Private sector companies and private citizens are not an arm of law enforcement or an extension of our intelligence agencies. “The Fourth Amendment to the Constitution is clear: government cannot search or seize your private information without a warrant. Law enforcement and the NSA did not have warrants for the hundreds of millions of customers that had their privacy violated. “This revelation is particularly troubling because Congress, on a bipartisan basis, reigned in the NSA’s unconstitutional bulk collection of phone records last year. It appears law enforcement and the NSA have continued to violate the Constitution and the American people’s right to privacy despite clear signals from Congress to follow the Constitution. Forcing a private sector company to search emails is even worse than the NSA’s bulk collection program because now the federal government is seizing and searching content, not just meta data, without a warrant. “This is big brother on steroids and it must be stopped." ###
10.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE “Across the United States, it comes down to this: People of means are able to pay their way out of jail, while the poor remain behind bars awaiting their day in court. Justice in America should not be bought and paid for. Our unjust money bail system must be reformed.” Congressman Ted Lieu | CA-33 WHOTed W. Lieu – U.S. Congressman Ingrid Archie – New Way of Life Margaret Dooley-Sammuli – ACLU, Director of Criminal Justice and Drug Policy Sharon Dolovich – UCLA School of Law, Director of Prison Law & Policy Program Keith S. Parker – UCLA, Assistant Vice Chancellor, Government & Community Relations WHATA media presentation and roundtable discussion on the urgent need to reform the U.S. money bail system. WHEREUCLA’s School of Law | Room 1430385 Charles E. Young Drive East, Los Angeles, CA 90024 ***Parking is available in Lot 2*** WHENThursday October 6th, 2016 | 5:30p – 7:30p RSVP LINKhttps://bailbondreform.app.rsvpify.com/ BACKGROUND On February 24, 2016, Congressman Lieu introduced the “No Money Bail Act of 2016,” a bail reform bill that seeks to eliminate the use of money bail because no one should be held in jail solely because of the inability to pay bail. The bill has been endorsed by a number of leading advocacy organizations. A fact sheet on the “No Money Bail Act of 2016” can be found here. ***
09.30.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and 27 Members of California’s congressional delegation have sent a letter to University of California President Janet Napolitano regarding the University’s contract negotiations with postdoctoral scholars. The letter expresses strong support for benefits, including fair pay and protections against abusive conduct, for postdoctoral scholars. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and California delegation members write:“We are concerned that certain obstacles undermine the University’s ability to attract and retain the most promising and accomplished scholars, especially women and people of color… The University can make meaningful progress on recruiting and retaining talented scientists by strengthening labor protections and benefits in the current contract negotiations.” The full text of Mr. Lieu’s letter. ###
09.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement in response to the Federal Communications Commission’s removal of the set top box item from the September 29, 2016 Open Meeting agenda. Last week, Congressman Lieu joined 63 Democrats on a letter to the FCC calling for a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding a set top box proposal in order to address copyright and other content community concerns. “I commend Federal Communications Commission chairman Wheeler for delaying action on the set top box proposal to allow more time to make improvements and build further consensus. Opening up the process for a more conventional Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking would be the best way to ensure that any proposal receives proper public input and resolves issues surrounding copyrights, privacy and diversity. More choice for consumers does not need to be mutually exclusive of protecting content creators and personal privacy.” ###
09.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) released the following statement regarding President Barack Obama signing into law H.R. 5936, the Los Angeles Homeless Veterans Leasing Act of 2016. The law--authored by Congressman Lieu and Congressman Jeff Miller--authorizes the VA Secretary to enter into leases at the West Los Angeles VA to provide for permanent supportive housing and services including legal representation, spiritual enrichment, vocational training, addiction treatment and recreational opportunities. Upon President Obama’s signature, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: "I am extremely grateful that President Obama signed this important legislation for Veterans into law today. This is a significant first step and now we must complete the mission by revitalizing the West Los Angeles VA to make it a truly Veteran-centric campus. With the leasing tools provided in the legislation, our existing coalition can now work to create a thriving campus of respect and healing for our nation’s heroes and build 1,200 units of supportive housing for homeless Veterans. We cannot solve the issue of Veterans homelessness in America without solving it in Los Angeles County. “Today's success is a collective victory of countless individuals and groups, including VA Secretary Bob McDonald and Special Assistant Vince Kane, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Senate Veterans Affairs’ Committee Chair Johnny Isakson, and House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chair Jeff Miller. I also want to give special recognition to Representative Mark Takano, acting Ranking Member of the House VA Committee, who helped navigate our bill through the House. The efforts on the ground included a collective of Veterans, Veteran Service Organizations, local elected officials, community members, providers, the City of Los Angeles and the County of Los Angeles. None of this could even have been possible had it not been for the courage and dedication of Veteran plaintiffs; Bobby Shriver; the ACLU; Public Counsel; the law firm of Munger, Tolles & Olson and their subject matter expert Dr. Jonathan Sherin. “Today we are handed a precious opportunity. We must rededicate ourselves to caring for our nation's Veterans so that every day can be Veterans Day in Los Angeles County.” Upon President Obama’s signature, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti issued the following statement: "The legislation signed today by President Obama will change the lives of Veterans in our city. The West Los Angeles Veterans Affairs Master Plan is critical to ensuring that people who have worn our nation’s uniform get the housing and supportive services they need. It breathes new life into the West L.A. VA campus, and will create a supportive space where veterans can receive the care and attention they deserve. “This Master Plan calls for 1,200 units of permanent supportive housing on the campus, which will support chronically homeless, aging and disabled veterans — as well as female survivors of military sexual trauma. I will not stop fighting until Los Angeles ends chronic homelessness among our veterans once and for all, and want to thank Representatives Ted Lieu, Jeff Miller, and Mark Takano, and Senators Dianne Feinstein, Johnny Isakson, and Richard Blumenthal for their leadership." ###
09.28.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) joined Congresswomen Grace Meng (D-NY) in introducing the Ban Poisonous Additives Act of 2016. This legislation would ban the use of Bisphenol -A (BPA) in food containers and require a warning label on any food container containing BPA during the phase out. The legislation would also prohibit replacing BPA with another carcinogenic, toxic or endocrine disrupting chemical such as Bisphenol -F (BPF) or Bisphenol -S (BPS). Last year, Mr. Lieu received a letter from students at Mira Costa High School in Manhattan Beach, CA to take action on the BPA issue. Today’s legislation is inspired by those young voices calling for change in their school and community. Upon introduction of this legislation, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: “Despite strong scientific evidence that BPA, BPF and BPS have a harmful effect on the health of women, infants and children, it continues to be used in food containers and cans. The Ban Poisonous Additives Act of 2015 will take BPA out of our children’s food containers and cans and ensure that it is not replaced with equally dangerous BPF or BPS. I would like to thank Representative Meng for her leadership and the students of Mira Costa High School in Manhattan Beach for bringing concerns about Bisphenols to our attention.” FURTHER BACKGROUND Scientific studies show that BPA, the chemical used in polycarbonate plastic for more than 50 years, can disrupt estrogen production, cause cancer and may be linked to reproductive development effects. California banned the use of BPA in food containers designed for infants and toddlers in 2011 and declared BPA to be a reproductive health hazard in 2013. The Federal government joined California and phased out BPA, but allowed manufacturers to replace BPA with similar endocrine disruptors such as BPS. 75% of cans in the United States are lined with BPA. ###
09.28.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has sent a letter to Brigadier General (ret.) Greg Touhill, Federal Chief Information Security Officer, inquiring about how Congress can help federal agencies better address their cybersecurity needs. Mr. Lieu’s letter comes on the heels of several high profile hacks of the federal government and the Democratic National Committee. Also, at present, federal agencies have not yet implemented over 1,000 recommendations by the General Accounting Office on cybersecurity. In the letter, Mr. Lieu asks the following crucial questions: In your view, why have federal agencies failed to implement the numerous GAO recommendations to improve their cybersecurity? What can Congress do to help agencies better address their cybersecurity needs? Are there GAO recommendations that you believe should not be implemented? The full text of Mr. Lieu’s letter. ###
09.27.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Senator Ed Markey (D-Massachusetts) introduced H.R. 6179, the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2016. This legislation would prohibit the President from launching a nuclear first strike without a declaration of war by Congress. The crucial issue of nuclear first use – discussed in last evening’s Presidential Debate – is all the more urgent given the fact that a majority of Americans do not trust Republican Nominee Donald Trump with our nation’s nuclear arsenal. Upon introduction of this legislation, Senator Markey issued the following statement: “Nuclear war poses the gravest risk to human survival. Unfortunately, by maintaining the option of using nuclear weapons first in a conflict, U.S. policy increases the risk of unintended nuclear escalation. The President should not use nuclear weapons except in response to a nuclear attack. This legislation enshrines this simple principle into law. I thank Rep. Lieu for his partnership on this common-sense bill during this critical time in our nation’s history.” Upon introduction of this legislation, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: "Our Founding Fathers would be rolling over in their graves if they knew the President could launch a massive, potentially civilization-ending military strike without authorization from Congress. Our Constitution created a government based on checks and balances and gave the power to declare war solely to the people’s representatives. A nuclear first strike, which can kill hundreds of millions of people and invite a retaliatory strike that can destroy America, is war. The current nuclear launch approval process, which gives the decision to potentially end civilization as we know it to a single individual, is flatly unconstitutional. I am proud to introduce the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2016 with Sen. Markey to realign our nation’s nuclear weapons launch policy with the Constitution.” Praise for the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2016 William J. Perry, Former Secretary of Defense – “During my period as Secretary of Defense, I never confronted a situation, or could even imagine a situation, in which I would recommend that the President make a first strike with nuclear weapons—understanding that such an action, whatever the provocation, would likely bring about the end of civilization. I believe that the legislation proposed by Congressman Lieu and Senator Markey recognizes that terrible reality. Certainly a decision that momentous for all of civilization should have the kind of checks and balances on Executive powers called for by our Constitution.” Tom Z. Collina, Policy Director of Ploughshares Fund – “Current US nuclear policy is undemocratic and unconstitutional. In the realm of nuclear weapons, the United States is closer to a dictatorship than a democracy. The President has absolute authority to use nuclear weapons, and Congress has been cut out. It is time to bring democracy to nuclear policy, and Rep. Lieu and Sen. Markey’s bill moves us in that direction.” Megan Amundson, Executive Director of Women’s Action for New Directions (WAND) – “Rep. Lieu and Sen. Markey have rightly called out the dangers of only one person having his or her finger on the nuclear button. The potential misuse of this power in the current global climate has only magnified this concern. It is time to make real progress toward lowering the risk that nuclear weapons are ever used again, and this legislation is a good start.” Catherine Thomasson, MD, Executive Director of Physicians for Social Responsibility – "We must understand that our own nuclear weapons pose an unacceptable risk to our national security. The "successful" use of our own nuclear arsenal would cause catastrophic climate disruption around the world including here in the United States. These weapons are suicide bombs, and no one individual should have the power to introduce them into a conflict. The Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2016 is an important step to lessen the chance these weapons will be used." Congressman Lieu is a member of the National Security Subcommittee of the House Oversight Committee. ###
09.23.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in celebration of Vin Scully Day. “I am delighted to join Angelenos, as well as millions of other baseball fans far and wide, to celebrate a living sports legend on Vin Scully Day. Vin’s unmatched brilliant broadcasting of Dodgers baseball games for 67 years amounts to one of the most amazing careers in all of professional sports. Vin’s voice has informed and enthralled our grandparents, our parents, and our children since 1949, having been the only voice Los Angeles has known to call games for our beloved Dodgers. Los Angeles is united in thanking Vin Scully for all that he has given us. Vin will always remain treasured in our hearts, where it will always be “Time for Dodgers’ Baseball!” ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement in response to the United States Department of Transportation’s release of its Federal Automated Vehicles Policy. Congressman Lieu co-introduced the Security and Privacy in Your Car Act of 2015 with Congressman Joe Wilson (R | SC) in November, 2015. “As an original cosponsor of the Security and Privacy in Your Car Act, I am pleased that the Department of Transportation (DOT) has prioritized privacy, safety and cybersecurity in promulgating its guidelines on automated vehicles. Partially automated vehicles in the marketplace – such as those with assisted braking and park-assist – have demonstrated the benefits to traffic safety that automated vehicles can offer, provided that automated vehicle manufacturers and operators follow the guidelines to make cybersecurity and safety a priority.” “DOT’s decision to offer guidelines rather than regulation allows industry and government to adapt quickly to rapidly changing technology, but only if the guidelines are revisited regularly. I commend DOT’s collaborative approach in developing these guidelines to harmonize with existing industry best practices. With the recent hack of a Tesla sedan by Chinese researchers serving as the latest reminder of security vulnerabilities in connected cars, we must act with urgency to keep our families safe from automotive cyber threats.” ###
09.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) introduced the Legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act of 2016. This legislation would authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs to enter into agreements with third parties to provide pro bono legal services to homeless and at-risk Veterans across the country. A recent study by the VA found that at least five out of the top 10 problems leading to homelessness among Veterans cannot be solved without legal help. Upon introduction of his legislation, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: “Affordable legal services are a key component to solving Veteran homelessness, but the VA does not presently have the flexibility it needs to adequately fund those services. We must do more to fuel partnerships between law firms and civil legal-aid, community health and housing organizations that are doing cutting-edge work to address Veteran homelessness in Los Angeles and across the nation. The Legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act is an important step to ensure that no Veteran who has served our nation in uniform ever needs to fight for a roof over their head.” Support for the Legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act of 2016: Charles E. Schmidt, National Commander of the American Legion – "Veterans have defended our constitutional rights. We need to ensure that the favor is returned when veterans are facing legal challenges. The American Legion believes that homeless and at-risk veterans deserve strong representation when dealing with eviction or routine legal matters. We hope that Congress will support Representative Lieu's legislation. The American Legion will always be an advocate for veterans in need.” Ray Kelley, National Legislative Affairs Director of the Veterans of Foreign Wars – “The Veterans of Foreign Wars is proud to support this common sense solution that will assist homeless veterans with their legal hurdles. We are happy to see Representative Lieu taking issues like this head on, and we look forward to hearing about the successful outcomes this bill will bring.” Garry Augustine, Executive Director of Disabled American Veterans – “DAV is pleased to support Representative Lieu’s Legal Services For Homeless Veterans Act of 2016, which will afford legal services to homeless and at-risk veterans. Too often, veterans struggling with homelessness fall into a pattern which makes them unable to find stability and establish employment and a permanent residence. These critical legal services, made available through partnerships with the Department of Veterans Affairs, will address this largely unmet need and help veterans overcome barriers and break free from the cycle of homelessness.” Ellen Lawton, Co-Director of the National Center for Medical-Legal Partnership at The George Washington University – "Civil legal problems — from threatened evictions to other-than-honorable discharges from the military that prevent a veteran from accessing critical income benefits — are often the greatest obstacles to a veteran’s health, housing, stability, and productivity. But while the VA has long realized the impact of legal problems on housing and health, it is restricted from funding critical legal services. The Legal Services for Homeless Vets bill opens the door for tens of thousands of our nation's veterans to get the care they need to become stably housed." Martha Bergmark, Executive Director of Voices for Civil Justice – "For a veteran, legal help can mean the difference between having a home and living on the street. Congressman Lieu's bill will enable the VA to forge stronger partnerships with civil legal aid programs in order to provide vital assistance to veterans across the country.” ###
09.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Representative Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of a report in the Wall Street Journal that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is investigating the Exxon Mobil Corporation over its carbon pricing and asset valuation practices. In October 2015, Representatives Lieu, DeSaulnier, Welch, and Cartwright sent a letter to the SEC requesting that it launch an investigation into whether ExxonMobil violated certain securities laws in connection with climate change. “Over the last year, my Democratic colleagues and I have urged the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice to investigate ExxonMobil’s fraudulent actions on climate change. I commend the SEC for its leadership in investigating ExxonMobil. Now it’s time for the DOJ and the FBI to follow suit and work to hold ExxonMobil accountable for defrauding the American people on the fierce and urgent issue of climate change.” ###
09.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) introduced bipartisan legislation to block the proposed arms sale to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The legislation was co-led by Congressman Mick Mulvaney (R | South Carolina) and Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D | Hawaii) and has been introduced in the Senate by Sens. Rand Paul, Chris Murphy, Al Franken and Mike Lee.“There is overwhelming evidence that the Saudi-led Coalition in Yemen is bombing innocent civilians in Yemen. When hospitals and schools become military targets, this is cause for serious concern, not just for our national security but also for our moral standing around the world. My legislation begins the process in the House of Representatives to block the proposed arms sale to Saudi Arabia. The United States of America should not be aiding and abetting these atrocities and should immediately halt any activity to sell additional arms to the Saudis.” Additional Background In August 2016, Congressman Lieu led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The letter raised concerns regarding the Saudi-led Coalition’s killing of civilians. Previously, Congressman Lieu had repeatedly raised similar concerns, sending letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter. He also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia. THE FULL TEXT OF THE LEGISLATION CAN BE FOUND HERE. ###
09.19.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of the United States Senate’s passage of the West Los Angeles Leasing Act of 2016 - H.R. 5936. This legislation originated in the House of Representatives and was authored by Congressman Lieu. Senator Dianne Feinstein authored the Senate version of this legislation in September, 2015. “I applaud the Senate’s passage of the West Los Angeles Leasing Act of 2016, which authorizes the VA to implement the Master Plan for the West L.A. VA campus. First and foremost, I want to thank Senator Dianne Feinstein for her leadership, without which this bill would not have been passed." “This legislation now heads to President Obama’s desk for his signature into law. When enacted, this legislation will enable the VA to construct 1,200 units of housing for homeless Veterans at the West L.A. VA and offer new robust services on the campus such as vocational training, recreation and spiritual support. The legislation also ensures that all leases on the campus principally benefit Veterans and strengthen the partnership between the VA and leaseholders." “Today’s legislative victory amounts to a giant leap forward in our efforts to restore the West L.A. VA as a beacon of service to L.A. County’s Veteran community. It is a giant leap forward in our collective mission to honor the debt we owe to America’s Veteran heroes.” ###
09.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Congressman Ted W. Lieu’s (D | Los Angeles County) interview with Chelsea Handler for her new show “Chelsea” is streaming now on Netflix. In the interview, Mr. Lieu explores his immigrant journey to serve in the U.S. Air Force and in Congress, reflects on passing three bills in one year on Capitol Hill and examines how CA-33 constituents – such as Ms. Handler – can advocate for the issues that matter most to them. WATCH REP. LIEU’S INTERVIEW WITH CHELSEA HANDLER HERE. ###
09.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Online at The Hill, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Gallego, Members of Congress and Veterans of the U.S. Military, explain why climate change is a serious threat to America’s national security. “As members of Congress and veterans of the U.S. military, we know human-caused climate change is real and poses a significant threat to America’s national security.” “Climate change has the potential to dramatically increase instability across the developing world, unleashing a host of new threats. Our military will inevitably be called upon to meet these challenges." “As we saw in Paris, when the United States leads, other nations join us in elevating their climate ambitions. We have an urgent responsibility to take the necessary steps today that will allow future generations to avoid climate chaos and the security threats it poses.” *** The Full Text of the The Hill piece can be found HERE. ***
09.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) announced that seven organizations serving Los Angeles City and County received more than $13 million in grants from the Department of Veterans Affairs to fund programs to help end veteran homelessness. The grants will fund support programs for veterans facing homelessness in Los Angeles City and County through the following organizations: New Directions, Inc., Mental Health America of Los Angeles, 1736 Family Crisis Center, People Assisting the Homeless (PATH), Salvation Army – a California Corporation, United Veterans Initiative and Volunteers of America of Los Angeles, Inc. Mr. Lieu also made the following statement regarding the grants: “We can’t end Veteran homelessness in the United States without ending it in Los Angeles County. This latest round of VA grants to seven organizations in L.A. County is a strong step forward in our collective mission to ensure that no man or woman who has served the United States in uniform has to fight for a roof over their heads when their tour of duty is complete. I look forward to working with these seven organizations to honor and care for our community of Veteran heroes.” ###
09.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: CONGRESSMAN LIEU PENS OP-ED ON WHY “CONGRESS SHOULD ASK WHAT EXXON KNEW ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE” Online today at The Sacramento Bee, Mr. Lieu explains why Congress has an obligation to look out for Americans who are facing the toll of climate change. “ExxonMobil, which became and remains one of the biggest companies in the world by burning fossil fuels, knew for decades that its product was causing climate change. Exxon’s own scientists warned their bosses that the consequences would be “catastrophic.”“I didn’t expect the House Science Committee to join the #ExxonKnew investigation on behalf of ExxonMobil. House Committees are public trusts, not arms of industry.”“Congress should not be defending Exxon, which has already spent decades and tens of millions of dollars deceiving the public about the realities of climate change. America deserves a Congress that is looking out for Americans first.” ***THE FULL TEXT OF THE SACRAMENTO BEE PIECE CAN BE FOUND HERE. *** ###
09.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5936, the West Los Angeles Leasing Act of 2016. The legislation incorporates the full text of H.R. 3484, a prior bill introduced by Congressman Lieu to authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs to use enhanced-use leases at the West LA VA campus. Enhanced-use leases are critical to the Master Plan. Today’s legislation, authored by Representatives Lieu and Jeff Miller, allows the VA to implement the campus’ Master Plan with enhanced-use leases. “I am pleased the House of Representatives passed the West Los Angeles Leasing Act of 2016, which authorizes the VA to implement the Master Plan for the West L.A. VA campus. Today represents a giant leap forward in restoring the property to the Old Soldiers’ Home it was always intended to be. If enacted, this legislation will enable the VA to construct 1,200 units of housing for homeless veterans at the West L.A. VA and offer new robust services on the campus such as vocational training, recreation and spiritual support. The legislation also ensures that all leases on the campus principally benefit Veterans and strengthen the partnership between the VA and leaseholders.” Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert A. McDonald also issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 5936: "Today, the House of Representatives took an important step towards revitalizing our West L.A. VA Medical Center campus and truly making it a home for our most vulnerable homeless Veterans. Together, we have made tremendous progress in Los Angeles bringing at-risk and homeless veterans into care and providing them the services they need to have a roof over their head and a path to rebuild their lives. We are grateful to Congressman Lieu and Senators Feinstein and Boxer for their partnership and for bringing this legislation forward. We look forward to the Senate passing legislative language on West L.A. as well." Congressman Lieu offered additional comment as well: “I want to acknowledge the leadership of VA Secretary McDonald and the tireless work of his team this past year in developing the Master Plan. I also want to thank Senator Dianne Feinstein for her leadership in authoring companion legislation in the U.S. Senate, and House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller and Acting Ranking Member Mark Takano for helping to guide this legislation to passage in the House. I am confident Sen. Feinstein will now take this legislation across the finish line in the Senate.” “Finally, I want to recognize the contributions of vital local stakeholders, including veterans, veterans service organizations, the plaintiff partners, providers, and the community for their collaborative effort and unprecedented support this past year. Without this cooperation, the Master Plan and progress on this legislation would not have been possible. Today’s actions help us move forward on our unwavering mission to honor the debt we owe our nation's veterans." ###
09.09.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Yesterday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) was presented with the 2016 Freshman MVP Award for this year’s House Democrats’ Member Online All-Star Competition, the annual Member social media contest hosted by House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer. Congressman Lieu gained 4,185 new social media followers on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube in part by advocating for an end to the influence Super PACs have on elections, testifying against LGBT discrimination, calling for common sense gun legislation, and well-received questioning of FBI Director James Comey. House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer presents Congressman Ted Lieu with the 2016 Freshman MVP award ###
09.02.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement today in honor of Labor Day, which will be celebrated on Monday, September 5. “This Labor Day we honor the millions of hard-working men and women across the United States. Decades ago workers successfully banded together to demand fair wages and working conditions. Too often today we lose sight of the tremendous gains the labor movement has made for all American workers and our economy. That is why every Labor Day I plan to highlight two individuals whose work has improved the lives of American workers.” Eugene Debs Born in Terre Haute, Indiana, Eugene V. Debs was a prominent labor organizer in the 1800s. Early in his career, Debs was involved in the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen. He later founded the American Railway Union, which was one of the first industrial unions in the nation. While leading the Pullman Strike, Debs was jailed for his actions. However, undeterred by resistance to the labor movement, Debs continued to travel the country advocating for the rights of workers throughout his life. To learn more about Debs, please visit https://debsfoundation.org/index.php/landing/debs-biography/. Larry Itliong Larry Itliong was a Filipino farm worker and labor organizer in California. In 1965, Itliong led more than 1,000 workers in the Delano Grape Strike demanding better wages. During this time Itliong also worked with Cesar Chavez, bringing together Filipino and Mexican laborers, to organize the United Farm Workers. Itliong’s work, particularly with the Delano Grape Strike, was critical in sparking the farm worker movement. In 2015, to honor the legacy of Itliong, Governor Brown signed legislation marking October 25 as Larry Itliong Day. To learn more about Itliong, please visit https://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/19/us/larry-itliong-forgotten-filipino-labor-leader.html?_r=0. ###
09.02.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Trans-Pacific Partnership. “Last year, I voted against Trade Promotion Authority because I did not believe a trade agreement with questionable environmental and labor provisions should be fast tracked for ratification. As I review the text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership today, my concerns have only worsened. I will not support an unfair trade deal that lacks enforceable environmental and labor standards. Specifically, I believe trade agreements must uphold President Obama’s and other landmark climate regulations. They must ensure the protection of the environment, fish, and wildlife. Moreover, any agreement must put American workers first and strengthen, not weaken, labor protections. It is unclear whether or not TPP will receive a vote in Congress this year, but in the meantime I will continue to listen to the deep concerns of my constituents.” ###
09.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’s initiatives to prevent veteran and servicementer suicides. “As we mark the beginning of Suicide Prevention Month, let us all take the opportunity to educate our friends and communities about the very tragic facts of Veteran suicide and the role we can play to prevent it. In 2014, 20 Veterans died by suicide every day. The good news is that each of us can make a critical difference in the life of a Veteran or Service member with a simple act of kindness—calling an old friend, talking to a neighbor, or exploring the resources available through the VA. We can and must do better to protect those who have protected us in uniform. Today and every day, let us do our part to spread the word and #BeThere for our Veterans and Service members.” “If you know someone in need of assistance, call the VA’s Veterans Crisis Line: Call 1-800-273-8255 and Press 1; chat online at VeteransCrisisLine.net/Chat or text to 838255 — even if a Veteran is not registered with VA or enrolled in VA health care.” ###
08.31.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the rededication of the California Incline in Santa Monica. “I am delighted that the much-anticipated California Incline is being rededicated tomorrow. Residents of Santa Monica and thousands of visitors each year will enjoy the streamlined modern design of the stronger bridge and the spectacular view of the Pacific Ocean. In addition, the bridge now has a shared pedestrian and bicycle path, consistent with Santa Monica’s dedication to a relaxed and enjoyable lifestyle.” “Nearly 90% of the reconstruction project was funded by the Federal Highway Bridge Program through the Federal Highway Trust Fund. Last summer, I hosted a press conference at the incline with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and local elected leaders highlighting the need for infrastructure investment. I am pleased Congress passed the reauthorization of the Highway Trust Fund. The California Incline is precisely the type of project to benefit from these critical federal funds. I want to congratulate the City of Santa Monica for its leadership on completing this important project and I look forward to visiting the California Incline with my family to appreciate the beautiful vistas.” ###
08.30.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to Secretary John Kerry urging the State Department to request that Japanese authorities investigate and prosecute Olympus for civil or criminal misconduct in their mishandling of antibiotic-resistant bacteria infections caused by their medical devices. The letter reads: “Reports indicate that Japanese device company Olympus Corp. knowingly failed to alert and warn American hospitals, doctors and patients about its defective medical scope, the duodenoscope. In doing so, Olympus deliberately endangered the lives of thousands of American patients undergoing procedures using its medical scope and killed scores of Americans. Internal emails now reveal that Olympus executives in Japan purposely told U.S. executives to not issue warnings associated with its medical scope devices, leading to antibiotic-resistant “superbug” outbreaks, infections, and deaths in hospitals all across the country. Because this issue poses both health and national security risks--and because Americans have died as a result of Olympus' actions--it is imperative that the State Department coordinate with the appropriate Japanese authorities to have them investigate and prosecute Olympus.” ###
08.30.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) led a bipartisan group of 64 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to postpone the sale of new arms to Saudi Arabia. The goal is to give Congress sufficient time to debate the merits of the deal in light of the Saudi-led Coalition’s operational conduct in Yemen. The letter is co-led by Reps. Ted Yoho (R-FL), John Conyers (D-MI), and Mick Mulvaney (R-SC). Congressman Lieu has previously raised concerns about the Coalition’s killing of civilians in letters to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff last September and to Secretaries John Kerry and Ash Carter in March. He has also introduced legislation to establish new guidelines for weapons sales to Saudi Arabia.QUOTE FROM REP. LIEU:“The actions of the Saudi-led Coalition in Yemen are as reprehensible as they are illegal. The multiple, repeated airstrikes on civilians look like war crimes. Hospitals, schools, and wedding parties are not legitimate military targets. Saudi Arabia is either intentionally targeting civilians or deliberately indifferent in executing its military operations – either case flies in the face of long-standing international standards of conduct. The United States of America should never support such atrocities in any way. They are not only immoral and unlawful, but they seriously harm our national security and moral standing around the world.” QUOTE FROM REP. YOHO:“I am concerned with the timing of this notification and believe the people’s representatives in Congress should be given adequate time to scrutinize and debate such sales.” EXCERPT FROM LETTER:“The [Saudi’s] military campaign has had a deeply troubling impact on civilians . . . Any decision to sell more arms to Saudi Arabia should be given adequate time for full deliberation by Congress. We are concerned, however, that the timing of this notification during the August congressional recess could be interpreted to mean that Congress has little time to consider the arms deal when it returns from recess within the 30 day window established by law.” FULL LIST OF CO-SIGNERS:Amash, Bass, Blumenauer, Beyer, Brownley, Capps, Capuano, Chu, Cicilline, Clark (MA), Cleaver II, Cohen, Conyers, Crowley, Danny Davis, DeFazio, Doggett, Edwards, Ellison, Eshoo, Farr, Gabbard, Grayson, Grijalva, Hastings, Honda, Huffman, Jones, Hank Johnson, Keating, Lee, Lewis, Lieu, Loebsack, Lofgren, Lowenthal, Lujan, Lynch, Nolan, McDermott, McGovern, Moore, Mulvaney, Nadler, Napolitano, Neal, Norton, Pallone, Pascrell, Payne Jr., Peterson, Pingree, Pocan, Polis, Price, Rush, Schakowsky, Tonko, Tsongas, Van Hollen, Watson Coleman, Wilson, Yarmuth, Yoho ENDORSED BY: Oxfam, Amnesty International USA, International Christian Concern, Friends Committee on National Legislation (Quakers), Just Foreign Policy, Americans for Democracy & Human Rights in Bahrain, Hudson Institute’s Center for Religious Freedom, Yemen Peace Project, Human Rights Watch, American Friends Service Committee (AFSC), Physicians for Human Rights, Christian Solidarity Worldwide – UK, In Defense of Christians, Jubilee Campaign USA, The Hudson Institute Center for Religious Freedom, International Christian Concern THE TEXT OF THE LETTER CAN BE FOUND HERE. ###
08.25.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement in response to reports about serious security vulnerabilities in Apple’s iOS operating system. So-called ‘digital arms dealers’ have developed software that can expose a phone user’s location, passwords, text messages, emails, calls and contact lists. “As a computer science major, I am incredibly alarmed, but unfortunately not surprised, by the discovery of significant security vulnerabilities in one of our country’s most prolific smartphone operating systems. The fact that over two thirds of adults in the United States own a smartphone makes the device a natural target for bad actors, and we as a nation have thus far failed to take the threat seriously. From the SS7 network to iOS, vulnerabilities in our communications systems have made it possible for foreign governments, criminal syndicates and hackers to target individuals and have near-full access to everything we say or do on our smartphone. Today’s announcement follows news last week that an anonymous group had stolen a jackpot of hacking tools to exploit “zero-day” vulnerabilities from the National Security Agency and published them for all the world to use.” “I am pleased that Apple was able to quickly address this security breach, but it is clear that Congress must do more to address the issues of mobile security. I believe a congressional hearing is in order and plan to work with my colleagues to examine these critical security concerns. I also again urge the Administration to disclose the criteria used in determining whether to notify cyber vulnerabilities to private sector companies rather than hoard and conceal the vulnerabilities. Whatever our government may do in terms of using cyber malware, others will do to American citizens. The best protection for the United States and our people is to have secure systems.” Additional Background: Congressman Lieu has been a leading congressional advocate for stronger cyber security and privacy measures to protect consumers, especially when it comes to mobile devices. He was featured on 60 Minutes earlier this year in a story exposing a major weakness in our global mobile network and recently sent a letter to the FCC asking them to expedite their investigation into the flaw. ###
08.25.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the National Park Service’s Centennial. "As the famous Greek proverb states: ‘Society grows great when old men plant trees whose shade they know they shall never sit in.’ One hundred years ago, our predecessors had the foresight to create the National Park Service to protect and preserve our nation’s most treasured lands. Like many Californians, I’ve had the good fortune to hike through the most iconic parks, such as Yosemite, and explore local treasures like the Santa Monica Mountains right here in the 33rd District. National Parks and National Recreation Areas offer countless opportunities for recreation and exploration; and they remind us of our shared responsibility to preserve these lands for future generations to enjoy. “I am grateful to the dedicated public servants at the National Park Service and remain determined to uphold our nation’s commitment to protecting our public lands. This year, my family and I are celebrating the centennial by exploring more of America's natural beauties. I encourage you to find your park as well, and I hope you'll do your part to protect our environment." Background on Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area: In addition to caring for our 59 national parks, the National Park Service oversees millions more acres of public lands, including the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. Designated as part of the National Park System in 1978, the Santa Monica Mountains span thousands of acres in California's 33rd District. The area is visited by hundreds of thousands of visitors each year and home to numerous animal and plant species, including mountain lions and chaparral. More about the National Recreation Area can be found at www.nps.gov/samo. ###
08.24.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has requested that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) expedite its investigation into the Signaling System Number 7 (SS7) cell phone protocol security flaw and update victims of the recent Democratic and Republican campaign hacks on its findings to date. Citing the recent hacking of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and Republican Congressional Campaign Committee by foreign hackers, possibly connected with Russian intelligence, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to FCC Chairman Thomas Wheeler requesting that the SS7 investigation be expedited and that the FCC update members of Congress affected by the recent hacks on the findings to date. “The SS7 problem is no longer a theoretical threat. We now have a mass release of cell phone numbers of Members of Congress likely caused by a Russian government that has full access to utilize the SS7 flaw,” wrote Congressman Lieu. Congressman Lieu also cited additional threats to American elections and national security that the hack and SS7 flaw could pose in combination with each other, stating that, “[o]ther enemy adversaries, such as North Korea and Iran, could also take this information and acquire the cell phone voice and text data of multiple Members of Congress. The ramifications of the SS7 flaw can be severe, both for our national security and the integrity of American elections.” Background On April 16, 2016, German researchers on the television show “60 Minutes” revealed a flaw in the SS7 protocol that allows sophisticated hackers, such as foreign governments and international crime syndicates to intercept cell phone conversations, data and text messages as long as they know the phone number and mobile carrier network. In response to the revelations, the FCC opened up an investigation into the SS7 flaw on April 20, 2016 and requested that mobile carriers provide information with respect to the timing and methods used to issue security updates to their devices. SS7 is a cell telephony protocol that is used in most countries throughout the world. *** A copy of the letter can be found HERE. *** ###
08.24.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to the Santa Monica City Council’s adoption of a resolution to close the Santa Monica Airport as soon as legally permitted. The resolution also calls for the adoption of a policy to establish exclusive public proprietary Fixed Based Operations (FBO) Services. The measure was passed by the City Council on Tuesday, August 23, 2016. “For years the City of Santa Monica has been dragged into administrative and legal proceedings by the FAA, so I am delighted that with this resolution they have now taken the airport’s destiny into their own hands. Closing the airport is based on the City of Santa Monica’s local control and property rights. I whole-heartedly stand behind the residents of the City of Santa Monica and the City Council as they take significant steps to close the airport.” ###
08.24.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Online at The Intercept, reporter Ben Norton covers Rep. Lieu’s serious concerns over U.S. backing for the Saudi-led war in Yemen. “Ted Lieu, a Democrat representing Los Angeles County, served in the Air Force and is a colonel in the Air Force Reserves. The brutal bombings of civilian areas with U.S.-supplied planes and weapons has led him to act when most of his colleagues have stayed silent.” “I taught the law of war when I was on active duty. You can’t kill children, newlyweds, doctors and patients — those are exempt targets under the law of war, and the coalition has been repeatedly striking civilians. So it is very disturbing to me. It is even worse that the U.S. is aiding this coalition.” “By assisting Saudi Arabia, the United States is aiding and abetting what appears to be war crimes in Yemen. The administration must stop enabling this madness now.” *** The Full Text of The Intercept piece can be found HERE. ***
08.19.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the U.S. Justice Department filing an amicus brief in the 11th Circuit Court on Friday arguing that requiring inmates to pay bail to be released before a trial violates their rights guaranteed under the Fourteenth Amendment. Congressman Lieu previously introduced H.R. 4611, the No Money Bail Act, which would prohibit the use of paid bail in federal criminal cases. "I applaud the Justice Department (DOJ) for taking action to argue what many have long known to be true: Our money bail system is unjust, ineffective, and in violation of our 14th Amendment rights. We cannot both be a nation that believes in the principle of innocent until proven guilty, yet incarcerate over 450,000 Americans who have not been convicted of a crime solely because they cannot afford bail. America should not be a country where freedom is based on income. "It is high time for our nation to follow the lead of the several cities and states across America that have taken steps to replace money bail with a risk-assessment system. The No Money Bail Act is the no-brainer solution to this nonsensical problem, and I urge the Republican Majority to bring the bill up for a vote." ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND: According to DOJ's Office for Access to Justice (ATJ), roughly 60 percent of the people in U.S. jails are pretrial defendants, up from 50 percent in 1996 and 40 percent in 1986. ###
08.16.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to the Federal Aviation Administration’s decision regarding Santa Monica Airport’s Part 16 Grant Assurances. Yesterday, the FAA ruled against the City of Santa Monica concluding that the City must meet its federal grant obligations until 2023. “I am disappointed to learn that the FAA has ruled against the City of Santa Monica regarding its Santa Monica Airport federal grant obligations. It is clear that these obligations expired in 2014 and that the City should have control of its land. The FAA decision ignored basic facts and misapplied the law. I remain committed to working to ensure that the City is able to fully protect the health and safety of those residents living near the airport.” ###
08.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has issued the following statement regarding the news that a Saudi-led coalition airstrike killed 10 children while they were studying in a local school in Haydan, Yemen. In letters to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Joseph Dunford, Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Ash Carter, Mr. Lieu has expressed deep concern over the tragic civilian deaths caused by the Saudi-led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. Mr. Lieu has also introduced a joint resolution in the House (H.J. RES 90) to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia. "I have tried numerous times to work with the Administration to stop the United States from assisting Saudi Arabia in their indiscriminate killing of civilians in Yemen. But when Saudi Arabia continues to kill civilians, and in this case children, enough is enough. Having served on active duty, one of my responsibilities was to teach the Law of War. I am also a graduate of Air War College. The indiscriminate civilian killings by Saudi Arabia look like war crimes to me. In this case, children as young as 8 were killed by Saudi Arabian air strikes. By assisting Saudi Arabia, the United States is aiding and abetting what appears to be war crimes in Yemen. The Administration must stop enabling this madness now." ###
08.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) announced that the University of California, Los Angeles received a grant from the National Science Foundation. According to the National Science Foundation, the $2 million grant will create a new class of acoustic devices based on acoustic and electromagnetic waves to increase energy efficiency, and reduce noise and component size. This groundbreaking research is the product of an initiative by the National Science Foundation Engineering Directorate under the Emerging Frontiers in Research and Innovation (EFRI) Program on New Light and Acoustic Wave Propagation: Breaking Reversal Symmetry (NewLAW). Grant funds will be used to develop new circuits and technology at Radio Frequencies to process signals in a smaller, more compact wireless systems than currently possible with existing technologies. The grant will also be used to educate K-12 students on the principles of systems level hybrid engineering concepts and involve undergraduate students in research efforts. ###
08.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D I Los Angeles) issued the following statement in response to the proposed sale of tanks to Saudi Arabia. “I plan to closely review the latest approved arms sale to Saudi Arabia to ensure it meets the core objective of contributing to U.S. national security. I believe the Saudi military’s operational conduct in Yemen and the killing of civilians with U.S.-made weapons have harmed our national security interests, and I will continue to oppose any arms sale that contributes to its operations in that arena. This approved sale deserves to be scrutinized by Congress rather than rubber-stamped during the summer recess.” ###
08.11.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency’s (DEA) decision not to remove marijuana as a “Schedule 1” narcotic, thereby preventing doctors from prescribing marijuana to patients for medical use. The decision puts the federal government at odds with 25 U.S. state laws and the District of Columbia. “The DEA's refusal to reclassify marijuana to permit medical use is a cruel decision that ignores the suffering of patients who find well-documented relief in medical cannabis products. It also shows a profound disregard for where the medical community and the American public stand on the issue. Medical decisions should be made between a patient and his or her doctor--not the government. “The DEA's policy perpetuates the nonsensical divergence between state and federal medical marijuana policies. The DEA should be spending its limited resources on targeting high priority narcotics rather than erecting roadblocks to medical marijuana.” ###
08.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding his work on a legislative proposal to reform the nuclear weapons launch process. “The erratic and impulsive behavior of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has highlighted the structural dangers of America’s nuclear weapons launch protocols. Having taught the Law of War when I served on active duty, and as a graduate of Air War College, it is clear to me that the traditional checks and balances on the Executive branch do not apply when it comes to nuclear weapons. This process needs to be fixed. “The President does not need approval from Congress or the courts to launch nuclear weapons. All the President needs is the concurrence of the Secretary of Defense, who is appointed by the President. “When Congress comes back into session, I plan to introduce legislation that requires the concurrence of leaders in Congress—who are not beholden to the President—before a nuclear strike can be launched. We can no longer have the fate of civilization depend on just two people in the Executive Branch.” ###
07.22.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Yesterday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) finished first among Freshman Democrats in the 2016 Member Online All-Star Competition. As a result, Mr. Lieu was awarded the title of 2016 Freshman MVP. The annual Member social media contest is hosted by House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer. Freshman MVP Lieu gained 4,185 new social media followers (on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube) in part by advocating for an end to the influence Super PACs have on elections, testifying against LGBT discrimination, calling for common sense gun legislation, and well-received questioning of FBI Director James Comey. ###
07.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Automotive Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Auto-ISAC) publication of cybersecurity best practices for automotive manufacturers and suppliers. “As an original co-sponsor of the Security and Privacy in Your (SPY) Car Study Act, I am pleased that the Auto-ISAC has adopted the collaborative approach recommended in the bill and identified a strong set of practices and principles to ensure the design and operation of safer, more secure vehicle control and entertainment systems. I am especially appreciative of the emphasis on collaboration with third parties and focus on cultivating a culture of cybersecurity in automotive design and manufacture.” “Sharing information on cyberthreats, improving risk management practices, incorporating security based on industry-leading standards and investing in threat prevention will help make sure that our cars are better protected from hackers. If manufacturers and designers can truly adhere to these best practices, it will go a long way to protecting American families from automotive cyberthreats.” Additional Information In response to car cybersecurity flaws found in Jeep and General Motors vehicles, Congressman Lieu joined Congressman Joe Wilson in introducing the Security and Privacy n Your (SPY) Car Study Act, which proposed a public-private collaborative one year study to recommend cybersecurity regulations on automotive cybersecurity. Congressman Lieu is one of four computer science majors serving the United States Congress and serves on the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Information Technology, which held hearings regarding connected car cybersecurity on November 18, 2015. Congressman Lieu is a co-chair of the Smart Transportation Caucus and a member of the Cybersecurity Caucus. ###
07.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the passing of Congressman Mark Takai. "My wife Betty and I are deeply saddened by the passing away of our friend Mark Takai. It was an honor and joy to serve with Mark in Congress and to experience our freshman term together. Mark was a veteran, a patriot, and a tremendous public servant. Most of all, he was a loving husband to his wife Sami and a devoted father to their children. We will miss you Mark.” ###
07.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: ICYMI: REP. LIEU AND PATRICIA ARQUETTE PEN OP-ED ON WHY AMERICA NEEDS THE EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT Online at CNN.com, Mr. Lieu and Academy Award winning actress Patricia Arquette urge Congress to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) and call for equal rights for women. “Women today comprise more than half the world's population, making up about half the labor work force in the United States, yet they are still not guaranteed equal pay for equal work.” “The ERA would rightly enshrine the equality of men and women in our Constitution. Americans overwhelmingly support ratification of the ERA because it's not just a women's issue -- it's an equality issue.” “For too long, we have stalled on these fierce and urgent issues. At a time when the election of America's first woman president is a very real possibility, it is ironic that she will not have full equality under the law.” “Women have waited over 200 years for equal rights in the United States. When women succeed, America succeeds, and it is time we tell the rest of the world that equal finally means equal.” *** The Full Text of the CNN piece can be found HERE. ***
07.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) announced the launch of the Congressional App Challenge, a competition designed to engage student creativity and promote their participation in computer science and coding. The competition will take place from July 18 to November 2 and is open to all constituents. Established by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this nationwide effort allows students to compete against their peers by creating and an application or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices. The Challenge is designed to promote innovation and engagement in coding and computer science. To mark the beginning of the Congressional App Challenge, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: “As one of just 4 computer science majors in congress, I believe it is essential to encourage and nurture a generation of technology savvy students who will continue to innovate our economy and advance our technological edge. The App Challenge provides young students throughout my district an opportunity to pursue their creative and technical talents. I encourage all eligible students to participate” Additional App Challenge Information The Congressional App Challenge is open to all students in the 33rd Congressional District of California. Students entering the competition must submit their app to Challenge.gov during the competition submission period between 12PM Eastern Standard Time on July 18, 2016 and 12PM Eastern Daylight Time on November 2, 2016. Submissions will be judged on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winner from the 33rdCongressional District, chosen by a panel of expert judges, will be featured on StudentAppChallenge.us, and the winning app will also be on display in the U.S. Capitol, honoring the winners from across the country. ###
07.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Republican Party’s 2016 Platform. Among many anti-LGBT ideas, the platform includes support for so-called LGBT “conversion therapy,” which falsely purports to change an individual’s sexual orientation or gender identity. Last year, Congressman Lieu introduced the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act, which classifies for-profit conversion therapy as fraud under the Federal Trade Commission Act. “Time and again, Republicans have gone out of their way to promote backwards ideas targeting the LGBT community. I am sickened that the Republican Party’s 2016 Platform supports conversion therapy for minors. Conversion therapy is not only ineffective, but causes severe harm to those subjected to it, often leading to suicidal thoughts, family isolation, and depression. Ignoring the guidance of nearly all the mainstream medical and mental health organizations who have denounced conversion therapy is irresponsible and dangerous.” “Our leaders have a duty to protect all Americans. Last year I introduced the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act, which would root out for-profit conversion therapy across the nation. It’s clear that in the face of efforts to perpetuate this dangerous pseudoscience, we need to take an even stronger stand against it. To truly strengthen the American family, we must treat every person with respect and kindness, regardless of our differences. Ending conversion therapy will help us reach this goal.” ###
07.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding new guidance by the Department of Health and Human Services on how to respond to the threat of ransomware attacks. After several high profile ransomware attacks against American hospitals in March 2016, Congressman Lieu expressed concerns that hospitals and health providers lacked clear rules and regulations as how to respond to ransomware attacks. In May, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Civil Rights (OCR) announced it would issue guidance to health providers on how to respond to ransomware attacks under HIPAA and HITECH. On June, 27, 2016, Representatives Lieu and Hurd wrote a letter to OCR urging them to utilize the guidance to make clear that ransomware attacks constitute a breach under HIPAA and HITECH regulations and lay out clear parameters on how to respond to protect the public. “I am pleased the Department of Health and Human Services has responded to the concerns outlined in our letter and issued guidance making clear that most ransomware and malware attacks should be considered a breach under the HITECH law. This means ransomware and malware intrusions would be subject to risk assessments and disclosure requirements. I am also pleased the Office of Civil Rights updated and reinforced best practices on how to respond to and mitigate the effects of ransomware attacks to ensure continued access to personal health information and availability of health care services." "The guidance is a substantial improvement in making sure that hospitals and health providers take steps to address the threat of ransomware and to notify the public. However, the guidance may have some room for improvement when it comes to responding to the public safety threat posed by ransomware. The authority granted to HHS by HIPAA and HITECH is limited to protecting privacy concerns. Statutory changes may be necessary in order to enable HHS and the industry to better collaborate and respond. I will continue to meet with experts, officials and advocates in the field to determine the best approach to protect the public from these cyber-attacks.” ###
07.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – On July 7, 2016 Congressman Ted Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) joined Congressman Walter Jones (R I North Carolina) and Senator Jeff Merkley (D I Oregon) as elected official lead plaintiffs in filing a complaint before the Federal Election Commission (FEC) seeking to end super PAC contributions. The filing aims to reverse the 2010 federal appeals court ruling in SpeechNow.org v. FEC, which gave birth to the unlimited super PACs we have today. It was this lower court ruling—and not the Supreme Court—that made unlimited super PAC contributions possible. The FEC complaint alleges that super PACS have now become vehicles for wealthy donors to evade campaign contribution limits designed to prevent corruption and the appearance of corruption. “I am honored to join my colleagues and Free Speech for People as one of the lead plaintiffs to compel the Federal Election Commission to enforce federal contribution limits on super PACs. It is time to get big money out of politics. Since the Speechnow.org v. Federal Election Commission decision, the amount of money spent on our elections has exploded, adding fuel to the public perception of election corruption. Americans across the political spectrum want to see their elected officials responsive to them instead of the ultra-wealthy. A recent investigation showing that over 40% of all super PAC contributions in the US come from just 50 people and their relatives is highly disturbing. The idea that the top 1%--of the top 1%--can essentially buy an election is a threat to our democracy. We are not an oligarchy. Progress happens when people stand up and demand a change. The vast majority of the American people want to see limits to campaign contributions. It is time we address these inequities and advocate for change to our campaign finance system.” *** The full video of the Bill Press Show interview can be found HERE. The full video of the Capitol Hill press conference can be found HERE. ***
07.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D I Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the short term Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization bill. “I am disappointed that the FAA short term reauthorization did not include any provisions to address the outrageous noise distresses faced every day by my constituents. The Republican majority silenced other voices and did not even allow Members of Congress to offer input or amendments to the short term reauthorization bill and mitigate this ongoing problem. The FAA and the Republican majority should be engaging and listening to communities, not shutting out their representatives who were elected to voice their concerns. As a member of the Quiet Skies Caucus, I will continue to push for transparency and provisions to heed the daily noise violations faced by families in the 33rd District.” ###
07.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON – Today – on the one-month anniversary of the tragic shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement at the conclusion of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s hearing on H.R. 2802, the so-called “First Amendment Defense Act.” If enacted, this legislation would prevent the federal government from taking action to prevent individuals or other entities from discriminating against same-sex couples and those who engage in extramarital affairs. “It was disappointing that Republicans on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee held a hearing on legislation that allows discrimination against LGBT individuals and single parents. And it was deeply insensitive to hold this hearing on the one-month anniversary of the tragic mass shooting in Orlando that targeted LGBT individuals. H.R. 2802 is backwards in so many ways. If it were to pass, schools could refuse to accept the child of LGBT parents; single parents could be fired from their jobs or lose their homes; and health insurance companies could deny coverage to same-sex couples. These are only a few of the potential consequences. But this bill is not just backwards, it is also dangerous. It would take one particular religious belief of one religion and elevate it to secular law, which would irresponsibly erode the First Amendment. America is great because we are a democracy, not a theocracy. As has been noted, Members of Congress place their hand on a bible and swear an oath to protect the Constitution – not the other way around.” *** The full video of the hearing can be found HERE. The full transcript of the hearing can be found HERE. ***
07.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the recent announcement by the Department of Justice sentencing Mir Islam. Islam was sentenced to 24 months in prison on three federal charges for conspiracy to commit various crimes including “swatting” and “doxing” numerous victims as well as making false bomb threats and engaging in online cyber-stalking. On April 19, 2013, Congressman Lieu was a victim of “swatting” when someone posing as him reported to police that he had shot his wife at their home in Torrance. In his victim impact statement, Congressman Lieu detailed that harrowing day and the negative effects Mr. Islam’s actions had on him and his family. As a State Senator, Congressman Lieu authored California State Senate Bill 333, which increased the fines an individual would have to pay for making false 9-1-1 calls, which then led him to be a target of such action. "I want to thank the Court today for rendering the appropriate sentence for the perpetrator who caused so many people much distress. I believe “swatting” is a serious crime that can result in injuries or deaths. It causes significant disruptions to first responders and is a wasteful allocation of critical resources that should otherwise be used for real emergencies. I commend the FBI and their incredible work and dedication in tracking down Mr. Islam. I also want to thank the first responders, especially from the City of Torrance, for their professionalism during that time. Elected officials should never be criminally targeted or become victims of crime because of legislation we choose to author. It is my hope that this sentencing will deter others from committing similar criminal acts.” ###
07.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: CONGRESSMAN LIEU & ZACHARY NORRIS OP-ED ON AMERICA’S MONEY BAIL SYSTEM Online on The Hill, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Norris call for the elimination of money bail for public safety both inside and outside of jails. “Bail forces families to make the difficult decision between paying their loved one’s bail bond fees and covering basic needs — like food, shelter and child support. Families that can’t afford to pay the 10 percent fee in cash often go on payment plans, pushing them into debt that could follow them for the rest of their lives.” “The No Money Bail Act of 2016, which has been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, would change that. It would eliminate money bail in the federal system and give states three years to eliminate money bail or lose eligibility for federal grants.” “Money bail is unfair and unsafe, and goes against our country’s values of ‘innocent until proven guilty.’” *** The Full Text of the The Hill piece can be found HERE. ***
07.11.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) will host a special viewing of the acclaimed film Merchants of Doubt, and, along with Senator Whitehouse, has introduced a “Web of Denial” Concurrent Resolution, which condemns groups who have misled the public on tobacco, lead, and climate. “The actions taken by ExxonMobil and other big oil companies may have imperiled all of humanity through their massive campaign of deception to confuse the public and lawmakers as to the truth of climate science. Any actors who knowingly confuse the public as to the harm of their products, whether it be lead, tobacco, or oil should be condemned and investigated. I am proud to host a screening this evening of Merchants of Doubt and to introduce the “Web of Denial” resolution today with Senator Whitehouse and shed more light on the horrendous actions perpetrated by ExxonMobil and others. Merchants of Doubt is an incredible documentary, and, through the power of film, educates the public about the massive campaign of deception and denial pursued by ExxonMobil and others as to the truth of climate change and the parallels between the actions of big tobacco.” -- Rep. Ted W. Lieu (CA-33) “We need to call out the perpetrators of the intricate web of denial that’s blocked action on major threats like tobacco and climate. In drawing on the work of Dr. Oreskes and Dr. Conway, this film brings to life some of the best research available on this subject. It’s an important resource as we continue the fight to loosen the fossil fuel industry’s filthy grip on Congress.” -- Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) ###
07.08.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the shooting of police officers and civilians in Dallas yesterday evening. “The killing and wounding of law enforcement officers in Dallas, and the wounding of civilians, were depraved, senseless, criminal acts. While we do not yet know much about all the possible shooters, this attack is a poignant reminder that our law enforcement officials put their lives on the line every time they put on a uniform. My grandfather was a police officer and I greatly respect the service and protection that law enforcement provides on a daily basis. My heart goes out to all those affected by this tragedy. As we continue to learn more, I urge my fellow Americans not to let these events divide our communities. Let us respond to hate with love, to violence with peace, and help heal our nation.” ###
07.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: CONGRESSMAN LIEU QUESTIONS FBI DIRECTOR COMEY DURING HOUSE OVERSIGHT HEARING ON FORMER SECRETARY CLINTON’S EMAILS Online, Congressman Lieu questions the validity of the House Republicans’ decision to hold an “emergency” hearing regarding the FBI investigation of Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email server. “I have heard some sound and fury today from members of the committee, and the reason they largely signify nothing is because of two fundamental truths that are self-evident. The first of which is none of the members of this committee can be objective on this issue.”“The second fundamental truth today about this hearing is that none of the members of this committee have any idea what we are talking about because we have not reviewed the evidence personally in this case.”“When I served on active duty in the US Air Force in the 1990s, one of my duties was a prosecutor. One of the first things that I learned as a prosecutor is, it is unprofessional and wrong to make allegations based on evidence that one has not reviewed.”“At the end of the day when the American people look at this hearing, they need to ask themselves this question: Do they trust the biased partisan politicians on this committee who are making statements based on evidence that we have not reviewed, or do they trust the distinguished FBI Director? I would trust the FBI Director.” BACKGROUND: FBI Director James Comey was called to testify at a hearing this morning, which was noticed to members of the Committee as “Oversight of the State Department” with less than 24-hours advance notice. This is only the second time during the 114th Congress that the Committee has chosen not to follow the House Rule XI requirement that at least seven days’ notice be given for hearings. *** THE FULL TRANSCRIPT OF REP. LIEU’S QUESTIONING HERE.THE FULL VIDEO OF REP. LIEU’S QUESTIONING HERE.*** ###
07.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the tragic deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile in separate incidents this week: “These shootings once again raise questions of systematic racial disparities in our country and the need to evaluate our law enforcement’s de-escalation training, accountability mechanisms, and community relations. I am pleased the US Department of Justice last month mandated implicit bias training for all of its law enforcement and prosecutors. During this difficult time, we must come together and have a meaningful conversation about improving the relationships between our law enforcement and our communities. No American should be or feel less safe because of race or ethnicity.” ###
07.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MEDIA ADVISORY: CONGRESSMAN LIEU TO HOST CAPITOL HILL SCREENING OF MERCHANTS OF DOUBT WASHINGTON – On Monday July 11, 2016, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D I Los Angeles County) will host a special viewing of the acclaimed film Merchants of Doubt by Participant Media with an in-depth conversation on climate change. WHAT A special viewing of the film “Merchants of Doubt” followed by a panel discussion on climate change WHO Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-33) Dr. Naomi Oreskes – Co-author of Merchants of Doubt Bob Inglis – Executive Director of Republicen.org Greg Dotson – Vice President of Energy Policy at the Center for American Progress Remarks by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI) WHEN Monday, July 11, 2016 6PM Reception 7PM Screening WHERE Orientation North Theater Capitol Visitors Center East Capitol St. NE & First St. NERSVP HERE ###
07.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on Eid al-Fitr. “Sending warm wishes on Eid to all Muslims in America and around the world. Marking the end of a long month of praying, fasting, and reflection, it is now time for friends and families to join together to bring Ramadan to a close. As we celebrate, we also remember the lives of the innocent people who have been taken in recent terrorist attacks across the Middle East. Our resolve to stand for peace and happiness has never been stronger. To all those families celebrating, I wish you all a very Happy Eid. Eid Mubarak!” ###
07.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MEDIA ADVISORY: Congressman Ted Lieu (D-CA), Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC), and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR), will host a press conference after a legal team, led by Free Speech For People, files a complaint on their behalf before the F.E.C. challenging super-PAC spending in US elections. WHAT: A legal team, led by Free Speech For People, and a group of bi-partisan plaintiffs, led by Senator Jeff Merkley and Representatives Ted Lieu and Walter Jones, will host a press conference at 12 PM on July 7, 2016, in S-120 of the U.S. Capitol building, to talk with members of the media and answer questions regarding a complaint filed before the Federal Election Commission seeking to abolish super PAC spending in US elections. WHO: Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) Congressman Ted Lieu (D-CA) Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) Ron Fein, Legal Director, Free Speech For People John Bonifaz, President, Free Speech For People Prof. Albert Alschuler, Univ. of Chicago Law School (emeritus) Anne Weismann, Executive Director, Campaign for Accountability Ambassador (ret.) Norman Eisen, former chief ethics counsel for President Barack Obama WHEN: Thursday, July 7, 2016 12 PM WHERE: Room S-120 in the Capitol Building LEGAL TEAM: Ron Fein, Legal Director, Free Speech For People John Bonifaz, President, Free Speech For People Scott Greytak, Counsel, Free Speech For People Anne Weismann, Executive Director, Campaign for Accountability Prof. Laurence Tribe, Harvard Law School Prof. Albert Alschuler, Univ. of Chicago Law School (emeritus) Prof. Richard Painter, Univ. of Minnesota Law School, former chief ethics counsel for President George W. Bush Ambassador (ret.) Norman Eisen, former chief ethics counsel for President Barack Obama PRESS CONTACTS: Edward Erikson, Edward.Erikson@gmail.com, 202-420-9947 Please email Edward.Erikson@Gmail.com to RSVP ###
07.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding House Republicans’ decision to hold an “emergency” hearing of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee regarding the FBI investigation of Secretary Hillary Clinton’s use of a personal email server. FBI Director James Comey has been called to testify at the hearing, which was noticed to members of the Committee as “Oversight of the State Department” with less than 24-hours advance notice. This is only the second time during the 114th Congress that the Committee has chosen not to follow the House Rule XI requirement that at least seven days’ notice be given for hearings.“Remember when Vice Presidential candidate Admiral Stockdale stated on national television, “Who am I? Why am I here?” That’s exactly how tomorrow’s hastily-convened hearing will feel. We on the Oversight Committee are politicians, not federal prosecutors or FBI agents. Why are we wasting taxpayer resources to second guess the professional judgment of a man of high integrity, FBI Director Comey, based on evidence none of us have even reviewed? This is ridiculous.” ###
07.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding ACLU of California’s report on deportation of Veterans. The statement was delivered by a representative at today’s ACLU press conference announcing their report. Congressman Lieu’s Full Statement ACLU of California Report Discharged, Then Discarded July 6, 2016 I want to thank ACLU of California for its ground-breaking report to shine a light on an unconscionable practice in the United States that requires immediate action. As an immigrant and a Veteran who previously served on active duty, I believe there is perhaps no greater injustice in our immigration system than the deportation of Veterans. The report documents the cases of 84 Veterans who have been unjustly forced out of the country or are facing deportation following their service and highlights the significant consequences. These deported Veterans are often never notified they were eligible to apply for citizenship and, in some cases, are permanently barred from returning. To make matters worse, they often leave behind families. It is simply incomprehensible that we treat some Veterans more like criminals than heroes. The deportation of Veterans also means we are failing to deliver on our promise to provide for our troops when they leave service. Veterans who need mandatory medical exams in order to process their VA benefits are unable to obtain the necessary exams because they cannot access VA medical care in the United States. My office is currently assisting two Veterans facing this undue burden in arranging for medical care. I am pleased to report that last month one of these Veterans, Hector Barajas, was granted an exam after a three year battle with the VA and Department of State. Mr. Barajas has seen this problem become so widespread that he now runs the Deported Veterans Support House in Tijuana to assist Veterans facing the same plight. I am a proud original co-sponsor of HR 5012, the Restoring Respect for Immigrant Service in Uniform Act, a bill to help address this issue. But there is more that can and must be done. It is a testament to the relentless work of the ACLU on behalf of our nation’s Veterans that the report makes a number of concrete recommendations for solutions to the White House, federal agencies and Congress. I look forward to studying the recommendations to Congress and working with the ACLU to develop a path forward. I strongly believe any immigrant, documented or otherwise, who puts their life on the line to serve the United States in uniform should be entitled to their VA benefits and a peaceful life in our great nation. ###
07.05.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lieu (D I Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the recent wave of ISIS-coordinated bombings throughout the Middle East. On June 28, three suicide bombers killed 45 people and wounded hundreds in Istanbul’s Ataturk Airport. On July 2, six attackers took hostages in a bakery and slaughtered 20 people, including American student Faraaz Hossain. On July 3, a suicide truck bombing in a busy Baghdad shopping district killed at least 215 people and wounded around 175, while in Saudi Arabia over a dozen were killed in several bombings. “I condemn the recent wave of terrorist attacks that has hit the Middle East in the strongest possible terms. It is unfathomable that hundreds of innocent men, women and children have been murdered by terrorists in the span of a week. There is perhaps no greater reminder that ISIS does not represent Islam than the fact that these attacks happened in Muslim countries during the holy month of Ramadan. As ISIS continues to lose territory, it is desperately lashing out to distract and instill fear into any enemy it can reach. We must continue to work vigilantly to protect our homeland from the threat of terrorism and stay focused on the ultimate goal of eradicating this radical cancer.” ###
07.05.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the murder of 13-year-old American Israeli Hallel Ariel on June 29, 2016. “There are few things more tragic than the death of a child, but among them is the brutal murder of a child in the supposed safety of her own bedroom. As the father of two young boys, I am horrified by the death of 13-year-old American Israeli Hallel Ariel, whose friends and family described as an avid reader who loved to dance. In the aftermath of this evil, savage act, we are left wondering how the family and community of the 17-year-old Palestinian terrorist could praise him as a martyr rather than grieve the path he chose, or how the Palestinian Authority could pay his family a monthly stipend as a reward. These conspiratorial actions by the terrorist's Palestinian family and the Palestinian Authority are unacceptable and must be condemned as actions that embolden and perpetuate terrorism. No teenager is born to hate, let alone motivated to sneak into a young girl’s bedroom and stab her to death. No one is born believing resistance means shooting up a crowded restaurant or a car filled with a young family—two events that have taken place in recent weeks. For all those who care about peace, combating an environment that breeds such incitement should be a top priority. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of Hallel, and all the victims of these recent terror attacks. May their memories be a blessing.” ###
07.05.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing on anti-LGBT legislation, H.R. 2802, the First Amendment Defense Act. “I am disappointed to learn that the Republican majority has decided to move forward with a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing on H.R. 2802. This bill would codify discrimination against LGBT individuals and prevent them from receiving the federal benefits to which they are entitled. What the bill’s supporters wish to sell as protecting religious freedom is in reality a license to discriminate. “I am an ardent defender of the Constitution, and believe that our founding principle of religious freedom makes us a stronger nation. But as the courts have ruled over the years, our first amendment rights cannot be used to trample on the rights of our fellow citizens. It is fundamentally misguided to suggest that religious liberty is under attack because LGBT Americans want to exercise their right to love whom they choose. “H.R. 2802 does not protect the First Amendment – the bill distorts it. I urge the cancellation of this hearing.” ###
07.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to the Architect of the Capitol and the Superintendent of House Office Buildings regarding the recent announcement of elevated lead contamination in the water in the Cannon House Office Building. “The EPA safe standard for lead in water is 15 ppb, and some of the water in Cannon measured lead levels over three times the legal limit. My constituents, staff, and I have been potentially exposed to lead poisoning, as well as the constituents, staff, and members of Congress in the dozens of other offices in the Cannon building. The Dear Colleague that was released on June 28 was vague and provided very little details for our understandably anxious constituents, staff, and members of Congress who have all been frequent consumers of water from the Cannon building.” ###
06.30.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Department of Defense’s decision to reverse its policy that barred transgender individuals from serving openly in the U.S. military. “I applaud Secretary Carter’s decision to lift the ban on transgender military service. Every day our military is tasked with keeping Americans safe and defending our nation’s ideals, and it relies on the bravery and heroism of those individuals who choose to serve. Allowing transgender individuals to serve openly and access the medical care they need will only strengthen our military readiness. As a former active duty officer in the U.S. Air Force currently serving as a Colonel in the Reserves, I understand that a person’s ability to serve is not determined by gender identity. Thousands of transgender individuals already serve our country admirably in the armed forces, and there is no compelling medical or military rationale to restrict their service. Rather than promoting baseless exclusionary policies, we should welcome those who are qualified and willing. I am confident that today’s announcement will enhance our military and make our nation more secure, and I look forward to seeing its implementation.” ###
06.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Department of Justice’s announcement of new department-wide implicit bias training for personnel. Congressman Lieu has previously raised concerns about patterns of discrimination by the Department of Justice against members of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. “I commend the Department of Justice (DOJ) for mandating department-wide implicit bias training for all of its law enforcement agents and prosecutors. Over the years, multiple Americans who happened to be of Asian descent—including Sherry Chen and Professor Xiaoxing Xi—have been arrested and indicted by DOJ for alleged espionage only to have all the charges dropped. The common thread in every one of these cases was a defendant with a Chinese surname—and an innocent life that was unnecessarily turned upside down. I have repeatedly expressed my concerns directly to the Attorney General, and I hope this much-needed bias training will prevent future instances of innocent Americans being wrongfully targeted and arrested on the basis of race, ethnicity or national origin. I look forward to reviewing the training materials and DOJ’s progress in due time. Based on this implicit admission by DOJ that there has been implicit bias among law enforcement agents and prosecutors, I once again call on the DOJ Inspector General to finally conduct independent investigations into how the DOJ got it so wrong in these cases involving Americans who happened to be of Asian descent.” ###
06.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE TOMORROW: MEDIA ADVISORY: REP. LIEU TO HOLD CONVERSATION WITH COMMUNITY LEADERS CALLING FOR ACTION ON GUN SAFETY LEGISLATION Los Angeles, CA – On Thursday, June 30, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D I Los Angeles County) will join members of the Leo Baeck Temple to discuss the need for common sense gun safety legislation. As a follow-up to last week’s House Democratic sit-in on gun control and today’s National Day of Action to Prevent Gun Violence, Congressman Lieu will meet with community leaders and members to discuss next steps post sit-in and ways the public can help move the conversation on gun safety forward. Congressman Lieu will be joined by Judge Ralph Fertig, a lifelong activist and one of the original Freedom Riders of the Civil Rights movement who also worked alongside civil ights icon, Congressman John Lewis, to organize members. WHAT: Conversation with Congressman Ted Lieu on Gun Safety Legislation and the House Democratic Sit-In WHO: Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-33) Judge Ralph Fertig Members of the Leo Baeck Temple and community WHERE: Leo Baeck Synagogue 1300 North Sepulveda Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90049 WHEN: Thursday, June 30 at 10AM PT THIS EVENT IS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC AND PRESS ###
06.28.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Will Hurd (R | San Antonio) sent a letter to Deven McGraw, Deputy Director of the Office of Civil Rights of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) encouraging the office to focus on developing guidance for health care providers to respond to ransomware attacks under the disclosure and reporting requirements of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). The letter urges the Office of Civil Rights to treat ransomware attacks as breaches under HITECH regulations and encourages regulators to require patient disclosures where denial of access to health records and/or health care services were negatively affected. As noted by the Ponemon Institute’s Sixth Annual Benchmark Study on Privacy and Security of Healthcare Data, four in ten healthcare organizations are worried about ransomware attacks. This letter also strongly encourages rapid and mandatory notification of government agencies and cyber-response resources in order to stop widespread attacks and coordinate responses. “I welcome the news of HHS providing guidance to health providers on a matter that threatens so many hospital IT systems. However, we need to make clear that ransomware is not the same as conventional breaches. The threat to patients from ransomware is typically due to the denial of access to their medical records and medical services. Not only could this be a threat to privacy, but it could result in medical complications and deaths if hospitals can’t access patient information. For example, in March 2016, MedStar was turning away patients due to a ransomware attack. If a ransomware attack denies a patient access to their medical record or medical services, the patient needs to know as quickly as possible. We should encourage information about the attack to be shared with both the government and Information Sharing and Analysis organizations in order to prevent the spread of the attack to other providers.” The full text of Mr. Lieu & Mr. Hurd’s ransomware letter ###
06.22.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of a sit-in by Democrats on the House Floor today to demand a vote on legislation to address gun violence in America. “Having earned two marksmanship ribbons in the U.S. military, I am well aware of the lethality of guns. It is ridiculous the United States gives terrorists easy access to weapons that can kill a lot of people very quickly. We absolutely need to require background checks before all gun purchases and restrict people on the no fly list from buying guns. “Due to recklessness by House Republicans and the NRA’s maniacal stonewalling of any gun safety legislation, Democrats must stage a sit-in on the House floor simply to request a vote on gun safety legislation. My Democratic colleagues and I have had enough of Congressional inaction on gun violence in America. “I am honored to join civil rights icon John Lewis in the sit-in and applaud his leadership on this fierce, urgent issue. Since the Orlando massacre, the worst mass shooting in our history, 500 more Americans have been the victims of gun violence. Enough is enough.” FULL VIDEO OF REP. LIEU'S FLOOR REMARKS HERE
06.22.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE BILL SPONSORED BY REP. TED W. LIEU AUTHORIZING VITAL VETERAN CONSTRUCTION PASSES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AS PART OF LEGISLATIVE PACKAGETHE HOUSE VOTE AUTHORIZES WEST LOS ANGELES VA MEDICAL CENTER SEISMIC RETROFITS WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles), sponsor of H.R. 4334, the Fiscal Year 2016 Department of Veterans Affairs Seismic Safety and Construction Authorization Act, issued the following statement in response to the passage of H.R. 4590, the Fiscal Year 2016 Department Of Veterans Affairs Seismic Safety, Construction, And Leases Authorization Act, by the House of Representatives: “I am pleased that the House of Representatives has passed the Department of Veterans Affairs Seismic Safety, Construction, and Leases Authorization Act, which incorporated my bill intended to serve Veterans in my district and throughout the country. One of my top priorities in Congress is to provide my fellow Veterans with the care and support they have earned and deserve. Today’s bill authorizes dozens of major VA construction and medical facility projects, including more than $30 million to the West LA VA to rehabilitate three buildings that will be used to house homeless Veterans. With this project, we are taking yet another step to return the West LA VA to its intended purpose of serving our nation’s Veterans. Thank you to Senators Feinstein and Boxer for their continued leadership on this issue.” ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND:Last year, joint legislation by Congressman Lieu and Senator Dianne Feinstein secured $35 million for seismic retrofits and renovations for Building 205 at the West LA VA campus. In January 2016, Congressman Lieu and Senator Feinstein introduced new legislation in the House and Senate, respectively, to authorize funds for additional VA projects in California, including $35 million for Building 208 at the West LA VA campus.###
06.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWashington - Today, on World Refugee Day 2016, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) introduced House Resolution 792, reaffirming the United States commitment to the protection of refugees and displaced persons. Reps. Eliot Engel, David Cicilline, Earl Blumenauer, Alcee Hastings, Juan Vargas, Joe Crowley, Ruben Gallego, Adam Schiff, Zoe Lofgren and Betty McCollum joined Mr. Lieu to co-sponsor this resolution. “Today, on World Refugee Day, we must recognize the incredible fortitude of the world’s millions of refugees and displaced persons in the face of unthinkable hardships. Unfortunately, this year’s commemoration comes amidst the highest levels of worldwide displacement of people ever recorded. Fueled by ongoing conflict, violence and persecution, the number of people forcibly displaced had risen to a staggering 65 million by the end of 2015, compared to 51 million only two years earlier. This significant increase is a poignant reminder of how much work there still is to do. “Today, Congress should send a strong message that the U.S.—a country whose story has been written by those fleeing oppression and hardship – will not abandon the world’s most vulnerable populations. That’s why I am honored to introduce a House Resolution today along with my House colleagues Eliot Engel, David Cicilline, Earl Blumenauer, Alcee Hastings, Juan Vargas, Joe Crowley, Ruben Gallego, Adam Schiff, Zoe Lofgren and Betty McCollum to reaffirm our nation’s commitment to the protection of refugees and displaced persons.” ###
06.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in response to a new study released by Nielsen and its Asian Pacific American External Advisory Council, which provides an in-depth analysis of the expanding cultural and economic footprint of Asian-Americans consumers. “Asian-American and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs) are now the fastest growing immigrant population in the United States. What Nielsen's report on AAPI consumer trends demonstrates is that as the demographic continues to grow, so does its substantial purchasing power. The bottom line is this: cultural and economic trends are now shifting to reflect the preferences of AAPI consumers. “The Nielsen report shows that Asian-Americans currently have a buying power worth $825 billion, which is larger than the buying power of all but 17 countries. By 2020, Asian-American buying power is expected to rise to $1.1 trillion. As marketers and companies look to appeal to America’s diverse and growing immigrant population, it is important for them to understand how to connect with and appeal to this multifaceted group. Through data and analysis, the Nielsen report provides companies with resources to do just that. “Immigrants always have been, and always will be, the engine that drives our nation forward. At a time when some political leaders choose to spew anti-immigrant rhetoric, our society must be reminded of the great contributions, particularly to our nation’s economy, of the millions of immigrants in the United States. Now is the time to embrace our nation's multiculturalism and seize the opportunity to appeal to new and growing demographics.” ###
06.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the establishment of a Department of Energy Innovation Center at UCLA. The Center—just one of nine centers in the nation—will develop advanced sensors that monitor the use of energy in manufacturing. Manufacturers use about a third of the energy consumed in the country and this center will develop state-of-the-art technology to reduce and monitor energy consumption. Moreover, the technology will bring back much-needed jobs in the region. "Today's announcement of the establishment of an advanced manufacturing facility at UCLA is welcome news for Los Angeles, California, and our nation. I applaud President Obama, Chancellor Block, the faculty and staff at UCLA for this innovative partnership that will certainly be an important step forward in energizing our manufacturing base - a key component of American economic leadership in the 21st-century global economy. I look forward to any and every opportunity to support UCLA in this groundbreaking work." ###
06.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. LIEU CALLS FOR GUN VIOLENCE SOLUTIONS - “ENOUGH IS ENOUGH” Online, Rep. Lieu calls for an end to gun violence and urges his House colleagues to finally stand up to the NRA “I’ve had enough of gun violence in America. I’ve had enough of Congressional Republicans blocking common sense gun safety legislation.” “Since Newtown, there have been over 1100 mass shootings in America. 297 people are shot every day in our country – that means an American is shot every five minutes.” “I’ve had enough of moments of silence, thoughts and prayers in Congress in the wake of mass shootings.” “In fact, my thoughts and prayers are with those Republicans who cannot seem to find the courage to finally say, “ENOUGH IS ENOUGH” to the NRA.” ***The Full Video can be found HERE. ***
06.16.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. TED LIEU AND SENATOR SHELDON WHITEHOUSE OP-ED: “IT’S TIME TO DIVEST FROM EXXONMOBIL” Online at The Hill, Rep. Lieu and Senator Whitehouse urge organizations to divest from fossil fuels, starting with ExxonMobil. “ExxonMobil may have robbed humanity of a generation’s worth of time to reverse climate change. It is time for the pension funds to accept reality and divest from a company that knowingly drove us toward climate catastrophe while obstructing action with fabricated doubt and denial.” “By divesting from ExxonMobil, pension funds send a clear message: Companies that intentionally poison public dialogue, obstruct solutions and fuel climate catastrophewill not receive the public’s investments.” *** The Full Text of the The Hill piece can be found HERE. ***
06.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, in a ceremony conducted by Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) was promoted from Lieutenant Colonel to Colonel in the Air Force. Mr. Lieu served four years active duty in the Air Force and currently serves in the Air Force Reserves, for a total of twenty years of service. Mr. Lieu was joined by family, friends and honored guests, including House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald. Congressmembers Seth Mouton, Ruben Gallego and Steve Russell assisted in pinning on the rank of Colonel at today’s promotion ceremony. Mr. Lieu’s promotion to Colonel is a rare event. Of the 660,000 men and women serving in the United States Air Force on active duty, reserves, and guard, less than four thousand have attained the rank of Colonel. During his Air Force career, Mr. Lieu served on active duty in Operation PACIFIC HAVEN. He has also received numerous medals for his military service, including the Air Force Humanitarian Service Medal and multiple Meritorious Service Medals. “As the son of immigrant parents who were able to achieve the American dream, I joined the Air Force on active duty and decided to continue to serve in the Reserves to give back to America – an exceptional country of boundless opportunity that has given so much to my family. I am deeply humbled to be promoted to Colonel. Thank you to Secretary of the Air Force James, Leader Pelosi, Whip Hoyer, Veterans Affairs Secretary McDonald, and Representatives Moulton, Russell and Gallego for sharing this special moment with me today. “It is a profound honor to be a part of the United States Air Force, a stalwart and steadfast family made up of imminently dedicated and skilled professionals who do so much to safeguard America in the air, in space and in cyberspace. I look forward to continuing to serve our nation as an officer and as a Member of the House of Representatives. In both these solemn duties, I pledge to always honor the Air Force’s core values: integrity first, service before self, and excellence in all we do.” *** FOR MORE PHOTOS CLICK HERE ***
06.10.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to condemn a carbon tax: “Last year was the hottest year on record, followed by 2014 as the second hottest year on record. Extreme weather events, droughts, and diseases due to climate change are happening across the globe. Yet, today, instead of working to find solutions to help the American people and fight climate change, House Republicans wasted taxpayer dollars with a pointless vote to condemn a carbon fee. A majority of the American people and even ExxonMobil support a carbon fee. I call on my House Republican colleagues to stop the shenanigans and work across the aisle to help solve our climate crisis.” ###
06.09.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. TED LIEU ON THE 10TH ANNIVERSARY OF “AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH” In collaboration with Participant Media, Congressman Lieu joins in celebrating the 10th anniverary of “An Inconvenient Truth,” a landmark documentary highlighting the serious need to address global warming and climate change “I believe “An Inconvenient Truth” is the most important documentary in the history of humankind. It put front and center the issue of climate change and how we need to address it as a state, as a nation, as a world.” “In terms of climate change specifically, as a policy maker, it is my number one issue. The first bill I introduced in Congress was to basically take California’s landmark global warming laws and try to replicate it nationwide.” ***THE FULL VIDEO CAN BE FOUND HERE. ***
06.09.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Ted W. Lieu (D I Los Angeles) and Zoe Lofgren (D I San Jose) led a California delegation letter to Attorney General Kamala Harris in support of her investigation of ExxonMobil, and in response to House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith’s actions. “Evidence has come to light showing that ExxonMobil knew about climate change decades ago, yet embarked on a massive campaign of deception to confuse the American public and lawmakers about the truth of climate science. ExxonMobil may have violated securities laws with its actions, and Attorney General Harris has every right to investigate whether ExxonMobil lied about climate change risks. Chairman Lamar Smith is abusing his power and wrongfully accusing Harris of violating the First Amendment. We support her investigation.” - Representative Ted W. Lieu (CA-33) “Chairman Smith has an unfortunate record of intimidating and harassing scientists whose work does not conform to his notions and partisan goals,” said Lofgren. “That this has now spread to pressuring public officials who seek the truth behind climate science denial may not be a surprise, but is disappointing.” - Representative Zoe Logren (CA -19) ###
06.08.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Los Angeles – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) released the following statement in light of the news that a Citizens United advisory measure is going on the California ballot for the November 2016 election. Mr. Lieu was the original author of the California law that created this advisory measure. “I am elated over the news that a ballot measure on Citizens United will be going before California voters this November. Since the Supreme Court’s disastrous Citizens United decision, which allowed corporations to make unlimited independent expenditures on political activities, we have seen the growing influence of Super PACs – organizations that do not truly represent the will of the American people, but give an outsized voice to the wealthiest individuals. “Without limits on campaign contributions, politicians spend too much time catering to special interests, and not enough time connecting with everyday Americans. Our founders envisioned a government of the people, by the people, and for the people; but, that can only occur if every person is able to fairly express their views. I want to thank State Senator Ben Allen for his fierce leadership on this urgent issue. Furthermore, I believe that Congress must pass a constitutional amendment overturning Citizens United so that all Americans’ voices can be heard.” ### Congressman Ted W. Lieu serves on the House Committees on the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform. He is also the Democratic Freshman Class President and a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force Reserves.
06.08.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement for the record in opposition to H.R. 4755, the Ozone Standards Implementation Act: "Mr. Speaker: I rise today in opposition to H.R. 4775, the Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2016. Protecting our air from dirty pollution should not be a partisan issue. We all want to breathe clean air. We all want our children to be able to play outside without risking an asthma attack due to high ozone levels. Last year, the Environmental Protection Agency finalized new ozone rules designed to protect the health of all Americans, particularly those communities which are at higher risk for smog. H.R. 4775 would delay this rule and critically undermine the Clean Air Act, jeopardizing Americans’ health. In my home state of California, smog used to be so bad that people were not allowed to go outside. We have made a lot of progress since then, and the last smog alert in California occurred in 1997. H.R. 4775 represents a step backward in our nation’s fight for cleaner air, and I urge my colleagues to vote no." ###
06.03.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE PRESS CONFERENCE ADVISORY: REP. TED LIEU AND ASIAN AMERICANS ADVANCING JUSTICE–LOS ANGELES PRESS CONFERENCE ON HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND FILIPINO IMMIGRANT GUESTWORKERS On June 9, 2016, Congressman Ted Lieu along with Asian Americans Advancing Justice–Los Angeles (Advancing Justice–LA) will host a public press conference on the current state of human trafficking and Filipino Immigrant Guestworkers receiving Nonimmigrant Visas. WHO Congressman Ted Lieu (D|CA-33) Stewart Kwoh, President & Executive Director, Asian Americans Advancing Justice–Los Angeles Yanin Senachai, Staff Attorney, Asian Americans Advancing Justice–Los Angeles Individual trafficked guestworkers from the Philippines will also speak about their personal experiences. WHAT Press conference co-hosted by Congressman Ted Lieu and Asian Americans Advancing Justice–Los Angeles (Advancing Justice–LA) on human trafficking and Filipino Immigrant Guestworkers receiving T Nonimmigrant Status Visas. WHERE Asian Americans Advancing Justice–Los Angeles First Floor Community Room 1145 Wilshire Blvd Los Angeles, CA 90017 (located on the corner of Wilshire Blvd. & Lucas Ave.) & LIVE on Periscope with Parachute TV @ParachuteTV1 WHEN Thursday, June 9, 2016 | 9:30AM BACKGROUND INFORMATION Congressman Ted W. Lieu and Asian Americans Advancing Justice – Los Angeles (Advancing Justice – LA) announce the granting of T Nonimmigrant Status Visas from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to 11 workers from the Philippines who were fraudulently lured by their employer to the United States on Temporary Work Authorization visas to work at bakeries in Beverly Hills and Torrance. They were subjected to exploitative working conditions including debt bondage, severe wage theft, verbal abuse, and national origin discrimination. Before they received T Nonimmigrant Status Visas, the workers also feared deportation as a form of retaliation from their employers and believed their families in the Philippines were in danger. An investigation by the California Labor Commissioner's Office revealed egregious wage and hour abuses at the bakeries, resulting in citations for over $300,000 in penalties and unpaid wages When the workers refused to lie to authorities about their working conditions, the employer retaliated by terminating their positions, leaving the workers in immigration limbo. With the help of Advancing Justice – LA and the law firm of Latham & Watkins LLP, the workers were recently awarded a default judgment of $15.2 million in damages and fees. ###
06.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of today’s tragedy at UCLA. “My thoughts and prayers – and those of my entire staff – are with those affected by today’s tragic events at UCLA. My office stands ready to assist in any way. I also want to thank the first responders, the LAPD, the LAFD, the FBI and UCLA security for their fine service today. This is obviously a difficult day for the Bruin family – for the student body, for their families, for the university’s faculty and staff. I have no doubt that the university will persevere as we move forward together to understand today’s tragedy more fully, mourn those who have been lost, comfort those who have been affected and look for ways to help prevent violence at our schools and universities.” ###
05.31.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. TED LIEU’S MSNBC OP-ED WITH JUDITH ROWLAND OF GLOBAL CITIZEN:"SYRIAN REFUGEE CRISIS CREATES HUGE GAP IN EDUCATION FOR KIDS” Online at MSNBC, Rep. Ted W. Lieu and Judith Rowland, U.S. Policy and Advocacy Manager at Global Citizen, urge the United States and other countries to act as leaders and support critical, lifesaving funding for education in humanitarian emergencies. *** “We risk losing a generation of our brightest minds to the cruel cycle of a protracted crisis. We need donor countries — especially the United States — to lead the charge and ensure that all children have access to education, today and in the future.” “As the Syrian crisis has shown us, the stability of the developing world is vital for the security interests of the United States. Investing in a more secure future for children is the way to protect those interests and combat extremist forces that prey upon disengaged youth.” *** The Full Text of the MSNBC piece can be found HERE. ***
05.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued a statement following the introduction of the Stopping Mass Hacking Act by Congressmen John Conyers (D-MI) and Ted Poe (R-TX). The legislation would overturn the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) changes to Rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure that provide broad authority for DOJ to hack into computers and reduce oversight. The rule changes, which were approved by an internal DOJ review committee and the Supreme Court through a process that is legally permitted only for procedural changes, will go into effect on December 1, 2016, unless Congress acts. Groups such as Google, ACLU, Electronic Frontier Foundation & AccessNow, and Open Technology Institute are against the rule change. “While the Department of Justice is right to seek updates to criminal procedure in light of new cyber techniques used by criminals like IP masking and botnets, the proposed changes to Rule 41 have dramatic implications for our Constitutional right to privacy, law enforcement surveillance tactics and judicial oversight. Such substantive changes have no business being approved through an obscure bureaucratic process and deserve rigorous, public debate. I strongly urge my colleagues to support the Stopping Mass Hacking Act and act now to assert Congress’ role before the December 1 deadline.” ###
05.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after House Republicans voted to defeat the Energy and Water Bill bearing an amendment to uphold President Obama's historic executive order banning anti-LGBT discrimination by federal contractors: “Last night, during consideration of the Energy and Water Appropriations bill, I was proud to vote in favor of Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney’s amendment to ensure that federal contractors don’t discriminate against LGBT workers. After last week’s debacle over a similar amendment, I was pleased that 43 Republicans joined Democrats to vote in favor of Rep. Maloney’s measure. “But, today, other Members of the GOP voted against the Energy and Water Appropriations bill apparently because it would incorporate Mr. Maloney’s inclusive amendment. It’s wrong that some House Republicans are willing to obstruct the appropriations process and their repeated promises of regular order, just to allow discrimination against LGBT people. “The American people demand more of their elected representatives and shouldn’t tolerate this behavior. I hope my colleagues who have taken discriminatory stands against LGBT individuals change their positions and fight for equality instead.” ###
05.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Reps. Ted Deutch (D-FL) and Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) joined with Reps. Steve Israel (D-NY), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Lee Zeldin (R-NY), and Susan Davis (D-CA) to introduce a resolution (H. Res. 750) urging the European Union (EU) to designate the entirety of Hizballah as a terrorist organization and increase pressure on the organization and its members. Currently, the EU only designates Hizballah’s military wing as a terrorist organization, while the United States makes no distinction between its military and political branches when listing the group on its Foreign Terrorist Organization list. Upon introduction, the Members of Congress released the following statement:“Hizballah is an Iranian-backed terrorist organization with a global reach that engages in significant illicit criminal activity to fund its terrorism. It doesn’t matter what part of the organization you’re associated with; if you are connected with Hizballah, you are contributing to the rocket attacks on innocent Israeli civilians, targeted bombings of Jews around the world, slaughter of civilians in Syria, and destabilization of the Middle East. There is no distinction between parts of Hizballah when every part contributes to terrorism. We urge our EU allies to help rein in Hizballah’s dangerous worldwide activities.” The resolution can be viewed here. Last year, Congress passed the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act which tightened sanctions on Hizballah’s criminal and financial networks. ###
05.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (Los Angeles County) has co-led a letter to President Obama asking that the Administration remove marijuana from Schedule I and reassign it to Schedule III or lower, or consider de-scheduling altogether. The letter also asks the Obama Administration to allow for more marijuana research, permit the Veterans Health Administration clinical staff to discuss medical marijuana treatments, fix the marijuana banking issues, and comply with Rohrabacher-Farr provisions. “It is far overdue for the Obama Administration to bring an end to a draconian marijuana policy. Forty-one states have legalized medical cannabis to varying degrees, and four states and the District of Columbia have fully legalized marijuana. As other states look to legalize this fall, including California, it makes zero sense for marijuana to still be placed on Schedule I, a group which includes dangerous substances such as heroin and LSD. With a majority of the American public now embracing legalization, I hope the federal government will follow their lead.” The Full Text of Mr. Lieu’s letter on marijuana policy ###
05.25.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – In recognition of Congressional Foster Youth Shadow Day, Representative Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) hosted a screening of the award winning television show The Fosters, followed by a panel discussion on Monday evening for an audience of over 200 foster youth, national policy experts, congressional staff, and Members of Congress. Today, Rep. Lieu hosted a former foster youth to closely shadow him and experience the life of a Member of Congress for a day. “I firmly believe in the power of entertainment and media to educate audiences about important issues facing our society. The Fosters is a fantastic show which has not only received awards from GLAAD Media, but explores some of the challenges facing the foster care system and hardships faced by foster youth. I am proud to host Angelique for today’s Congressional Foster Youth Shadow Day. Angelique is a Philosophy major at UCLA and spent 3 years in the California foster care system. The fact that Angelique has overcome unbelievable adversity to make it here today is a testament to the human spirit. Angelique plans to use her life to help others and work to make higher education accessible to underrepresented groups, and I know she’ll do great things with her life. We must do a better job protecting our most vulnerable children in our country and work to pass meaningful reforms, such as the Families First Act. For too long, our foster youth have been overlooked by society, and that must change.” ###
05.25.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Representative Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement following the failed ExxonMobil shareholder vote on climate resolutions. “Today, the signature resolution championed by major pension funds to require ExxonMobil to assess climate change risks to its business model failed 61.8% to 38.2%. The vote was not even close. This is not surprising given that in the past two decades over 60 climate change resolutions have been offered by shareholders and ExxonMobil has killed every single one of them. Doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result is one definition of insanity. It is time pension funds such as CalPERS accept reality and divest from ExxonMobil. Evidence has come to light alleging ExxonMobil knew about the science of climate change decades ago, yet embarked on a massive campaign of deception to spread confusion among the public. ExxonMobil may have imperiled all of humanity, and the public’s investments should not be placed in a company that has obstructed climate action and lied to the American people. Pension funds such as CalPERS have argued that by engagement they can change ExxonMobil. If you still believe that, then I have a bridge in California I would like to sell you. CalPERS’ current position is not only factually false, it is morally bankrupt. Representative Mark DeSaulnier and I wrote a letter earlier this month asking CalPERS to divest. In light of ExxonMobil’s slap in the face, again, to CalPERS and those who want to #ActOnClimate, we reiterate our request. The time to divest is now.” ###
05.24.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of the House Appropriations Committee markup of the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2017. During the Full Committee markup, the Committee adopted a manager’s amendment on voice vote to include report language requested by Congressman Lieu and Members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus for an investigation by the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General into allegations of profiling based on race and national origin. These allegations were recently covered by 60 Minutes. The next step for the CJS Appropriations Bill will be consideration on the House Floor. “I am pleased that language to address racial profiling that I have been pushing for has been included in today’s markup. I commend Ranking Member Mike Honda, an iconic champion of Asian American and Pacific Islander civil rights, for his tireless work in addressing a deeply troubling issue impacting the AAPI community. Allegations of racial profiling should never be dismissed without investigation, and I support the Committee’s call for the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General to provide a detailed assessment to Congress of recent cases involving the unjust targeting of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.” Report Language included in the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2017 The Committee has heard concerns that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have been profiled by Department of Justice investigators and prosecutors on the basis of race and national origin, including in espionage and trade secret cases. The Committee expects the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General to assess whether there exists a pattern or practice of using race, national origin, and other civil rights classifications to target Federal employees and other Americans; report on any allegations of civil rights or civil liberties violations committed by DOJ employees in its semiannual reports to Congress as required by Section 1001 of the USA PATRIOT Act (Public Law 107–56); and if such patterns or practices are found to exist, to describe steps the Department has taken to address them. Link to Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus letter to the Inspector General on this issue ###
05.23.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) announced that twelve arts organizations from Los Angeles and Santa Monica received grants from the National Endowment for the Arts totaling $280,000. The grants will be used to fund a variety of arts exhibitions, performances and broadcasts that benefit the community. Awardees include: Museum Associates - To support an exhibition, "The Triumph of Painting in Eighteenth-Century Mexico" at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Designed to highlight this vibrant, but under-examined period, the exhibition will include more than 120 works that reveal stylistic developments and the invention of compelling new iconographies-both religious and secular-reflected in 18th-century Mexican painting. The exhibition will be framed by themes such as power of portraiture, style of great masters, power of the landscape, master storytelling, and the allegorical word. A professional development program will be developed for K-12 teachers to incorporate exhibition content within the classroom. LACMA will provide bus transportation to the museum for students, teachers, and church members located in Hispanic neighborhoods, and will develop bilingual materials for the classroom, guided tours, and art workshops. Given the extensive restoration undertaken for the exhibition, a bi-national conservation symposium is planned with leading Mexican institution Geffen Playhouse, Inc. - To support the premiere of "Big Sky" by Alexandra Gersten-Vassilaros. The cautionary comedy addresses the fragility of the American Dream. It follows an affluent East Coast family on a business trip to Colorado where each family member reveals a life-changing secret that challenges their self-identity, values, and sense of truth. The revelation that most threatens their foundation is the father's admission that they are on the brink of bankruptcy. General audiences will explore the play's themes through learning activities, including artist talkbacks and a special series where they can engage with the artists and other theatergoers. The production will include a sign language interpreted performance and discounted last-minute rush tickets. The project will engage veterans and college students through ticket programs and outreach. The 2002 Tony Award and Outer Critic's Circle Award-winning director John Rando may direct. Skirball Cultural Center - To support a Family Puppet Festival. The festival will feature interactive performances, roaming marionettes, giant puppets, live music, and puppet-making workshops. The event convenes regional puppeteers to present puppetry from diverse cultural traditions and artistic styles, reflecting the region's many heritages while educating audiences, sharing stories across generations, fostering community, and promoting cross-cultural understanding. Academy Foundation - To support planning and development of a web portal for the Cabinet of Wonders gallery at the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures. Objects drawn from the museum's collection will be displayed in the gallery to showcase the history of film, accompanied by a web portal allowing users to select objects from the collection and view associated film clips, artist interviews, and texts online. Historical works to be featured include materials such as an annotated script from "To Kill a Mockingbird" (1962), a Wonka Bar from the set of "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory" (1975), and a 1975 Steadicam camera. Dance Camera West - To support the Dance Media Film Festival. During the festival, Dance Camera West will present contemporary, classic, and alternative dance films, as well as experimental shorts, documentaries, panel discussions, installations, special presentations, and workshops by international artists. Screenings, panels, and filmmaker discussions will be presented at iconic venues in Los Angeles. For the shorts program, the project will include choreography made for the camera. In partnership with the Guadalajara International Film Festival and West Hollywood's Outfest, Dance Camera West also will present the seventh annual Dance-Along, where audiences learn dance steps before the films. The film festival will be a "walking festival," where live dance performance and films are programmed to allow dance audiences to attend many of the events by walking to the next location that is across the street or in the park. A Window Between Worlds - To support The Art Transforms Trauma conference. By collaborating with human service agency leaders, artists will address the effects of trauma and violence. Keynote speakers, panels, and discussions will address how agencies and individuals working in fields such as veteran's services, domestic violence, and gang prevention can use the arts in their work. The conference also will develop methods to evaluate the effect of arts on healing. L.A. Theatre Works - To support the L.A. Theatre Works Live Series and tour. The live audio theater performance series will feature renowned actors performing classic and contemporary plays with scripts-in-hand, at microphones in front of audiences. Performances will be recorded and post-produced into master recordings for preservation and dissemination. Plays in the series may include "Constellations" by Nick Payne? "Significant Other" by Joshua Harmon? "Take Me Out" by Richard Greenberg? "The Tempest" by William Shakespeare and Thornton Wilder's "Our Town." The project will include a national tour of "Judgment at Nuremberg" performed in civic and university venues nationwide with additional educational performances for high-school students, master classes for university students, post-performance talkbacks and panel discussions with directors, actors, scholars, and subject experts. PEN Center USA West - To support PEN in the Community and a mentorship program for emerging writers. PEN in the Community will pair professional writers with classroom teachers and community center personnel to offer creative writing instruction in public schools, as well as in a continuation school for pregnant teenage girls and in an LGBT senior center. Through its emerging writers program, PEN Center USA West will pair promising emerging writers with mentors, and provide them with opportunities for exposure and professional development during an eight-month period. L.A. Theater Works - To support production and distribution activities. L.A. Theatre Works records contemporary and classiH68c stage plays for radio broadcasts, podcasts, and audio CD distribution. Throughout the year, L.A. Theatre Works will produce and broadcast a weekly radio series, produce and distribute new and existing works through its audio publishing program, and distribute titles from its collection to public schools and underserved libraries throughout the United States. This year, "Earnest Live HD," a production of Oscar Wilde's "The Importance of Being Earnest," also will be made available for free, online streaming distribution to schools across the country City of Santa Monica, California - To support the world premiere of "Galileo," a new work by The Industry, a contemporary opera company, with related activities. The staging of "Galileo" will be the single focus of Santa Monica's Glow, a dusk-to-dawn experiential public art event. To accompany the premiere, the Santa Monica Cultural Affairs Division will work with the local school district, the Santa Monica Public Library, and the Santa Monica Conservancy to present community-wide programs that will explore the theme of scientific innovation contained in "Galileo.". Somerset Foundation, Inc. - To support the Hear Now Music Festival. The programming will be curated by Artistic Director Hugh Levick and will feature contemporary chamber music works by Los Angeles-area composers. Festival performances will be held in several venues in the City of Los Angeles. California Dance Institute - To support in-school and after-school dance education for elementary students in the Los Angeles area. Using the teaching methodology developed and refined by Jacques d'Amboise and the National Dance Institute, dance teachers will give children an understanding of the fundamentals of movement, rhythm and music in structured, energetic dance classes with live musical accompaniment. Students will participate in an all-school final performance for the student body, friends, and family.
05.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, D.C. – California Democrats, led by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), issued the following statement after House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy forced Republican Members on Thursday to change their votes to reverse adoption of a measure to prevent federal contractors from discriminating against LGBT individuals: California Congressional Delegation Chair Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19): “In the midst of a chaotic and shocking display of intolerance by my Republican colleagues, I was appalled to see fellow Californian, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, personally pressuring Republicans on the House floor into changing their votes to permit discrimination against LGBT individuals. Four California Republicans – Reps. Denham, Valadao, Walters, and Issa – obeyed Mr. McCarthy and switched their vote. “Californians are better than this. Californians do not abide bigotry, hate, and intolerance. And Californians do not send Members of Congress to Washington so that they can browbeat colleagues into supporting prejudice and discrimination. On the contrary, many public and private entities across California have made their voices heard by pulling business from States and localities – like North Carolina – which permit or encourage discrimination. It's important for Californians to know the Republican Majority Leader in the House played the key role in enacting discrimination against the LGBT community - and that four California Republicans did what they were told and switched their votes." Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra (CA-34): "Equality for all prevailed on the House floor yesterday…until House Republicans twisted arms.” Rep. Mike Honda (CA-17): "My Republican colleagues should be ashamed, particularly those from California who chose fear and discrimination over the open, accepting nature of our state. Taking a stand against discrimination in the workplace is something that I have been proud to do during my time in Congress. I would encourage all of my colleagues to have the same pride in protecting all Americans from discrimination. Unfortunately, rather than supporting the rights we all deserve, several Representatives from our state were convinced, by Leader McCarthy’s and his underlings, to change their vote away from protecting LGBTQ Americans who simply want to work for companies that support our brave military. Endorsing that kind of discrimination is unacceptable to me. Changing your vote to let it happen is even worse." Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-33):“The rejection of Mr. Maloney’s amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act was nothing short of disgraceful. When the voting time expired, the amendment was slated to pass. However, Speaker Ryan chose to disregard his previous promises of regular order and held the vote open so that he could convince some in his party to change their affirmative votes. It’s shameful that some would go to such great lengths to attack the LGBT community.” Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31): “Yesterday, a majority of House Republicans voted to allow discrimination against LGBT Americans. They sacrificed their morals and responsibility to uphold the Constitution in favor of playing party politics. There is no justification for their cowardly actions -- equality is not something that should be up for debate in this country.” ###
05.19.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to the Republican-led House Rules Committee ruling an important cybersecurity amendment (Number 136) out of order during debate of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The Amendment would have prohibited using funds to mandate or request “backdoors” into commercial products (such as mobile devices) that can be used to circumvent encryption or security protections. Rep. Lieu was a co-author of the Amendment, joining a bi-partisan group of members – Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Ted Poe (R-TX), Justin Amash (R-MI) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA). “I am deeply disappointed and equally concerned that House Republicans continue to put politics ahead of national security. In March, Budget Committee Republicans rejected my amendment to fund the Information Technology Modernization Fund. Yesterday, House Rules Committee Republicans refused to let an important “backdoor” cybersecurity NDAA amendment come to the floor for a vote. It is clear that House Republicans are not prioritizing cybersecurity. It is shortsighted and dangerous to let our national security be endangered by inaction on the increasingly urgent issue of cybersecurity.” ###
05.19.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after voting against anti-LGBT measures in the National Defense Authorization Act and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. “The 2017 National Defense Authorization Act includes a provision, Sec. 1094, that would create a broad and vague exemption for federal contractors, effectively codifying taxpayer-funded discrimination against LGBT Americans. The House made multiple attempts to remove Sec. 1094 from the bill. A bipartisan group of Members introduced the Dent-Smith amendment to strike the provision and many of my colleagues and I voted in favor of the Motion to Recommit, which would have also stricken the section. Still, some Members of Congress wrongly decided to support this radical discrimination, and the Motion to Recommit failed with Sec. 1094 intact. Even more disgraceful was today’s rejection of an amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act that would have prohibited federal contractors from receiving federal funds if they discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. When the voting time expired the amendment was slated to pass. However, Speaker Ryan chose to disregard his previous promises of regular order and held the vote open so that he could convince some in his party to change their affirmative votes. It’s shameful that some would go to such great lengths to attack the LGBT community. The truth of the matter is that a person’s sexual orientation and gender identity doesn’t determine their performance on the job; and allowing discrimination in the workplace doesn’t encourage productivity, it drastically harms it. As history consistently illustrates, those who support forms of discrimination are always proven wrong.” Additional Background Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act, which included language in Section 1094 that would create an exemption for federal contractors. This would undermine President Obama’s previous Executive Order, which prohibited federal contractors from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. Today, during consideration of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney introduced an amendment to prohibit discrimination by federal contractors. The amendment ultimately failed. ###
05.19.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to House passage of his amendment (Number 328) to the National Defense Authorization Act: To express a sense of Congress that it is the policy of the United States to support a denuclearized Korean peninsula. “I am pleased that in contrast to the irresponsible, dangerous language of a presumptive nominee for President, the Republican majority in the House has joined with Democrats to unanimously pass my amendment asserting the official policy of the United States to support a denuclearized Korean peninsula. We cannot allow the proliferation of nuclear weapons on the peninsula. We must protect stability in the region by reducing nuclear activity—not increasing it.” ###
05.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, in honor of International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) joined the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus in bringing attention to the discrimination suffered by the LGBT community throughout the world. “We understand that America is a great nation because of our diversity, not in spite of it. And that being LGBT is a beautiful reflection of what it means to be a human being. Please know that we in the LGBT Equality Caucus will always have your back.” MR. LIEU’s ENTIRE VIDEO MESSAGE CAN BE VIEWED HERE ###
05.13.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, at a hearing of the House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) questioned Mr. William Evanina, Director of Counterintelligence at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Given recent cases of Asian Americans (such as Ms. Sherry Chen and Professor Xi Xiaoxing) being wrongfully arrested and indicted by the U.S. Government for allegations of espionage, Mr. Lieu’s questioning prompted Mr. Evanina to commit to the following: To provide training materials/guidance given to federal employees for the implementation of the Insider Threat Program, including safeguards to prevent any civil rights or privacy violations. Segmented data on the number of U.S. Government security clearance holders by race and ethnicity. Mr. Lieu’s full line of questioning and remarks can be viewed here: https://bit.ly/1WvkzmC ###
05.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Yesterday, at a hearing of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) questioned Postmaster General Megan Brennan about multiple issues with mail delivery and mail theft experienced by his constituents in California’s 33rd District. “We have had a number of difficulties with service in my district. First, when we contacted the post office, they were able to help get about 97% of the cases resolved. The problem is, we continue to get more and more cases and they look like a systemic issue in western Los Angeles County.” Mr. Lieu’s full line of questioning and remarks can be viewed here: https://bit.ly/1UTikIN ###
05.11.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to the Executive Director of the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) regarding their study on the use of the highly-toxic substance known as modified hydrofluoric acid (MHF) in California refineries and the safety and feasibility of alternative catalysts. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
05.11.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), joined by Congressman Ted Lieu (D-CA), introduced legislation that creates a comprehensive U.S. strategy to counter disinformation and propaganda around the world. The bill, H.R. 5181, the ‘Countering Foreign Propaganda and Disinformation Act of 2016’ would incorporate a whole-of-government approach without the bureaucratic restrictions, as well as innovative partnerships to combat foreign disinformation and manipulation that have a negative impact on stability and security around the world. “As Russia continues to spew its disinformation and false narratives, they undermine the United States and its interests in places like Ukraine, while also breeding further instability in these countries,” Kinzinger said. “The United States has a role to play in countering these destabilizing actions of propaganda, which is why I’m proud to introduce the ‘Countering Foreign Propaganda and Disinformation Act of 2016.’ This important legislation develops a comprehensive U.S. strategy to counter disinformation campaigns through interagency cooperation and on-the-ground partnerships with outside organizations that have experience in countering foreign propaganda. At a time when countries like Russia and China are engaging in hybrid warfare campaigns, the United States has a unique opportunity to respond to foreign manipulation by encouraging the free flow of truthful information. This can further prevent conflict and ensure future stability.” The United States needs the proper tools to defend its interests against this type of foreign manipulation and effectively defeat these new and emerging threats, while also utilizing on-the-ground communities who are targeted by these disinformation campaigns. This bipartisan House bill is a companion bill to S.2692 introduced by Sens. Rob Portman (R-OH) and Christopher Murphy (D-CT) back in March. “From Ukraine to the South China Sea, foreign disinformation campaigns do more than spread anti-Western sentiments—they manipulate public perception to change the facts on the ground, subvert democracy and undermine U.S. interests. In short, they make the world less safe,” Lieu said. “That’s why the Countering Foreign Disinformation and Propaganda Act is so important. The Act ensures that the U.S. uses all the tools at our disposal to disrupt these vitriolic propaganda campaigns and empower those being manipulated with truthful information. The truth can be a powerful remedy to destabilization and conflict—and we must do all we can to make sure it is heard the world over.” In addition to Congressman Lieu, other original cosponsors include Reps. Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Doug Lamborn (R-CO), Todd Young (R-IN), David Cicilline (D-RI), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Brett Guthrie (R-KY) and Brendan Boyle (D-PA). ###
05.05.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the Los Angeles Times revealed that three people likely died in a hospital in Pasadena, CA from a superbug outbreak due to tainted medical scopes. “New information brought to light today by the Los Angeles Times reveals that three patients likely died from a superbug outbreak due to tainted medical scopes at Huntington Hospital in Pasadena, highlighting again the danger which antibiotic resistant bacteria, or superbugs, pose to our public health. This is why I recently introduced H.R. 4965, the DEVICE Act, and H.R. 4966, the Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act. This legislation would mandate that cleaning instructions for medical devices be scientifically proven to work, and that design changes and safety warnings for devices are reported to the Federal Drug Administration. “Olympus has known since at least 2012 about scope problems and had they acted earlier, potentially three deaths could have been avoided. If Olympus’s device cannot be cleaned effectively, it should not be on the market. Patients should not have to worry that when they undergo a medical procedure the medical device used could expose them to a deadly superbug. President Obama has declared superbugs a national security priority and last year issued a five year plan of action. I call on Congress and all levels of government and local officials to work together to combat this vital threat to our public health and national security.” ###
05.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: BGR.COM EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH REP. TED LIEU ON ENCRYPTIONOnline at Boy Genius Report (BGR.COM), Rep. Lieu discusses why privacy and encryption matters. “As the ideological fault lines over encryption and privacy continue to sharpen and government officials past and present continue moving over to this or that side of the line, Lieu represents an influential addition to the debate.” ***The Full Text of the BGR.COM piece can be found HERE. ***
05.03.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. LIEU DISCUSSES SMARTPHONE SECURITY AND ELECTRONIC PRIVACY ON C-SPAN’s WASHINGTON JOURNAL Online at C-SPAN, Rep. Lieu discusses his recent 60 Minute interview and the need for stronger encryption and privacy policies “I’m a big believer in privacy, I think it’s going to be one of the key civil rights issue of the 21st century.” ***The Full Clip of the Washington Journal piece can be found HERE ***
05.03.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of the announcement by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) of $6 million to fund research to address antimicrobial resistance (AMR). This funding is available through the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative (AFRI), authorized by the 2014 Farm Bill, and administered by USDA’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). “I am pleased that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is dedicating more funding for research to fight antimicrobial resistance. The investigation the House Oversight Committee and I conducted for the past year revealed that antibiotic resistant bacteria (superbug) outbreaks are more widespread than previously thought. President Obama has declared the fight against superbugs is a national security priority and released a five year national plan of action last year. I recently introduced two vital bills in our national effort to combat superbugs: H.R. 4965, the DEVICE Act, and H.R. 4966, the Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act, which help combat superbug outbreaks due to medical devices. I hope Congress will follow the Administration’s lead and also join the fight against superbug outbreaks.” ###
04.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: THE HILL LISTS REP. LIEU AS 1 OF 10 RISING STARS IN ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT WORLD Online at The Hill, Rep. Lieu is among the top 10 rising stars in the energy and environment world. “All of us in America deal with hundreds of issues, but there’s only one issue that can kill humanity as a species if we don’t do something about it, and that’s climate change. That’s why I’m so passionate about mitigating climate change, Rep. Lieu said.” “The first bill Lieu wrote in Congress took a page from California’s climate laws by seeking new limits on carbon emissions, increased energy production from renewable sources and energy efficiency rules.” ***The Full Text of The Hill piece can be found HERE. ***
04.28.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement following Senators Patty Murray (D | WA) and Cory Booker (D | NJ) introducing legislation to empower the Federal Trade Commission to crack down on so-called “conversion therapy” that falsely claims to change a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity. “I am honored that Senator Murray and Senator Booker have introduced the Senate companion to the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act. Last year, I introduced this legislation to enact the first federal ban on so-called ‘conversion therapy’. “Being lesbian, gay, bisexual and/or transgender cannot be and does not need to be ‘cured’, and it is clearly in the best interest of our nation to protect LGBT Americans and their families from being defrauded by conversion therapists. Conversion therapy cannot change an individual’s sexual orientation or gender identity. However, it does seriously harm those subjected to it, leading to depression, suicidal thoughts, and family rejection. All of the mainstream medical and mental health organizations have denounced conversion therapy and it is time Congress does as well. “I am thankful for Senator Murray’s and Senator Booker’s leadership in the Senate and grateful that the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act now has broad bicameral support. I urge our colleagues in the House and the Senate to join us in the fight to end the quackery that is conversion therapy.” ###
04.28.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. LIEU OP-ED ON INJUSTICES OF THE MONEY BAIL SYSTEM Online at Talk Poverty, Rep. Lieu pens an op-ed on the many injustices of our current money bail system and the urgent need for criminal justice reform. Rep. Lieu introduced the “No Money Bail Act of 2016” in February of 2016 to reform our system of pretrial detention. “Across the country, it comes down to this: People of means are able to pay their way out of jail, while the poor remain behind bars awaiting their day in court.” “Justice in America should not be bought and paid for. For the sake of Jeffrey Pendleton, Sandra Bland, Qiana Williams, and the countless other Americans who have suffered at the hands of our unjust money bail system, it is long past time that the United States join the rest of the civilized world when it comes to pretrial incarceration.” ***The Full Text of the Talk Poverty piece can be found HERE. ***
04.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement in response to the release of the GAO Report: “Vehicle Cybersecurity: DOT and Industry Have Efforts Under Way, but DOT Needs to Define Its Role in Responding to a Real-world Attack.” “Interconnected cars offer opportunities for safer highways, but also increase the risk that cyberattacks could turn our cars into weapons or paralyze an entire city. That is why the Security and Privacy in Your (SPY) Car Study Act, which Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and I introduced last year, recommends that we need greater cooperation and leadership in setting enforceable cybersecurity standards and responses in case of a cyberattack. The GAO study confirms this and shows that progress is being made by both the Department of Transportation and automakers, but there are some glaring holes that need to be addressed quickly." "I want to thank House Science and Technology Subcommittee Research and Technology Chair Barbara Comstock and Ranking Member Daniel Lipinski for the opportunity to sign on to this study request and I look forward to working with them and others to ensure that interconnected cars means safe, secure transportation for all Americans." Congressman Lieu is an original cosponsor of H.R. 3994, the Security and Privacy in Your Car (SPY) Car Study Act, which would require the National Highway Safety Transportation Administration to conduct a one year study in cooperation with engineers, automakers, advocates and the National Institute of Standards and Technology to evaluate the best approach to regulating automotive cybersecurity. He was one of the four Members of Congress to sign on to the request to the GAO to evaluate the challenges to automotive cybersecurity. Congressman Lieu is also one of four Computer Science majors serving in Congress and is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Information Technology. ###
04.22.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has introduced a joint resolution in the House (H.J. RES 90) to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia. Previously, in letters to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Joseph Dunford, Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Ash Carter, Mr. Lieu has expressed deep concern over the tragic civilian deaths caused by the Saudi-led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. Mr. Lieu’s resolution is the House companion to S. J. Res. 32, which was introduced by Senators Chris Murphy (CT) and Rand Paul (KY) last week. Upon introduction of H.J. RES 90, Mr. Lieu made the following statement: “The United States needs to send a clear message to Saudi Arabia: the continued civilian casualties in Yemen are completely unacceptable. The Saudis need to do everything in their power to eliminate the risk to innocent civilians in this conflict and until they do the U.S. should not be supporting their military actions there.” H.J. RES 90 was co-sponsored by Republican Congressman Ted Yoho of Florida. Mr. Yoho issued the following statement upon introduction of the resolution: “We must make sure that Saudi military action is actually targeting terrorist groups, protecting civilian populations, facilitating humanitarian aid in their military actions in Yemen, and given the recent news regarding the Kingdom’s connections with 9/11 attacks, we must make sure that they are targeting all terrorist groups including al Qaeda. Until Congress has been able to conduct proper oversight and ensured that the use of the air to ground munitions are being used in a manner that is consistent with the United States’ national security strategy we should halt the sale of said munitions.” H.J. RES 90 SUMMARY Under H.J. RES 90, President Obama must certify the following: 1. The Government of Saudi Arabia is not providing funding, materiel support, or lethal aid to designated foreign terrorist organizations. 2. The Government of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are taking all feasible precautions to reduce the risk of harm to civilians and civilian infrastructure to comply with their obligations under international humanitarian law, in the course of military action undertaken in their self-defense as described in section 4 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2754). 3. The Government of Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners are making demonstrable efforts to facilitate both humanitarian assistance and commercial goods, including commercial fuel and commodities not prohibited by UN Security Council Resolution 2216 (2015) 4. The Government of Saudi Arabia is taking all necessary measures to target designated foreign terrorist organizations, including al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and affiliates of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant as part of its military operations in Yemen. THE FULL TEXT OF H.J. RES 90 ###
04.22.2016	Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) joined fellow House Democrats to film a call for environmental justice in the face of the Republican Majority’s abrogation of its responsibility to act on environmental crises and to address the accelerating impacts of climate change. WATCH: @RepTedLieu & @HouseDemocrats Call To Environmental Action Mr. Lieu, a leader in Congress on the issue of climate, also issued the following Earth Day statement: “We look around and see the devastation already happening due to climate change. From public health crises, to severe droughts and famine, to wildfires and floods, the time to act is long past overdue. My home state of California is entering into its fifth year of a historic drought. This past year was the hottest on record, surpassing the unprecedented record set by 2014. Already, the first three months of 2016 have witnessed record high temperatures. “As a result, on this Earth Day, I call on House Republicans and climate deniers to wake up, look around, and act on climate. When the Vatican, the U.S. Military, 97% of climate scientists and Exxon Mobil’s own scientists recognize climate science, I wonder what climate deniers think they know that these global leaders don’t. “To those who continue to spread lies and deception about climate science and to those who continue to perpetuate climate deceit – you are responsible for the destruction of our planet and potentially all of humanity, and you must be held accountable.” ***
04.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: LOS ANGELES NEWS GROUP EDITORIAL: REP. TED LIEU ON ENCRYPTION POLICY Online at the websites of the Los Angeles News Group, the Publisher’s Editorial Board explores Congressman Lieu’s leadership in Congress to ensure encryption policies protect the privacy of all Americans. “Lieu understands that prizing digital privacy doesn’t put you on the side of the evildoers — in fact, breaking down encryption would make it easier for terrorists and criminals to attack our businesses and national defense.” “Lieu has co-authored the Ensuring National Constitutional Rights for Your Private Telecommunications (ENCRYPT) Act of 2016, which would head off a state-by-state patchwork of laws weakening encryption. Lieu also is a leader of a push to create a 9/11-style commission of experts and advocates in the fields of technology, law enforcement, economics, privacy rights and others to sort out digital privacy and national security issues.” “This is the right side of an old American issue. As Lieu correctly said, making some criminal investigations easier isn’t worth trading our national and economic security.” ***The Full Text of the Daily Bulletin piece can be found HERE. ***
04.19.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Online at CBS News 60 Minutes, Congressman Ted Lieu discusses cybersecurity and encryption with reporter Sharyn Alfonsi after his cellphone was hacked to demonstrate a security flaw in the global mobile network. “Last year, the president of the United States called me on my cellphone. And we discussed some issues. So if the hackers were listening in, they would know that phone conversation. And that's immensely troubling.” “You cannot have 300-some million Americans--and really, right, the global citizenry be at risk of having their phone conversations intercepted with a known flaw, simply because some intelligence agencies might get some data. That is not acceptable.” ***The Full Text of the 60 Minutes piece can be found HERE ***
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has sent a letter to the leadership of the House Oversight Committee requesting a full investigation into the significant vulnerability that has been identified in the global mobile network that allows hackers to monitor callers' conversations, messages and location data with relative ease. The full text of Mr. Lieu's letter can be found here. ###
04.18.2016	Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement in light of today’s bus bombing in Jerusalem. “Today’s bus bombing in Jerusalem was a horrific attack against civilians, and tragically the latest in a wave of terrorism. The perpetrators must be brought to justice and their actions universally condemned by all those who stand for peace. No one should have to live in fear of being bombed on their way to work or visiting a friend, and I stand firmly with the Israeli people in their right to defend themselves against these attacks.” ***
04.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES – On Saturday, April 16, Congressman Ted Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) will host California’s 33rd Congressional District art competition. WHAT: Congressional Art Competition WHERE: Education Suite, Wallis Annenberg Center for Performing Arts 9390 N Santa Monica Blvd, Beverly Hills, CA 90210 WHEN: April 16, 2016 | 2:00pm- 4:00pm Background: The Congressional Art Competition is a national competition that recognizes and encourages artistic talent in high school students. Students submit their original art piece to their representative and a panel of art professionals select the winning entry. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in Washington D. C. The winning works are displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. ###
04.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) introduced two pieces of legislation after a yearlong investigation he requested by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform found significant gaps in existing law that contributed to a nationwide problem of superbug outbreaks due to tainted duodenoscopes. Upon introduction of his legislation, Rep. Lieu made the following statement: “Antibiotic-resistant bacteria are a major threat to public health. I am proud to introduce these pieces of legislation today in response to the numerous superbug outbreaks happening in hospitals across the nation. Patients and hospitals deserve to know that the medical devices being used on patients can be properly cleaned and are designed effectively. Patients should not be worried that undergoing a routine medical procedure could lead to them becoming infected with a deadly superbug. What happened to the patients and families at UCLA Medical Center and hospitals across the country should not happen again. “I am deeply grateful to the Oversight and Government Reform Committee for making this issue a top priority. This legislation is a result of their yearlong investigation into the many superbug outbreaks caused by tainted duodenoscopes across the country. I am also grateful to FDA for cooperating fully with my office and the Oversight Committee. Through diligent hard work and investigation, the Committee has identified many of the causes and solutions needed to protect patients from future superbug outbreaks.” Rep. Lieu’s New Superbug Legislation The DEVICE Act (Disclosure; and Encouragement of Verification, Innovation, Cleaning, and Efficiency) This legislation further increases patient safety by requiring device manufacturers to notify Federal Drug Administration (FDA) whenever they change the design or cleaning instructions of their devices. The bill also requires manufacturers to notify FDA whenever safety warnings are issued in foreign countries related to the design and cleaning of devices. Finally, the bill requires FDA to further regulate tests of medical devices to determine whether bacteria are present. Upon introduction of The DEVICE Act, Rep. Elijah Cummings, Ranking Member, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, made the following statement: “Congressman Lieu has been steadfast in addressing this critical public health issue on behalf of his constituents and the nation. His leadership is a strong example of elected officials identifying problems and implementing solutions that the will help improve the lives of the American people.” *** The Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act This legislation improves safety for patients undergoing medical procedures by requiring that the reprocessing instructions for medical devices be scientifically validated. This ensures that the cleaning instructions for medical devices actually work. Furthermore, this is the House companion bill to the Senate bill, which, last month, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, introduced. Rep. Peter Roskam (R-IL) also introduced The Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act in the House along with Mr. Lieu. Upon House introduction of The Preventing Superbugs and Protecting Patients Act, Senator Murray made the following statement: “Patients should be able to trust that the medical devices used in their treatment are safe and effective, but as we saw in my home state of Washington, our medical device monitoring system too often falls short. I’m proud to be working with Representative Lieu on legislation that would provide the FDA with additional tools to review and ensure the safety of medical devices like duodenoscopes, and I’m committed to continued work to improve our medical device monitoring system and protect patients and families in Washington state and across the country.” Legislation Background Last year, at the UCLA Medical Center, hundreds of patients were exposed to the antibiotic-resistant bacteria (or superbug) Carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae (CRE), due to tainted duodenoscopes in a routine medical procedure, and the Los Angeles Times reported three patients died related to CRE infected duodenoscopes. Shortly afterwards, another outbreak also from CRE tainted duodenoscopes occurred at Cedars-Senai Medical Center. These are two of several outbreaks which have occurred across the country. One of the causes of the outbreaks was the difficulty in cleaning the devices and a lack of scientifically verified reprocessing guidances. ###
04.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued a statement following Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer’s introduction of the Information Technology Modernization Act. Congressman Lieu is one of seven original cosponsors of the bill, which was outlined by the White House last week as one component of the Cybersecurity National Action Plan. In March, Congressman Lieu introduced a House Budget Committee amendment in support of the $3 billion Information Technology Modernization Fund. "I am pleased to join the President, Democratic Whip Hoyer, and several of my colleagues in supporting our nation's cybersecurity with the Information Technology Modernization Act.” “A 21st century government depends on technology to serve the people, and this legislation will go a long way in making sure that our IT systems are both modern and secure throughout the government. The self-sustaining investment fund is an innovative way to rapidly upgrade our outdated and vulnerable IT systems while supporting our federal technology infrastructure for the future. Critically, the independent board of experts will prioritize the government's highest-risk systems and use a government-wide approach to move towards more common platforms and boost efficiency.” "If we do not invest in our technology and cybersecurity now, we will have no one to blame for the next data breach but ourselves. I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join us in this effort." ###
04.08.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: CONGRESSMAN LIEU'S DAILY DOT OP-ED ON ENCRYPTION Online at The Daily Dot: In the aftermath of the #FBIvsApple saga, one thing is clear, Congress must not repeat the mistakes of the past. Mr. Lieu discusses the topic of encryption and his bill, the ENCRYPT Act. “Attempts to restrict encryption at the state or local levels would only serve to undermine security and economic competitiveness for the entire nation.” “That is why I introduced the Ensuring National Constitutional Rights for Your Private Telecommunications (ENCRYPT) Act, along with my colleagues Reps. Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Suzan DelBene (D-Washington), and Mike Bishop (R-Michigan). This bipartisan bill would preempt state and local governments from creating a disastrous patchwork of different encryption laws. The U.S. Constitution grants Congress the authority to regulate interstate commerce, and the ENCRYPT Act sends a clear message that the complicated issues with encryption must be addressed thoughtfully and nationally.” “The stakes in the encryption debate are high, with significant consequences for personal privacy, the U.S. private sector, and our national security. Weaker encryption standards would mean less security and more successful cyberattacks, government records downloaded by foreign adversaries, patient health records stolen by criminals, and movie studios hacked for exercising their freedom to create films about dictators. As the Crypto Wars 2.0 play out a familiar story, it is critical for Congress to address these complex issues thoughtfully and not repeat the mistakes of the past.” *** The Full Text of The Daily Dot piece can be found HERE *** ###
04.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: CONGRESSMAN LIEU’S OP-ED ON DRIVERLESS CAR SECURITY Online at The HillRep. Lieu and Rep. Wilson discuss securing the digital safety of an increasingly connected auto industry “Increasing automation and Internet connectivity in cars is an incredible innovation nearly every automaker provides that enhances consumer’s lives and satisfaction. We must encourage continued private sector innovation; yet, as cars become more Internet-connected and automated, their software systems become vulnerable to malicious and potentially deadly attacks by hackers, criminals and even violent extremists.” “Through public-private partnership, the federal government has an important role to play in securing the digital safety of an increasingly connected auto industry. Our bipartisan legislation, the Security and Privacy in Your (SPY) Car Study Act, is a first step in bringing industry, advocates and government together to encourage innovation while ensuring consumer protection.” “As the future of driverless cars rapidly arrives, the public and private sectors must work together to ensure that a car can never become a weapon. It remains critical that the federal government leverage the expertise and research that the private sector has already invested in this critical issue. Joint accountability and innovation will help us get car cybersecurity right.” ***The Full Text of the The Hill piece can be found HERE.*** ###
04.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Los Angeles – Last week, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) announced his latest legislation: the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act (H.R. 4871). Mr. Lieu was Joined by Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Los Angeles City Councilman Mike Bonin, Culver City Councilman Jim Clarke and Manhattan Beach City Councilman Wayne Powell at the announcement in front of the Ballona Freshwater Marsh. Upon introduction of H.R. 4871, Mr. Lieu released the following statement: “Whether it is conserving the Ballona Wetlands, preserving our beaches or creating more opportunities for recreation in our urban areas like the Baldwin Hills and San Pedro, this bill is a first step toward making more federal resources available for our trails, beaches and open space. Expanding the Santa Monica National Recreation Area would make more scientific and infrastructure funds available thereby addressing a shortage of resources to preserve open space for conservation and recreation in our community.” More Information on H.R. 4871 The Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Study Act’s co-sponsors include California Congressmembers Maxine Waters, Karen Bass, Janice Hahn and Adam Schiff. The bill would commission the National Park Service to conduct a three year Special Resource Study on whether to add the entire Santa Monica Bay coastline from Venice Beach in Los Angeles to Rat Beach in Torrance, as well as the Ballona Wetlands, Ballona Creek, Baldwin Hills and San Pedro coastline to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. The results of the study and public hearings would form the basis for follow-up legislation to add the recommended areas to the 150,000 acre National Recreation Area that currently encompasses the northern Santa Monica Bay watershed from the Hollywood Hills and Santa Monica to Point Mugu. Adding these areas to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area would make federal scientific and infrastructure resources available to maintain open space for conservation and recreational use in urban areas without affecting private property rights or putting additional costs on state or local government. It would also bring the first National Park Service presence to South Los Angeles, the South Bay cities and San Pedro. The Full Text of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Study Act. Additional Pictures from the Event ###
03.31.2016	REPRESENTATIVES TED LIEU & MARK DESAULNIER ASK CalPERS TO DIVEST FROM EXXONMOBILRequest is latest step in effort to bring accountability to ExxonMobil in light of growing concerns about the company’s deception on climate science Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (D | San Francisco Bay Area) have written a letter to Ms. Anne Stausboll, the CEO of California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS), requesting that the agency divest from ExxonMobil. The Lieu/DeSaulnier letter follows on the heels of the Rockefeller Family Fund’s announcement of its decision to divest from ExxonMobil, noting that the company’s deception on climate issues is “morally reprehensible.” Mr. Lieu and Mr. DeSaulnier have been leading voices in Congress calling on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice to investigate ExxonMobil’s fraudulent practices on climate science. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and Mr. DeSaulnier write: “We commend CalPERS for its focus on ethics, and we believe that in the case of ExxonMobil, it is morally suspect for CalPERS to invest in a company that engaged in morally reprehensible conduct on one of the most important issues facing humanity: our climate.” “We now know from various investigations that ExxonMobil has misled CalPERS, federal and state policymakers, and the American public for decades on what its own scientists knew about climate change.” “It is now time for CalPERS to take action and divest from ExxonMobil. As the nation's largest public pension fund, CalPERS can set a visionary example for other funds to follow.” *** The full text of the Lieu/DeSaulnier letter can be found here. ***
03.30.2016	PRESS CONFERENCE: REP. TED LIEU TO ANNOUNCE SANTA MONICA MOUNTAINS NATIONAL RECREATION AREA BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT STUDY ACTWHO U.S. Congressman Ted W. Lieu, Councilmember Mike Bonin and Councilmember Joe Buscaino.WHAT Mr. Lieu, supported by local electeds and advocates, formally announces his new legislation to study an expansion of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. WHERE The Ballona Freshwater Marsh ***directions to the marsh***WHEN Thursday, March 31 | 10:45 AM Pacific Time Background Mr. Lieu’s Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act (H.R. 4871) authorizes a 3-year study on the feasibility of expanding the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (or creating a new National Recreation Area) to include all of the beaches of the Santa Monica Bay as well as the Ballona Wetlands, Ballona Creek, Baldwin Hills and San Pedro coastline. Such an expansion would establish the first ever National Park Service presence in South Los Angeles. ###
03.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement given the announcement by Vice President Al Gore and New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman of a coalition of 20 states dedicated to holding oil companies accountable for their fraud on climate science. Congressman Lieu has been the leading voice in Congress requesting the SEC and the Department of Justice investigate deceptive actions by oil companies (such as ExxonMobil and Shell) on climate science. “I applaud Vice President Al Gore and the 20 Attorneys General who came together today to pledge to fight climate change and to hold fossil fuel companies accountable for their devastating actions in misleading the public on the truth of climate change. A company such as ExxonMobil may have single handedly contributed irreversible harm to the future of our world. Gore and the Attorneys General today have sent a strong signal that corporations who have deceived the public about climate change and are working against action on the climate crisis will be held responsible for their actions. It took 40 years to take on the tobacco companies for their public health fraud, and as Vice President Gore said, ‘We do not have 40 years to continue suffering the fraud allegedly being committed by the fossil fuel companies.’ I call on ExxonMobil to join Democrats’ urgent mission in Congress to act on climate and save our planet.” ###
03.28.2016	Congressman Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued a statement following the Department of Justice’s decision to withdraw its lawsuit against Apple to compel the technology company to create new firmware to undermine the iPhone’s built-in digital security. On February 23, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to FBI Director James Comey requesting that the FBI withdraw the lawsuit. “I am pleased that the Justice Department has finally abandoned its ill-conceived lawsuit. As I previously wrote to Director Comey, using the court process and an antiquated law to accomplish the FBI’s goal was especially inappropriate in this situation given that Congress and the White House were actively engaged on the issue. The fact that the FBI ultimately found an alternative solution suggests that it did not conduct full due diligence before filing the lawsuit. The entire episode underscores the need for the executive branch to use extraordinary restraint when it comes to exerting extraordinary powers.” ###
03.28.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to NSA Director Admiral Michael S. Rogers regarding reports that NSA data may soon be used for domestic policing. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
03.25.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of the announcement that the Rockefeller Family Fund is divesting from major segments of the fossil fuel industry, including ExxonMobil. Congressman Lieu has been the leading voice in Congress requesting the SEC and the Department of Justice investigate ExxonMobil’s deceptive actions on climate science. "I commend the Rockefeller Family Fund for divesting from ExxonMobil based on the company’s morally reprehensible conduct in deceiving the American public on climate change. I call on all other funds that have a moral compass to follow the Rockefeller Family Fund and divest from ExxonMobil, including large pension funds such as the California Public Employees’ Retirement System and the New York State Common Retirement Fund. “I also find it disconcerting that Exxon Mobil, rather than admit the truth, is now smearing those who criticize the company as engaging in a ‘conspiracy.’ Doubling down on a false narrative and using conspiratorial language is something that demagogues do, not a company that purportedly prides itself on using science and technology to succeed." ###
03.24.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) ordering ExxonMobil to include a resolution on its annual shareholder proxy that would force the company to outline for investors how its profitability may be affected by climate change and the legislation that aims to combat it. Congressman Lieu has been the leading voice in Congress requesting the SEC and the Department of Justice investigate ExxonMobil’s deceptive actions on climate science. “I am pleased that the Securities and Exchange Commission has heeded my request to ensure that ExxonMobil is following the law as it relates to disclosure of climate change information to its shareholders. Troubling reports have come to light showing that ExxonMobil confirmed the science of climate change as early as the 1970s, yet spent decades publicly engaged in a campaign of denial and deception. ExxonMobil has a duty to its shareholders not to obscure the truth behind climate change.” ###
03.22.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement in the wake of today’s terror attacks in Brussels, Belgium: “My thoughts and prayers – and those of my entire staff - are with the victims and their families of today's terrible events in Brussels, Belgium. The perpetrators of these cowardly, murderous acts must be brought to justice. The United States stands shoulder to shoulder with our Belgian and European allies to confront extremism and terror with unwavering vigilance and the deepest commitment to our core values of peace and freedom.” ###
03.18.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - In an exclusive piece for the award-winning SALON.COM, journalist Ben Norton covers Congressman Ted W. Lieu's latest action in light of civilian deaths in Yemen - the result of airstrikes orchestrated by a Saudi Arabian-led coalition. Mr. Norton's piece focuses on a letter Congressman Lieu has sent to Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of Defense Ash Carter asking for more information about coalition military operations and the targeting of civilians in Yemen. "Rep. Lieu, who served on active duty in the U.S. Air Force and attended Air War College, wrote in the letter that the 'apparent indiscriminate airstrikes on civilian targets in Yemen seem to suggest that either the coalition is grossly negligent in its targeting or is intentionally targeting innocent civilians.'" *** The full Ben Norton / Salon Magazine piece can be found here. ***
03.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement following the party-line passage (22 Republican Yea Votes, 14 Democratic Nay Votes) of the Republican budget resolution by the House Budget Committee. “Last night, Republicans on the House Budget Committee rammed through a shameful plan to balance the budget on the backs of our children, our seniors and our nation’s most vulnerable, while gladly gutting environmental protections along the way. I will continue to fight the GOP Budget Resolution every step of the way going forward.” “Here are the top five reasons for my opposition to the House GOP Budget: The House GOP mission to end the Medicare guarantee and cut Social Security means reduced benefits for a senior citizen in Calabasas who has paid into these programs her entire life. The House GOP budget makes deep cuts to environmental programs, resulting in dirtier air and water in our beach communities. House GOP cuts of $1 trillion to social safety net programs and the loss of Medicaid expansion through a repeal of the Affordable Care Act means a single mother in Venice will lose her health care. House GOP plan to slash Pell Grants means more student debt for undergraduates attending UCLA and our community colleges. Despite calls for action by a diverse set of leaders such as the U.S. Military and Pope Francis, the House GOP Budget does not even contain the phrase ‘climate change,' let alone put forth a plan to combat its increasingly dangerous and destructive effects.” ###
03.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the rejection of his House Budget Committee amendment to invest $3 billion in one time mandatory spending to fully fund the startup of President Obama’s Information Technology Modernization Fund. Outdated legacy systems and underutilization of best practices across the federal government have put some of our nation’s most essential electronic assets at risk. These legacy systems are hard to defend from cyberattacks and expensive to maintain. President Obama’s proposed $3 billion information Technology Modernization Fund will help overcome these two challenges so that the government does not spend 71 percent of its annual $51 billion IT budget on legacy systems. “I am greatly disappointed that House Republicans continue to put politics ahead of national security. Implementing the President’s Cybersecurity National Action Plan by investing $3 billion to fund upgrade legacy systems, which are both hard to secure and expensive to maintain should be an approach both sides of the aisle can agree on. Instead, Republicans on the Budget Committee rejected my amendment to fund the Information Technology Modernization Fund. We cannot stand idly by and let our national security be endangered by inaction and underfunding. ###
03.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the discovery of hate graffiti on the campus of Palisades Charter High School. “I am appalled over the recent report of hate graffiti found at Palisades Charter High School over the weekend. The deplorable images of anti-Semitic, homophobic, and racist slurs and symbols are unacceptable and not representative of the ideals of my constituents or this district. I commend the students for their peaceful reaction to this event, their request for an explanation and their creation of positive images to counter this appalling action.” ###
03.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) announced that he will introduce an amendment to the House Budget Resolution to help cities, counties and states get the lead out of America’s drinking water. Mr. Lieu’s House Budget Committee amendment would recommend increasing the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund to $3.1 billion over the next five years. The amendment would also recommend spending $19.8 million for the Centers for Disease Control Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention program. Established in 1996 through an amendment to the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund program provides cities and counties with an independent source of low-cost financing for water quality infrastructure projects. Upon introduction of the amendment, Mr. Lieu made the following statement: “Beyond Flint, Michigan, the United States has a $1 trillion dollar lead pipe problem that threatens the health and safety of our children. Of the 29 states that report lead levels in drinking water, over 150 counties have reported incidents of lead poisoning in children caused by drinking water. “Instead of protecting our children, Republicans cut funding to the Clean Drinking Water State Revolving Fund by nearly $100 million due to the Sequester. This amendment will help us keep our children safe and our drinking water clean.” ###
03.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONGRESSMAN TED LIEU STATEMENT ON HOUSE VOTE TO SUPPORT TAIWAN STANDING IN INTERPOL WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House passage of S. 2426, a bill to direct the President to develop a strategy to obtain observer status for Taiwan in the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL). “I am proud to cast my vote today in favor of S. 2426, a bill which has demonstrated a clear consensus in Congress for Taiwan obtaining observer status in INTERPOL. Fighting crime and terrorism is an obligation shared by all. I am pleased that the measure passed with overwhelming bipartisan support.” ###
03.10.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement today on the recent violence in Israel and the death of American student and combat veteran Taylor Force: “I am deeply saddened by the recent spree of indiscriminate stabbings against civilians in Israel. These horrific terrorist attacks have not only robbed Israelis of their loved ones and their sense of security, but they have also taken the life of a young American graduate student, Taylor Force. As a West Point graduate and combat veteran, Taylor represented the best of our country and is mourned by a grateful nation. “These stabbings, like the suicide bombs before them, will never triumph over the Israeli spirit. I stand with Israel in its right to defend itself from violence, and I will continue to reject any efforts that undermine peace.” ###
03.09.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: REP. TED LIEU & DAVID DINIELLI OP-ED ON SO-CALLED “CONVERSION THERAPY” Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and David Dinielli have penned an exclusive opinion piece for The Hill. The op-ed, entitled “Time to Put an End to ‘Conversion Therapy’” draws upon recent efforts to investigate conversion therapy as fraud. Last year, Congressman Lieu introduced the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act, the first federal bill aimed at preventing conversion therapy. David Dinielli is the deputy legal director at the Southern Poverty Law Center and worked closely with Congressman Lieu to introduce the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act. In the op-ed, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Dinielli write: “This form of quackery, rooted in the idea that gay people are mentally ill and need to be “cured,” has been thoroughly discredited by the medical and mental health establishments. Instead, there are countless stories demonstrating that the practice has many harmful side effects, including depression, suicidal thoughts and family alienation…” *** “For far too, long conversion ‘therapists’ have profited off of the fraud that is conversion therapy. The FTC must take action by investigating People Can Change and other practitioners. Congress, with support from both sides of the aisle, must also pass a federal ban on conversion therapy.” *** “It’s time to stop the lies and protect our fellow Americans.” *** The full text of the op-ed can be found here. ***
03.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 ADVISORY:CONGRESSMAN TED LIEU TO DELIVER KEYNOTE REMARKS AT SOCAL PERSIAN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION DINNER/PERSIAN NEW YEAR CELEBRATION Los Angeles – On Wednesday, March 7, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) will deliver the keynote at this year’s SoCal Persian American Medical Association Dinner/Persian New Year Celebration event to discuss the future of healthcare reform and Medicare. *** WHO Congressman Ted Lieu (D|CA-33) Illya Rachman, MD, PhD, Clinical Instructor at UCLA School of Medicine Kamran Khavarani, PhD, Architect, Creator of Abstract Romanticism WHAT SoCal Persian American Medical Association Dinner & Persian New Year Celebration WHERE Torrance Ayres Hotel 14400 Hindry Avenue Hawthrone, CA 90250WHENWednesday, March 9 -- 6:00pm Pacific Time ***
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, March 3, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) will join the Wilson Center’s National Conversation panel on encryption, “Will They or Won’t They? Understanding the Encryption Debate.” In a California court, Apple CEO Tim Cook and FBI Director James Comey are battling over the phone of the San Bernardino gunman - an iPhone that Comey says Apple has a legal obligation to help unlock. Apple, for its part, says that aiding the FBI here would undermine both security and privacy for millions of smartphone users. For technologists, policymakers and everyday smartphone users, the dispute is uncharted territory. Introduced this year, Congressman Lieu will discuss his “ENCRYPT ACT,” legislation that would preempt state and local government encryption laws to ensure a uniform, national policy for the interstate issue of encryption technology. WHO Congressman Ted Lieu (D|CA-33) Susan Hennessey (Managing Editor, Lawfare) Katie Martin (Senior Fellow, Center for American Progress) Event Moderated By: David Perera (Cybersecurity Report, Politico Pro) WHAT Wilson Center National Conversation “Will They or Won’t They? Understanding the Encryption Debate” WHERE The Wilson Center Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center One Woodrow Wilson Plaza 1300 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, DC 20004-3027 Moynihan Board Room, 6th Floor &LIVE on Periscope with Parachute TV @ParachuteTV1WHENThursday, March 3, 2016 | 3:00-4:15PM RSVP HERE ###
02.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) helped introduce the National Commission on Security and Technology Challenges. This legislation would create a digital security commission to discuss and recommend proposals on how law enforcement approach investigations without undermining constitutional privacy protections or American competitiveness. The bill was sponsored by Congressman Mike McCaul (TX) and co-sponsored by Democrats Ted Lieu (CA), Susan DelBene (OR), James Langevin (RI), Jerry McNerney (CA), Eric Swalwell (CA) and Kathleen Rice (CA) as well as Republicans Pat Meehan (MI), Ryan Costello (PA) Blake Farenthold (TX), Mike Bishop (MI), Will Hurd (TX), Daniel Donovan (NY), and Barbara Comstock (VA). “Strong national security and a strong economy requires strong encryption. As an original co-sponsor of the bill to create a Congressional Digital Security Commission, I hope that this bill will enable us to move forward with a bipartisan, thoughtful conversation between industry, privacy/consumer advocates and law enforcement on the importance of weaving encryption and digital security into our democratic society. The commission of experts has the opportunity to examine policy solutions to law enforcement concerns while protecting American security, competitiveness and privacy. “The critical issues in this debate--which will affect our lives for years to come--should be decided by the American people, stakeholders and Congress with the assistance of experts, not by an unelected magistrate judge interpreting a law first passed in 1789. It is time the FBI and DOJ withdraw their coercive demands of Apple and allow the democratic process to work.” ###
02.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE “Today, I voted against the so-called ‘Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreation Enhancement (SHARE) Act.’ Unfortunately, the bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 242 to 161, despite strong opposition from President Obama and dozens of environmental and animal welfare organizations. “On its surface, the SHARE Act expands access to federally-controlled lands for hunting, fishing, and recreation shooting. In actuality, though, the bill is an unnecessary and destructive attack on protections for animals and the environment. For example, it blocks President Obama’s efforts to restrict the illegal trafficking of ivory; allows hunters to acquire permits to import polar bear trophies; reissues a Fish and Wildlife Service decision to delist the gray wolf; and, prevents the regulation of toxic substances, such as lead, present in hunting equipment. Additionally concerning is that the House blocked the adoption of amendments that would have protected the Arctic Refuge and certain ocean national parks. “I am deeply disappointed by the SHARE Act’s passage. We are fortunate to live in a nation with policies that allow for the preservation of unique species and pristine wilderness areas, like Yosemite National Park and the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. Instead of tearing down our nation’s bedrock environmental protections, we must strengthen them so that these sites and species can be enjoyed for future generations.” ###
02.25.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding Apple’s Motion to Vacate. This is the latest development in Apple’s standoff with the Department of Justice. “Apple’s legal brief makes persuasive arguments for why the Government should withdraw its Motion compelling the company to create new software to weaken its smartphone encryption system. As a Member of Congress, I can confirm that last year the FBI tried and failed to get Congress to enact proposals that would provide a ‘back door’ way to access data on smartphones. As a Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and its Information Technology Subcommittee, we held hearings on this exact issue. During the hearing, the government witnesses admitted that it was impossible to create a back door just for the FBI without risking that back door from being exploited by hackers and foreign adversaries.” “It is wrong for the FBI and Department of Justice to now use the court system and a disingenuous interpretation of a law passed in 1789 to circumvent Congress, stakeholders and the American people. Having served on active duty in the military and as a current reserve officer, I strongly believe that when it comes to terrorists we need to hunt them down and kill them. Strong encryption, however, is also a critical national security priority. The massive hack of security clearance records at the Office of Personnel Management, for example, has put American lives at risk.” “Addressing the delicate balance of the national security interests of strong encryption, safety, privacy and civil liberties should be done by the American people in the people’s house, Congress, not through an unelected judge’s interpretation of an 18th century law. I urge the FBI Director to follow the advice of his own open letter, which calls on us to take a deep breath and talk to each other.” ###
02.25.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the court order in the case of Morgan Hill Concerned Parents Association v. California Department of Education. “The Plaintiffs’ lawsuit raises serious issues before the court regarding whether California is providing a quality education to special needs students. Without taking any sides in this case, I call on the parties and the court to find a way to assist the plaintiffs in receiving the data they need without disclosing personal information of every public school student in the state and exposing this sensitive data to potential theft or misuse.” “As a Member of Congress, a former California state legislator and a parent of two children in public school, I share the concerns of the plaintiffs, but I am also concerned about the privacy of millions of students. The recent court order could result in the release of sensitive personal information of 10 million students to plaintiffs, including potentially social security numbers, disciplinary records and medical records. The children of plaintiffs deserve a quality education, but every child in a Californian public school also has a fundamental right to privacy guaranteed by the California Constitution.” “In addition to privacy concerns, there are serious cybersecurity risk that occur by transferring large amounts of sensitive data and allowing people not trained in cybersecurity to have access to that data. The massive data breaches at the Federal Office of Personnel Management, Home Depot and Blue Cross show that sensitive data is under constant threat of infiltration and theft. Even with the yet to be defined security precautions set forth in the court order, privacy and security threats to this sensitive student data will multiply exponentially if transferred in an unredacted format to plaintiffs’ lawyers.” “The court order authorizes a potential opt-out notice to give parents the opportunity to object to their children’s data being included in the discovery request. The California Department of Education has posted links to this form in English and Spanish. However, California is home to not just families that speak English and Spanish, but families that speak many other different languages. In addition, parents that don’t have broadband or internet access will be far less likely to even know they can have their children opt-out. Moreover, school districts are not required to post the court’s notice. This potentially creates a situation where income levels and ethnicity will play a role in determining who opts out of the plaintiffs’ data request.” “I believe the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act did not envision the mass release of unredacted childrens’ data, such as social security numbers, disciplinary information and mental health records. The court, the parties and the public all have an interest in protecting the privacy of our students in this case. Whether it is using student ID numbers or other anonymizing techniques, there are other means to achieve the goals of the plaintiffs and those approaches should be thoroughly and carefully explored instead of moving forward in a way that puts sensitive student data at risk.” ###
02.25.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs unanimously passed two bills authored by Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles): H.R. 3484, the “Los Angeles Homeless Veterans Leasing Act of 2016” and H.R. 4334, the "Fiscal Year 2016 Department of Veterans Affairs Seismic Safety and Construction Authorization Act." H.R. 3484 grants the Secretary of Veterans Affairs leasing authority to construct permanent supportive housing on the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center campus and H.R. 4334 provides $35 million for critical seismic retrofits for buildings on the campus. On the favorable Committee markup of these important bills, Congressman Lieu issued the following statement: “I thank Chairman Jeff Miller, Ranking Member Corrine Brown, and the members of the House Committee of Veterans’ Affairs for unanimously supporting these important pieces of legislation today. They each address urgent needs for our local Veterans. Los Angeles County has the highest number of homeless Veterans in the nation. One immediate need is to build a proportionate number of permanent housing units for our homeless Veterans. H.R. 3484 will grant the VA the authority to begin implementing this key component of the West LA VA Master Plan.” "H.R. 4334 would authorize an additional $35 million for seismic retrofits for buildings on the West LA VA campus. This comes on top of the $35 million that Senator Dianne Feinstein and I helped to secure last year for the same purpose." “I want to acknowledge the leadership of VA Secretary McDonald and the tireless work of his team this past year in developing the Draft Master Plan which calls for 1,200 units of permanent supportive housing at the West LA VA. The VA’s plan—which needs this legislation—is our down payment in restoring this property to its intended use as an Old Soldiers’ Home." “I also want to thank the leadership of Senator Feinstein, who has authored companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. My expectation is that the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs will take up our legislation soon.” “And finally I want to recognize the contributions from vital local stakeholders, including Veterans, Veterans Service Organizations, the plaintiff partners, providers, and the community for their collaborative effort and unprecedented support this past year. Without it, the Draft Master Plan and progress on legislation would not have been possible.” "I am so pleased these bills have passed favorably. They will put us on the course of repaying the debt we owe our nation's Veterans." ###
02.24.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) introduced the “No Money Bail Act of 2016,” a bail reform bill that seeks to eliminate the use of money bail because no one should be held in jail solely because of the inability to pay bail. Joined by the bill’s original co-sponsors, Representatives Bonnie Watson Coleman, Brenda Lawrence, and Ruben Gallego, Congressman Lieu held a press conference introducing the “No Money Bail Act of 2016,” which has been endorsed by several leading advocacy groups. Congressman Ted Lieu “America’s broken criminal justice system goes against the core of our values. We cannot both be a nation that believes in freedom and equal justice under the law, yet at the same time, locks up thousands of people solely because they cannot afford bail. We cannot both be a nation that believes in the principle of innocent until proven guilty, yet incarcerate over 450,000 Americans who have not been convicted of a crime. Throughout the nation, those with money can buy their freedom while poor defendants stay behind bars awaiting trial. Further horrifying, many people decide to plead guilty purely to get out of jail because they cannot afford bail. America should not be a country where freedom is based on income. We are better than this.” Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman “The standard operating procedures for our criminal justice system today – from mass incarceration, to sentencing biases, to monetary bail ― have debilitating costs for our communities and our budgets. During my time in New Jersey’s legislature, and continuing here in Congress, I’ve fought for reforms that will ensure our justice system focuses on rehabilitation, maintains equal treatment, and considers alternatives to incarceration. I’m proud to join my colleagues in support of this bill, because it’s time for change. Sitting behind bars before you’ve been convicted of a crime -- not because you’re a danger to the community but simply because you can’t pay to get out-- is exactly the kind of outrageous status quo that has caused so much societal damage.” Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence “I’m proud to be an original co-sponsor of Congressman Lieu’s “NO MONEY BAIL ACT OF 2016,” as this legislation addresses one of the biggest roadblocks for economically disadvantaged Americans seeking justice in our states’ criminal court systems,” Rep. Lawrence said. “If you cannot afford bail, you are left to languish in jail until your trial. This misuse of resources has turned into a massive drain on valuable tax dollars as some individuals have been jailed for days, weeks, months, and even years before their cases are heard. People stuck in jail while awaiting trial face far greater pressure to accept plea bargains. With each day they are denied bail, they face a greater risk of losing their jobs, custody of their children, and other rights that, ironically, can be later used against them in court. If America is to continue to claim that our criminal justice system is the best in the world, we must address this fundamental inequity.” Congressman Ruben Gallego “It is unconscionable that hundreds of thousands of Americans who haven’t been convicted of a crime and don’t present a threat to public safety are stuck in jail awaiting their trials because they can’t afford bail. This system disproportionately affects people of color, the poor and the disabled, while allowing those with means to buy their freedom. A supervised release system would save money, reduce jail populations, and ensure that low-income individuals are able to maintain their employment and aren’t roped into bad plea deals. Bail should be based on risk, not resources.” Rashad Robinson, Executive Director of ColorOfChange.org “We are proud to support the No More Money Bail Act and believe this bill will address the financial and psychological harm money bail has on Black inmates and their families. Black people face 35% higher bail than white people for the same charges. As our hearts still mourn Kalief Browder and Sandra Bland, who both died because of their inability to afford bail, we call on Members of Congress to stand with Congressman Ted Lieu and co-sponsor this bill. We must stop being a nation that locks up our citizens based on their inability to pay monetary bail.” Rebecca Vallas, Managing Director of Poverty to Prosperity Program at the Center for American Progress "With 2.3 million Americans behind bars in prison or jail, and 1 in 3 Americans now living with some type of criminal record, our nation's failed experiment with mass incarceration and over-criminalization has reached a tipping point. As momentum continues to build in support of overhauling our criminal justice system, the lion's share of the bipartisan focus in Washington has rightly centered on the need for sentencing reform, through proposals like tackling overly harsh mandatory minimums. Meanwhile, we must not lose sight of an important but all too rarely discussed component of the mass incarceration crisis: the 12 million Americans who cycle in and out of local jails each year. Many spend weeks, months, and even years behind bars awaiting their day in court simply because they cannot afford to post bail. This is a national disgrace, and one that runs counter to our nation's core values. As Congress works together to build a fair and equitable justice system, failure to address this grave injustice risks missing a major piece of the puzzle. It's long past time that we as a nation stopped punishing people for the crime of being poor." Penny Stinson, President of the National Association of Pretrial Services Agencies “In its Standards for Pretrial Release, the National Association of Pretrial Service Agencies (NAPSA) reiterates the Association's opposition to the traditional money bail system. Money bail inherently discriminates against the poor and removes the decision about actual release from custody from the court to profit-motivated entities. Most troubling is the lack of relationship between a defendant's ability to post a monetary bond and their reliability to return to court or threat to community safety. In short, money is not a legitimate stakeholder and has no place in an evidence-based pretrial system.” Jo-Ann Wallace, the National Legal Aide & Defender Association “The use of money bail to deprive people of their liberty based on how much money they have has no place in a justice system that seeks to protect public safety and respect for human dignity. The No Money Bail Act makes a powerful statement about the critical place of bail reform within the broader criminal justice reform movement.” Cherise Fanno Burdeen, Executive Director of the Pretrial Justice Institute “The Pretrial Justice Institute enthusiastically supports this legislation because America needs overarching bail reform. All across this nation, too many nonviolent people are stuck in jail pretrial because they are too poor to post money bail." Southern Poverty Law Center "The Southern Poverty Law Center supports this important federal reform effort to reform our troubled cash bail bond system,” said Sam Brooke, Southern Poverty Law Center deputy legal director. "This current system, active in most states, ignores factors such as ties to the community and flight risk, and instead sets an arbitrary dollar amount people must pay to get out. People must literally buy their freedom, even though they have not been convicted of anything. When the poor cannot do this, they languish in jail for often months or years until their trials. The No More Money Bail Act of 2016 seeks to end this harmful practice and restore economic fairness to our justice system.” BACKGROUND INFORMATION More than 2.3 million people are incarcerated in America, of which 450,000 individuals have never been convicted of a crime and are often detained because they cannot afford to pay bail. America’s current money bail system rejects the principle of innocent until proven guilty. Many people decide to plead guilty purely to get out of jail because they cannot afford bail. Throughout the nation, those with money can buy their freedom while poor defendants stay behind bars awaiting trial. Congressman Lieu’s “No Money Bail Act” ends the money bail system because America should not be a country where freedom is based on income. BAIL ACT 2016 ENDORSERS The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), The Southern Poverty Law Center, Equal Justice Under Law, The Pretrial Justice Institute, The Drug Policy Alliance, LatinoJustice PRLDEF, The Sentencing Project, Color of Change, The National Legal Aide & Defender Association, National Association of Pretrial Services Agencies, ArchCity Defenders, The Southern Center for Human Rights, The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People FACT SHEET ON THE "NO MONEY BAIL ACT OF 2016" ###
02.23.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) sent a letter to FBI Director James Comey regarding the government's Motion to Compel that would require Apple Inc. to create software it does not have in order to weaken its smartphone encryption system. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
02.23.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONGRESSMAN TED W. LIEU INTRODUCES THE “NO MONEY BAIL ACT OF 2016”Representatives Bonnie Watson Coleman, Brenda Lawrence, Ruben Gallego to co-host press conference as legislation original co-sponsors WHO Congressman Ted Lieu (D|CA-33), Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D|NJ-12), Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (D|MI-14), Congressman Ruben Gallego (D|AZ-7) PERSONAL VICTIM STORY BYQiana Williams Shannon WiseREMARKS BY The Center for American Progress, the Drug Policy Alliance, the National Legal Aide & Defender Association, the Pretrial Justice Institute WHAT Press Conference Introducing The “No Money Bail Act of 2016” WHERE Cannon House Office Building, Room #210 & LIVE on Periscope with Parachute TV @ParachuteTV1WHEN Wednesday, February 24 | 9:15AM On February 24, 2016, Congressman Ted Lieu will host a public press conference introducing the “No Money Bail Act of 2016,” a bail reform bill that seeks to eliminate the use of money bail because no one should be held in jail solely because of inability to pay bail. BACKGROUND INFORMATION More than 2.3 million people are incarcerated in America, of which 450,000 individuals have never been convicted of a crime and are often detained because they cannot afford to pay bail. America’s current money bail system rejects the principle of innocent until proven guilty. Many people decide to plead guilty purely to get out of jail because they cannot afford bail. Throughout the nation, those with money can buy their freedom while poor defendants stay behind bars awaiting trial. Congressman Lieu’s “No Money Bail Act” ends the money bail system because America should not be a country where freedom is based on income. BAIL ACT 2016 ENDORSERS The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) | The Southern Poverty Law Center Equal Justice Under Law | The Pretrial Justice Institute The Drug Policy Alliance | LatinoJustice PRLDEF | The Sentencing Project Color of Change | The National Legal Aid & Defender Association National Association of Pretrial Services Agencies | ArchCity Defenders | The Southern Center for Human Rights ###
02.19.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES – On Sunday, February 21, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) will host the First Annual Bi-Partisan Multi-District Service Academy Day. The Service Academy Day will include representatives from the Admissions Offices of the US Air Force Academy, US Coast Guard Academy, US Military Academy, and US Naval Academy. Additionally, there will be representatives from the offices of Congress Members Brownley (CA-26), Schiff (CA-28), Cardenas (CA-29), Napolitano (CA-32), Bass (CA-37), Walters (CA-45), and Davis (CA-53). Congressman Lieu will also be hosting a panel of current and former Service Academy students. Also participating will be a panel of parents of current and former students at the Service Academies. WHO: Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-33), representatives from the Admissions Offices of the US Air Force Academy, US Coast Guard Academy, US Military Academy, and US Naval Academy, representatives from the offices of Congress Members Brownley (CA-26), Schiff (CA-28), Cardenas (CA-29), Napolitano (CA-32), Bass (CA-37), Walters (CA-45), and Davis (CA-53), students and parents WHAT: An opportunity for students, parents, and educators to hear speakers from the United States Air Force Academy, United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, parents, and current attendees of each of the Service Academies WHERE: Los Angeles Federal Building, 11000 Wilshire Blvd, Los Angeles WHEN: February 21, 2016 | 1:00pm- 4:00pm ###
02.19.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON - Representative Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) along with Representatives Peter Welch and Matt Cartwright wrote a letter to US Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch calling for an investigation of Shell Oil in regards to the company’s participation in intentionally hiding the truth about climate change and embarking on a massive campaign of denial and disinformation. This is a follow-up letter sent previously to the Attorney General regarding ExxonMobil. “More evidence has been brought to light by the Los Angeles Times and Inside Climate News that Shell Oil and others participated with Exxon’s pattern of deception. As Members of the Oversight Committee, we now ask that Shell also be investigated for intentionally hiding the truth about cilmate change and embarking on a massive campaign of denial and disinformation.” “The Department of Justice (DOJ) successfully prosecuted tobacco companies for colluding within their industry to deliberately mislead the public. We ask that DOJ similarily investigate Shell for participating with ExxonMobil’s sustained deception campaign on climate science.” “If these allegations are true, these actions could have set back the critical fight against climate change. We respectfully request the DOJ to investigate whether Shell’s actions around climate change violated federal law.” ###
02.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Los Angeles- Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the APPLE court order. Congressman Lieu is one of only four computer science majors in Congress. Congressman Lieu is also the author of the ENCRYPT ACT of 2016. "The terrorist attack in San Bernardino was horrific and the tragic loss of innocent lives demands a strong response. I have several deep concerns, however, about the unprecedented court order that forces Apple to create software it does not have in order to provide a “back door” way to weaken its smartphone encryption system. This FBI court order, by compelling a private sector company to write new software, is essentially making that company an arm of law-enforcement. Private sector companies are not—and should not be—an arm of government or law enforcement. This court order also begs the question: Where does this kind of coercion stop? Can the government force Facebook to create software that provides analytic data on who is likely to be a criminal? Can the government force Google to provide the names of all people who searched for the term ISIL? Can the government force Amazon to write software that identifies who might be suspicious based on the books they ordered? Forcing Apple to weaken its encryption system in this one case means the government can force Apple—or any other private sector company—to weaken encryption systems in all future cases. This precedent-setting action will both weaken the privacy of Americans and hurt American businesses. And how can the FBI ensure the software that it is forcing Apple to create won’t fall into the wrong hands? Given the number of cyberbreaches in the federal government—including at the Department of Justice—the FBI cannot guarantee this back door software will not end up in the hands of hackers or other criminals. The San Bernardino massacre was tragic but weakening our cyber security is not the answer – terrorism succeeds when it gets us to give up our liberties and change our way of life. We can take common sense security measures without trampling on privacy rights." ###
02.11.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, the House Judiciary Committee passed H.R. 759, the “Recidivism Risk Reduction Act” by a voice vote. The Judiciary Committee included Congressman Ted Lieu’s (D | Los Angeles County) request for arts language, and Section 5 of the bill now lists “art organizations” as groups the Bureau of Prisons must enter into partnerships with to reduce recidivism. On passage of this vital arts in prison provision, Mr. Lieu issued the following statement: “I thank Congressman Jason Chaffetz and the other members of the House Judiciary Committee for including arts language into H.R. 759, the Recidivism Risk Reduction Act. Arts education in prisons has a history of proven results in improved behavior among inmates, fewer disciplinary actions, cost savings, and reduced recidivism. “The Actors’ Gang, run by Oscar winning actor Tim Robbins, has had huge success in California in reviving the California’s Arts-in-Corrections (AIC) program, which brings visual, performing, literary, media, and fine craft disciplines to California correctional institutions. The Actors’ Gang’s Prison Project, active in six of California’s state prisons, has seen real change in the inmates they have worked with. Their goals include reducing recidivism and in-prison violence and also increasing self-esteem and developing better emotional and social skills, and the prison captains have seen remarkable changes in the emotional and social skills of inmates – setting them up for better success in society. “I am hopeful with the inclusion of arts language in H.R. 759, more arts programs similar to the Actors’ Gang’s Prison Project will be implemented on the federal level.” PRAISE FOR CONGRESSMAN LIEU’S ARTS IN PRISON WORK “The Actors' Gang is proud to partner with our amazing Congressman Ted Lieu in this push to get the Arts included in this important piece of legislation. We look forward to this Bill being the start of including the Arts in all aspects of Education and Rehabilitation, areas that are often lacking access to this essential part of Criminal Justice Reform that is evidence-based, fiscally responsible and extremely effective as a tool to increase public safety and change the culture of incarceration in this country. We look forward to continuing the effort with Congressman Lieu to raise public awareness about what the Arts can do in this space and make sure innovative programming ideas have a seat at the table.” -Sabra Williams, Director of Outreach and The Prison Project, The Actors' Gang. "Arts programs in prisons and creative arts therapies are proven to help people’s lives. I congratulate Rep. Ted Lieu for his leadership work to bring the success of his work in California state prisons as a model for the rest of country in tapping the transformative power of the arts.” -Robert L. Lynch, President and CEO of Americans for the Arts. ###
02.10.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington – Today, Congressmembers Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), and Mike Bishop (R-MI) introduced H.R. 4528, the Ensuring National Constitutional Rights for Your Private Telecommunications (ENCRYPT) Act of 2016. The legislation would preempt state and local government encryption laws to ensure a uniform, national policy for the interstate issue of encryption technology. Recently, state legislators in California and New York have introduced bills to effectively ban encryption on any smartphone sold in their respective states. “A patchwork of 50 different encryption standards is a recipe for disaster that would create new security vulnerabilities, threaten individual privacy and undermine the competitiveness of American innovators,” Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) said. “It is bad for law enforcement, bad for technology users, and bad for American technology companies. National issues require national responses. The ENCRYPT Act makes sure that this conversation happens in a place that does not disrupt interstate commerce.” “Different rules in different states create a myriad of issues and will actually make it more difficult for law enforcement officials. We need a unified approach to this issue that both protects security and privacy while enabling law enforcement to keep us safe,” Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-TX) said. “The California and New York proposals do not solve the problem. We need to keep free market and trade between the several states robust, not promote a false sense of security and require things like backdoors and golden keys that can be exploited by hackers.” “Requiring companies to weaken devices with ‘backdoors’ means we open up innocent Americans to the bad actors who would love easier access to our citizens’ personal information,” Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-WA) said. “Given this reality, a patchwork of state laws on encryption will not make us safer. Rather, they open us up to attacks, and weaken our national security, not strengthen it.” “The safety of our nation is the number one priority for this Congress,” Congressman Mike Bishop (R-MI) said. “A major part of that effort involves protecting our information from cyber threats, whether it deals with our nation’s security, commerce or personal data. The ENCRPYT Act is a critical first step in adopting a national approach – instead of the patchwork of encryption standards that our tech industry and law enforcement face today.” BILL ENDORSEMENTS ACT | The App Association, Niskanen Center, Information Technology Industry Council, Internet Association, Internet Infrastructure Coalition (i2C), App Developers Alliance PRAISE FOR THE ENCRYPT ACT ACT | The App Association Executive Director Morgan Reed: “ACT | The App Association is proud to support the ENCRYPT Act, and applauds Representatives Lieu, Farenthold, Bishop, and DelBene for providing valuable leadership on data security. Encryption is an integral part of the U.S. economy. It provides security for much of the nation’s commerce, both online and at physical locations. It ensures that our most sensitive data stays private. Encryption protects patient health information, financial data, and every American who shops online. In the $120 billion app economy, encryption provides the transaction security that allows companies to sell globally. App companies flourish in every state of the country because they can market their software to a global audience wherever there is an internet connection. It is clear to see that encryption plays a critical role in interstate commerce. Regulation addressing this technology must come from the federal government. Any attempts by states to regulate independently in this space would create a patchwork of conflicting laws. This would be unmanageable and interfere with interstate commerce." Jake Ward, President and CEO of the Application Developers Alliance: "We applaud Reps Lieu, Farenthold, DelBene, and Bishop for introducing the ENCRPYT Act, and look forward to working with the sponsors to see the bill signed into law. The Internet is truly borderless. Efforts by states to force developers to grant special access to even the most well-intentioned authority undermines what the Internet stands for, data security, privacy, and consumer trust." Internet Association President and CEO Michael Beckerman: "The Internet industry commends Rep. Ted Lieu, Rep. Blake Farenthold, Rep. Suzan DelBene, and Rep. Mike Bishop on their introduction of the ENCRYPT Act. The ENCRYPT Act ensures that users will continue to be protected by strong encryption regardless of where they live. Weakening encryption by requiring companies to engineer vulnerabilities into their services makes us all less safe and less secure. Encryption protects billions of global Internet users from countless daily threats to the financial system, sensitive infrastructure (like our electric grid), and from repressive governments looking to stifle speech and democracy. The Internet industry has great respect for the role law enforcement plays in our national security, but without strong encryption, we are all less safe. The Internet Association supports the ENCRYPT Act and looks forward to working with Reps. Lieu, Farenthold, DelBene, and Bishop as they continue their work on this important issue." THE FULL TEXT OF H.R. 4528, THE ENCRYPT 2016 ACT, CAN BE FOUND HERE. ###
02.10.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Representatives Jackie Speier (D-CA) and Ted Lieu (D-CA) sent a letter to Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) expressing their concern over the continued practice of sexual orientation change efforts, commonly referred to as “conversion therapy.” In the letter, the lawmakers explained how the widely discredited practice harms the healthy development of youth, and they urged the FTC to use their authority under the Federal Trade Commission Act to take decisive action to stop the unfair, deceptive, and fraudulent practice. “We write to you to express our deep concern with the continued practice of sexual orientation change efforts (SOCE), commonly referred to as ‘conversion therapy.’ This practice falsely promises to change a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity,” the Members of Congress wrote in the letter. “We urge the Federal Trade Commission to take all actions possible to stop the unfair, deceptive, and fraudulent practice of conversion therapy under the authority provided to your agency in the Federal Trade Commission Act.” California, New Jersey, Oregon, and the District of Columbia prohibit doctors and therapists from using conversion therapy on children. State legislation to ban conversion therapy has been introduced in more than a dozen other states, including Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Iowa, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Texas, Vermont, Washington, and West Virginia. Full text of the letter: Chairwoman Edith Ramirez Federal Trade Commission 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest, Room 404 Washington, DC 20580 Dear Chairwoman Ramirez: We write to you to express our deep concern with the continued practice of sexual orientation change efforts (SOCE), commonly referred to as “conversion therapy.” This practice falsely promises to change a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity. We urge the Federal Trade Commission to take all actions possible to stop the unfair, deceptive, and fraudulent practice of conversion therapy under the authority provided to your agency in the Federal Trade Commission Act. Conversion therapy, also known as “reparative” or “sexual orientation” therapy, is a practice that has been widely discredited by nearly all major American medical, psychiatric, psychological, professional counseling, educational, and social work professional organizations. In 2009, the nation’s largest scientific and professional organization representing psychology, the American Psychological Association, conducted a systematic review of the evidence on SOCE. The report concluded that “efforts to change sexual orientation are unlikely to be successful and involve some risk of harm, contrary to the claims of SOCE practitioners and advocates.” Perhaps most concerning are the effects of this harmful therapy on children and youth. Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) children and youth are at increased risk of suicide, substance use disorder, and engaging in other high risk behaviors compared to their peers. Therapeutic support can be useful for children and youth who are LGBT or questioning their sexual orientation or gender identity, resulting in more confidence and acceptance, which are important elements of healthy child development. However, conversion therapy provokes guilt, anxiety, and societal rejection that negatively impacts healthy development of children and youth, contrary to the claims of SOCE practitioners. We urge the Federal Trade Commission to take decisive action to stop the unfair, deceptive, and fraudulent practice of “conversion therapy” under the authority provided to your agency in the Federal Trade Commission Act. We thank you for your attention to this pressing matter. ###
02.09.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the White House sent President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget request to Congress. Mr. Lieu applauds the 44th President for putting forward a budget that builds the foundation for a strong American future – investing in innovation for the 21st century, advancing a world-class education system, and empowering hard-working families. “In the face of an era of unprecedented economic and technological change, President Obama’s stewardship of the economy has created 14 million jobs, slashed the unemployment rate to under 5%, guaranteed health security for nearly 18 million Americans and has sizably cut our nation’s deficits. “In the face of this progress, the President, my fellow Democrats and I know there is more work to be done to expand opportunity for every American and to secure our nation’s economic leadership globally. As a member of the Budget Committee, I commend President Obama’s 2017 fiscal plan for taking innovative steps to invest in and empower hardworking families in California’s 33rd District and in districts from sea to shining sea. “The President’s new K-12 computer science initiative and college affordability programs will ensure that today’s students possess the skills and knowledge necessary to be tomorrow’s leaders in their communities, their states and on the world stage. “The President’s plan to double funding for homegrown clean energy research and development means a secure energy future for America and a much-needed focus on protecting our children and our environment from the terrible impacts of climate change. The President’s plan to forge an economy that works for everyone means bold, critical investments in infrastructure and innovation. “The President’s focus on American security – specifically cybersecurity – is particularly welcome. $19 billion for cybersecurity, a modernization of federal information technology and a Federal Chief Information Security Officer means our nation’s ability to defend against cyberattacks by foreign governments and thieves will be greatly enhanced. “The President’s focus on security also means taking care of those brave men and women who have safeguarded our freedom. We cannot solve Veteran homelessness in America without solving it in Los Angeles County. I applaud the President’s pledge of $11 billion over the next 10 years to address both family and Veteran homelessness. “The President’s new budget proposal looks to the future, embraces a decidedly Californian spirit of innovation and works to ensure that no American family is left behind.” ###
02.09.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONGRESSMAN LIEU & “HOMELAND” EMMY-WINNING PRODUCER GIDEON RAFF OP-ED ON LIVE ANIMAL TRAINING Online today at USA TODAY, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Raff urge the U.S. Department of Defense to modernize its training and use human simulators instead of maiming animals when training medics. “’ As military veterans, we both understand the critical role medics play on the battlefield. However, the education that these medics receive today is outdated, inhumane and in serious need of modernization.” “The existence of more lifelike and less costly simulators clearly suggests the need and ability to transition away from live tissue training. The Department of Defense has taken some steps to strengthen protections for animals. This is welcome progress, but more needs to be done.'" “We believe it is time that the Pentagon fully modernizes military medical training to improve troop preparedness, reduce animal suffering and conserve resources needed to keep our service members and country safe.” *** The Full Text of the USA TODAY piece can be found HERE. ***
01.30.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s announcement of his “Computer Science For All Initiative.” Congressman Lieu is only one of four computer science majors in Congress and the only Democratic Member with a CS degree. Mr. Lieu holds a CS degree from Stanford University. “As a computer science major and a member of the House Budget Committee, I enthusiastically support President Obama's Computer Science For All Initiative, which includes $4 billion in funding for states. Our economy is undergoing rapid change. We can try to resist the tidal wave of technology that permeates all of our lives, or we can be on the right side of history and empower our children to thrive in the 21st century. I applaud President Obama's announcement today of new educational initiatives to inspire students, teachers and parents so that an entire generation of young American minds have the computer science skills needed to flourish into leaders in their communities, their nation and on the world stage.” ###
01.28.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after joining VA Secretary Bob McDonald at the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center to unveil the Draft Master Plan for the campus. This historic framework is a significant milestone in returning the West L.A. VA to a thriving and vibrant Veteran community. “I am proud to stand with Secretary McDonald today as the unveiling of the Draft Master Plan signals the beginning of a new era of action on behalf of Los Angeles County’s Veteran heroes. The centerpiece of the plan calls for 1,200 units of Permanent Supportive Housing throughout the property. Solving Veterans homelessness in America means solving it in Los Angeles. Supportive housing at the West L.A. VA is a crucial step forward in doing just that.” “However, VA does not currently have the proper leasing authority to begin this housing construction. That’s why I have introduced legislation that will grant authority to the Secretary to construct Permanent Supportive Housing at the West L.A. VA. The 1888 Deed calls for this land to be permanently maintained as an Old Soldiers' Home; without this authority there can be no home.” “I am proud to work with Senator Dianne Feinstein, who has introduced identical legislation in the Senate. We are confident that we have the support of Veterans, the community, and our colleagues in Congress to have this important legislation signed into law." Additional Background -- To create momentum in the mission to build Supportive Housing at the West L.A. VA, Congressman Lieu established an Elected Officials Council on Veterans earlier this year. The Council will serve to support passage of his Veteran housing legislation, monitor implementation of the Draft Master Plan and continue the unprecedented collaboration started by Secretary McDonald a year ago. -- This past October, President Barack Obama signed a bill into law authorizing $35 million dollars for seismic retrofit projects at the West L.A. VA. Congressman Lieu, Senators Boxer and Feinstein collaborated on this legislation in Congress. -- This month, Congressman Lieu introduced the Fiscal Year 2016 Department of Veterans Affairs Seismic Safety and Construction Authorization Act to authorize additional funds for critical seismic safety and construction projects at VA facilities throughout California, including another $35 million for the West Los Angeles VA. ***
01.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 26, 2015 CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 MEDIA ADVISORY: CONGRESSMAN LIEU TO JOIN VA SECRETARY BOB MCDONALD IN THE UNVEILING OF THE MASTER PLAN FOR THE VA WEST LOS ANGELES MEDICAL CENTER Los Angeles, CA – On Thursday, January 28, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) will join VA Secretary Bob McDonald as the Secretary unveils the Draft Master Plan for the VA West Los Angeles Medical Center. The Master Plan represents a significant milestone in returning the campus to a Veteran-centric and vibrant community. It includes robust enhancements of services, including a Family Well-Being Center, Mental Health and Addiction Services and Housing First units. Congressman Lieu has introduced corresponding legislation that would allow the Secretary of the VA to enter into leases to construct Permanent Supportive Housing on the property. The plan is the result of an unprecedented collaboration among Veterans, Veterans Service Organizations, the community, plaintiff partners, VA and elected officials. It signals the beginning of an era of commitment to our nation’s heroes in Los Angeles County. At the press event, Secretary McDonald will also share an update on VA’s progress in addressing homelessness among Veterans in Los Angeles County. The event will be held at 9:30 am in the Building 209 Courtyard on the VA West Los Angeles Medical Center site. Parking is available at Lot #38 and the event is open to the public. ###
01.22.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued a statement following the Administration’s announcement of changes to modernize and strengthen how the federal government conducts background investigations of its federal employees and contractors and secures the collected data. The changes come after a 90-day review by the interagency Performance Accountability Council (PAC). "I am encouraged by today’s announcement that the Administration will be implementing much-needed changes to the way our government protects what has been described as the “crown jewels” of intelligence: the background investigations of Americans with security clearances. Since the OPM data breach became public last year, Congressman Steve Russell and I have fought to change the way our government protects this data. Our letter last October specifically called on the Administration to move the background investigation mission to a government entity with a national security focus, and this new proposal appears to do just that. I look forward to reviewing the proposal in greater detail as the plan is developed, including the specific IT architecture designed by the Department of Defense. I will also continue working with my colleagues on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on a likely hearing to examine the Administration’s proposal in greater detail." ###
01.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement on the anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission: “Today is the sixth-year anniversary of the Supreme Court’s disastrous Citizens United decision, which allowed corporations to make unlimited independent expenditures on political activities. Since the decision, we have seen the growing influence of Super PACs that do not truly represent the will of the American people, but give an outsized voice to the wealthiest individuals. Without limits on campaign contributions, politicians spend too much time catering to special interests, and not enough time connecting with everyday Americans. Our founders envisioned a government of the people, by the people, and for the people; but, that can only occur if every person is able to fairly express their views. “Throughout my career I have advocated campaign finance reform. When I was in the California State Legislature, a bill that I authored and was then passed called for a ballot advisory measure allowing Californians to express their views on the Citizens United decision. This week the California Legislature filed a petition requesting that the California Supreme Court place the advisory measure on the November 2016 ballot—the Court must allow voters to express their views this November. Furthermore, I believe that Congress must also pass a constitutional amendment overturning Citizens United so that all Americans’ voices can be heard.” ***
01.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Ted W. Lieu (CA-33) and Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) urged California Attorney General Kamala Harris to actively investigate allegations that ExxonMobil deliberately misled the public regarding the role of fossil fuels in influencing climate change. According to recent news reports, including today’s New York Times, AG Harris is reviewing an investigation. In a letter to Harris, DeSaulnier and Lieu wrote, “It is our understanding that a number of California laws provide your office with robust authorities to pursue violations of our state’s corporate securities and commodities laws. While it remains to be determined whether ExxonMobil’s actions violated state law, your office is in a unique position to request the information necessary to make these determinations. We strongly encourage you to leverage your authorities as California’s Attorney General to investigate whether ExxonMobil violated state law.” The Representatives continued, “As the Attorney General for the eighth largest economy in the world, we are hopeful that your actions will prompt other state attorneys general and regulators to investigate these troubling allegations. Please be assured that we will also continue to press this issue at the federal level, including a request to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to investigate these issues.” Representatives Lieu and DeSaulnier’s official request to Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Jason Chaffetz to investigate what ExxonMobil knew about global warming and what it told investors can be found here. Click here for a full copy of the letter to Attorney General Harris. ###
01.20.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the California State Legislature filed a petition requesting the California Supreme Court order the Citizens United advisory measure to appear on the November 2016 ballot. The petition also includes a declaration from Congressman Lieu – the original author of the law creating the advisory measure – detailing his original intentions for the law and urging the court to allow voters to express their opinions this November. “I am very pleased to join the California State Legislature in filing this petition for rehearing. Massive money in politics gives too much influence to a select few and drowns out the voices of everyday Americans. The US Supreme Court’s disastrous decision in Citizens United has only proven to exacerbate this inequality and worsen money’s corruptive impact on our democracy. All California voters must be able to formally express their opinions of Citizens United. The California Supreme Court must act now to order the advisory question to appear on the November 2016 ballot so that the greatest number of voters’ voices can be heard. Moreover, Congress must also pass a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United.” ###
01.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in response to Olympus’ decision to recall its medical scopes. “Olympus' belated decision to recall and replace its duodenoscopes confirms what lawmakers and regulators have been highlighting: design defects in these scopes were causing deadly infections in patients. Had Olympus initiated this recall sooner rather than blaming hospitals, numerous patients would not have been infected with antibiotic resistant superbugs, and less people would have died or been seriously injured.” “Olympus’ decision needs to be monitored to determine its effectiveness since previous claims of effectiveness by Olympus have proven not to work. I also urge Pentax and Fuji, the other major duodenoscope manufacturers, to fix their design problems and recall their duodenoscopes.” ###
01.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MEDIA ADVISORY:PRESS CONFERENCE WITH REP. TED LIEU & U.S. CHEMICAL SAFETY BOARD CHAIR VANESSA SUTHERLANDTomorrow, Lieu and CSB Chair Sutherland will meet with the press before start of public meeting at Torrance City Hall to discuss CSB's current findings regarding ExxonMobil Refinery Investigation WHO: Chairperson Vanessa Sutherland, Congressman Ted Lieu, Torrance Mayor Patrick J. Furey and community activists WHAT: Q&A with members of the press regarding ongoing investigation into safety violations at ExxonMobil’s Torrance refinery WHEN: 4:15pm | Wednesday - January 13, 2016 WHERE: Receiving Area in front of Torrance City Council Chambers Torrance City Hall 3031 Torrance Blvd. Torrance, CA 90503 More on Public Meeting Tomorrow, January 13th, the Public Meeting will commence at 5pm at the Torrance City Hall Chamber. The meeting will feature Congressman Lieu, Chair Sutherland, CSB investigators and representatives from the Torrance Refinery Action Alliance, California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal/OSHA), California Environmental Protection Agency, Western States Petroleum Association, United Steelworkers (USW), and Blue Green Alliance. The public meeting will allow citizens to learn about the investigation into ExxonMobil’s Torrance refinery, ask questions and discuss what can be done to enhance the safety of our community. Background on ExxonMobil Refinery Investigation ExxonMobil has been under investigation since an explosion on February 18, 2015 tore through the facility and launched a heavy piece of equipment within feet of the highly-toxic modified hydrofluoric acid (HF) tank, as well as spreading ash throughout the community. Congressman Lieu and Congresswoman Waters formally requested a CSB investigation following the incident. Six months later, Cal/OSHA fined ExxonMobil $566,600 with 19 separate citations, including 18 classified as “serious” and six characterized as, “willful because Cal/OSHA found that Exxon did not take action to eliminate known hazardous conditions at the refinery and intentionally failed to comply with state safety standards.” Since the February explosion, several additional incidents have occurred at the Torrance refinery. On September 6, the Torrance Fire Department reported a “significant incident” when a leak occurred of highly-toxic modified HF. On October 23, a large steam cloud appeared above the refinery, the result of a leak that occurred in a pressurized eight-inch pipeline. These incidents have underscored the dangers posed to the community by toxic chemicals, which ExxonMobil’s worst-case scenario estimates could imperil the lives of a quarter million people in Southern California. ###
01.08.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONGRESSMAN LIEU NAMED AN INTERNET FREEDOM CHAMPION OF 2015 In a list of only 17 global leaders, The DailyDot.Com lauds Congressman Lieu for his efforts to protect Americans’ privacy and constitutional rights during his first year in Congress. “I believe in the Constitution of the United States, and the Fourth Amendment is pretty clear,” Lieu said. “It basically says that government shall not engage in unreasonable searches and seizures unless the government has a specific warrant for you.” “Congressman Lieu, ‘one of four members of Congress with a degree in computer science, knows what cryptographers have said since the beginning: 'It is simply not possible to design an encryption system for only the so-called good guys to have a backdoor access key.'" “Lieu has stressed this more than any sitting member of the House, and made headlines when he furiously told [FBI Director] Comey during a hearing to ‘just follow the damn Constitution.’ Because for him, it’s not just a technical issue—it’s a moral one.” *** The Full Text of the Daily Dot piece can be found HERE. ***
01.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of President Obama’s announcement of new steps to prevent gun violence. “Yesterday I received a briefing from the US Attorney General on all the elements of President Obama’s executive actions on gun safety. I have reviewed those elements and I support President Obama’s actions. It is a national disgrace that nothing has been done to address gun violence on the federal level since the devastating shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School over 3 years ago. Since that tragic day, another 142 school shootings have taken place across our nation. President Obama’s actions are an important first step, but Congress must step up and do its part as well. “Gun violence kills 88 Americans each day and devastates the lives of hundreds of others. There is no reason that we should accept this as normal. As a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, I understand the complexity and magnitude of this problem. And while I know that there is not a single solution to prevent all gun violence, that is not an excuse to delay enacting reasonable measures to address gun violence. “I am a proud cosponsor of legislation to improve background checks, get rid of the 3 day background check loophole, and require the Surgeon General to submit to Congress an annual report on the effects of gun violence on public health. These are common sense measure that the overwhelming majority of Americans support. It is long past time to take action to address the scourge of gun violence in America.” ###
01.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ADVISORY: U.S. CHEMICAL SAFETY BOARD TO HOST TORRANCE PUBLIC MEETING WITH CONGRESSMAN TED LIEU AND CONGRESSWOMAN MAXINE WATERS TO PRESENT ON EXXONMOBIL REFINERY INVESTIGATION WHO:U.S. Chemical Safety Board, Congressman Ted Lieu, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Torrance Refinery Action Alliance, California Occupational Safety and Health Administration, California Environmental Protection Agency, Western States Petroleum Association, United Steelworkers, and Blue Green Alliance.WHAT:Public Meeting on ExxonMobil Refinery InvestigationWHERE: Torrance City Hall ChambersWHEN: January 13, 2016 | 5:00pm On January 13, 2016, the U.S. Chemical Safety Board (CSB) will host a public meeting at the Torrance City Hall with Congressman Ted Lieu and Congresswoman Maxine Waters to discuss the preliminary findings of the CSB investigation into the safety violations at ExxonMobil’s Torrance refinery. The meeting will feature CSB investigators and representatives from the Torrance Refinery Action Alliance, California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal/OSHA), California Environmental Protection Agency, Western States Petroleum Association, United Steelworkers (USW), and Blue Green Alliance. Please join the CSB, Congressman Lieu and Congresswoman Waters to learn about the investigation, answer questions, and discuss what can be done to enhance the safety of our community. Background on ExxonMobil Refinery Investigation ExxonMobil has been under investigation since an explosion on February 18, 2015, tore through the facility and launched a major component within feet of the highly-toxic modified hydrofluoric acid (HF) tank and spread ash throughout the community. Congressman Lieu and Congresswoman Waters formally requested a CSB investigation following the incident. Six months later, Cal/OSHA fined ExxonMobil $566,600 with 19 separate citations, including 18 classified as “serious” and six characterized as, “willful because Cal/OSHA found that Exxon did not take action to eliminate known hazardous conditions at the refinery and intentionally failed to comply with state safety standards.” Since the February explosion, several additional incidents have occurred at the Torrance refinery. On September 6, the Torrance Fire Department reported a “significant incident” when a leak occurred of highly-toxic modified HF. On October 23, a large steam cloud appeared above the refinery, the result of a leak that occurred in a pressurized eight-inch pipeline. These incidents have underscored the dangers posed to the community by toxic chemicals, which ExxonMobil’s worst-case scenario estimates could imperil the lives of a quarter million people. ###
01.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington—Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) introduced the Fiscal Year 2016 Department of Veterans Affairs Seismic Safety and Construction Authorization Act to authorize funds for critical seismic safety and construction projects at VA facilities throughout California, including $35 million for the West Los Angeles VA. A next step in ongoing funding for West LA VA Last year joint legislation by Congressman Lieu and Senator Dianne Feinstein secured $35 million for seismic retrofits and renovations for Building 205 at the West LA VA campus. This year Congressman Lieu and Senator Feinstein are seeking an additional $35 million for further seismic retrofits and renovations on the campus. The 2016 Veterans Affairs Seismic Safety and Construction Authorization Act would provide $563 million for California projects, including $35 million for Building 208 at the West LA VA campus. Addressing a unique need for VA in California VA seismic safety and construction funds are especially crucial for California, where the U.S. Geological Survey estimates a magnitude 6.7 or greater earthquake strikes every 6.3 years, on average. It also reports that California’s risk of being struck by a magnitude 8.0 or greater earthquake has increased by nearly 50 percent since the agency completed its last estimate in 2008. Congressman Lieu’s statement following introduction of his legislation “One of our greatest responsibilities in Congress is to provide for those who have served our country. Placing our Veterans and their health care providers in buildings not fit to withstand an earthquake does not meet the American standard. I am proud to have secured $35 million for West LA VA last year and this bill would authorize an additional $35 million. Thank you to Senators Feinstein and Boxer for their leadership on this important issue. I look forward to working with all of my colleagues in the House and Senate to quickly pass this bill to bolster the safety of our Veterans and VA staff.” Full Text of Veterans Affairs Seismic Safety and Construction Authorization Act ###
01.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on plans by the Westboro Baptist Church to protest at Redondo Union High School on Monday. “I am disappointed by Westboro Baptist Church’s decision to protest at Redondo Union High School next week. Their message of intolerance and hatred is unwelcome in our community. All individuals, regardless of their sexual orientation, must be treated equally and with the utmost dignity. “The people of California have had experience dealing with Westboro Baptist Church's hateful messages, and have rejected them. As a Member of the California legislature, I authored and the legislature overwhelming passed my law to provide significant distance between funeral protestors--such as Westboro Baptist Church members--and the funeral ceremony. “Westboro Baptist Church's actions next week provide another opportunity for raising awareness about dignity. By creating a Gay-Straight Alliance and standing up to the Westboro protesters, Redondo’s students have demonstrated their commitment to equality and love. It is inspiring to see our next generation of leaders speak out against hatred and discrimination. I could not be prouder to represent these amazing kids. America is strongest when every person is comfortable being themselves and free to love whomever they choose. I stand in solidarity with Redondo’s students and the LGBT community. Love will always be stronger than hate." ###
01.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) took to the House Floor to make the following statement in light of House consideration of the Senate-passed GOP Reconciliation Bill, which attacks women’s health care and takes health coverage away from millions of Americans. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill would result in 22 million Americans losing their health coverage after 2017. Passage of the bill by the House today will send the bill to the President’s desk. The President has already promised to veto the legislation. “Today the House Republican Caucus unveiled their ‘new’ ideas for America: a 62nd repeal of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and 11th attack on women’s healthcare, both of which are guaranteed to be vetoed by President Obama. One definition of insanity is repeating the same thing over and over again expecting a different result. Repeal of the ACA would result in 22 million Americans losing their health insurance, including approximately 3.5 million Californians. Republicans have no plan to cover the millions of Americans they would plunge into health care crisis through an actual repeal. Millions more will also lose health care access if Planned Parenthood gets defunded. Hardworking American families deserve a sane, sensible agenda. If you want hyper-partisan bills that waste time, squander taxpayer resources and are destined to go nowhere, look at the GOP Agenda. If you want ideas that will move our nation forward—such as investing in education, reducing carbon pollution and creating jobs—take a look at the Democratic Agenda. At least we’re not insane.” ###
01.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) announced that eight arts organizations from Los Angeles and Santa Monica received grants from the National Endowment for the Arts totaling $280,000. The grants will be used to fund a variety of arts exhibitions, performances and broadcasts that benefit the community. The Awardees Center for the Art of Performance at UCLA -T o support the development and presentation of "Memory Rings." The multidisciplinary work from theater company Phantom Limb will be presented at the Center for the Art of Performance at UCLA. Initially inspired by the "Methuselah Tree," a California bristlecone pine estimated to be more than 4,800 years old, the work will explore the evolving relationship between people and the environment from the perspective of the world's oldest living tree. "Memory Rings" will feature dance, puppetry, mask, music, sculptural set design, and projections. The center will present free educational and engagement activities, including lectures, discussions, workshops/master classes, interactive walking tours, and public art-making activities. UCLA Fowler Museum - To support the exhibition, "African-Print Fashion Now! A Story of Taste Globalization, and Style." The Fowler Museum will mount the exhibition, which will explore the diverse and dynamic worlds of African-print fashion, from popular local styles to the international runway. The exhibition will reveal the creative vitality and global expansiveness of African fashion documenting the history of African-print fashion from its origins in the 19th century to its contemporary iterations, using a combination of fashion ensembles, textiles, videos, archival images, and studio photography. The project will include a component to be guest curated by African fashion experts Suzanne Gott, Kristyne Loughran, and Leslie Rabine. To accompany the exhibition, the Fowler will publish a scholarly, multi-author volume and develop public programming for people of all ages. Mount Saint Mary’s University Da Camera Society - To support the presentation of the Chamber Music in Historic Sites project by the Da Camera Society. The concerts and related engagement activities - with artists such as pianist Donal Fox and his jazz trio, violinist Mark O'Connor, Da Camera Players, Opus One, Sixth Floor Trio, and SYBARITE5 - will match musical programming from various cultures and periods with sites of architectural and historical significance in the Los Angeles area. The project will include community workshops, master classes, and mini-residencies. Santa Monica Museum of Art - To support a performance project celebrating the legacy of American contralto Marian Anderson. The orchestra's annual MLK day concert, which honors the life and legacy of MLK and features the music of African-American artists, will be a salute to Americans historic 1939 concert preformed on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in DC. The orchestra will be joined by guest artist soprano Caroline McKenzie and will be directed by Music Director Guido Lamell. the concert program will include works such as Samuel Francis Smith's "America (My Country 'Tis of Thee), Gaetano Donizatti's aria "O Mio Fernando", Franz Schubert's "Ave Maria" and the spirituals "Gospel Train" "Trampin'" and "My Soul is Anchored in the Lord" KCRW Foundation - To support the exhibition "Norm Laich: This Brush for Hire," and an accompanying catalogue. A survey of specific artworks that Laich executed as an assistant to such famed artists as Ed Ruscha, Michael Asher, Lawrence Weiner, Mike Kelley, and Jenny Holzer, the exhibition will explore the relationship between hired artists' assistants and the artworks they help create. Issues around authorship, execution, creativity, and labor will be central to public programming such as lectures, and community workshops conducted by Laich with artists with whom he collaborated such as Barbara Kruger, Alexis Smith, Paul McCarthy, Paul Schimmel, and Cesar Garcia. 18th Street Arts Complex - To support artist residencies and related activities. In addition, a cultural asset map will be created to identify community resources and document arts-friendly partners, such as schools, businesses, and individuals. Resident artists residing at the faculty will be provided living stipends. Heidi Duckler Dance Theater (Collage Dance Theater) - To support the creation and presentation of "Fish Eyes" by Artistic Director Heidi Duckler. The project will encompass citywide, site-specific performances that will use a massive fish-like structure (The Fish), as a mechanism to raise issues of ecology and water preservation in Los Angeles and nationally. Architect Alex Ward will build the 20-foot steel Fish, which will serve as the staging ground for the performances and engagement activities. Jazz Bakery Performance Space - To support concerts, conversations, a symposium, and workshops as part of the 2016 Jazz Masters series. NEA Jazz Masters Carla Bley, Paquito D'Rivera, and Bill Holman will perform concerts at venues in Culver City, Los Angeles, and Santa Monica, California. They also will participate in community and educational events. Plans include a symposium entitled "Improved US/Cuban Relations and Impacts on Jazz," as well as workshops and open rehearsals. Events will be video-recorded to make them accessible as educational resources and audience engagement tools at the new Jazz Bakery performance space. TeAda Productions - To support the creation and production of "Masters of the Currents," a new work exploring recent immigration in Hawaii. Created through community-based story gathering and devised theater techniques, the work will explore issues facing Micronesian immigrants and their assimilation into Hawaiian culture. TeAda will partner with Kokua Kalihi Valley Comprehensive Family Services and the T-Shirt Theatre of Hawaii to conduct interviews, story circles, and community engagement workshop. ###
01.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Jack d¹Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement following the decision by the California Supreme Court in HOWARD JARVIS TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION v. PADILLA (LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA). In 2014, the California Legislature enacted Senate Bill 1272 (Lieu), placing an advisory question (known as Proposition 49) on the ballot soliciting the views of California voters on whether to amend the U.S. Constitution to overturn the U.S Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United v. FEC. Shortly thereafter, the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association sought to remove Proposition 49 from the ballot, arguing that the Legislature had exceeded its authority in placing it there. Today the California Supreme Court ruled in favor of allowing the advisory measure on the ballot. “I am very pleased by the California Supreme Court’s ruling today to uphold the law I authored that will allow voters to have their say on the disastrous US Supreme Court decision in Citizens United. Massive money in politics has a corrosive, corrupting influence on our democracy. Now Congress must act to pass a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United.” ###
12.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has issued the following statement in light of the Food and Drug Administration’s proposed rules regulating tanning beds. “I am thrilled the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) released their proposed rule to ban tanning-bed use for those under the age of 18. This past June, I led a letter, signed by 18 members of Congress, to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) asking that they release FDA’s proposed tanning bed regulations, General and Plastic Surgery Devices: Restriction of Sunlamp Products (RIN 0910-AH14), for public comment as soon as possible. “For many years, I have led the fight to regulate and restrict ultraviolet tanning bed use, such as authoring the first state law in the nation to ban tanning bed use by minors. Skin cancer is the most commonly occurring cancer in the United States and costs $8.1 billion to treat annually. UV tanning beds cause skin cancer. The new rules released by FDA today are critical in the fight to eradicate skin cancer, and I look forward to the rules becoming final.” ###
12.17.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has issued the following statement in advance of today’s White House event: Arts & Innovation - Prison Reform & Reentry in the 21st Century. The event will be a unique opportunity to discuss innovative ways to transform the prison experience, criminal justice system, and the reentry process through arts-based initiatives. The event will focus on implementing creative programs in prisons across the country that create meaningful experiences and reduce rates of recidivism. The event will feature actor, director and advocate Tim Robbins, a tireless champion for the arts and prison reform. This past September, Congressman Lieu, along with 19 fellow House Democrats, sent a letter to the Bureau of Prisons encouraging that they expand arts education and engagement in their prisons. “I am very excited to join with actor Tim Robbins and the Actors’ Gang to take part in the White House’s event on Arts & Innovation: Prison Reform & Reentry in the 21st Century. America’s criminal justice system is at a critical juncture with over 2.2 million adults incarcerated in our prison system. Arts education in prisons has a history of proven success. Data shows that arts education in prison can result in improved behavior among inmates, fewer disciplinary actions, cost savings, and reduced recidivism. Despite these impressive results, there are too few of these programs in our prison system. I hope that as Congress looks at criminal justice reform, arts education will remain a fundamental part of the conversation.” Mr. Tim Robbins, Founder of the Actors’ Gang and Academy Award honored actor and director, also made comment. “We at the Actors’ Gang are grateful for Congressman Ted Lieu’s continued support and look forward to seeing him at our Arts and Innovation event at the White House. Ted has been to see our work at the California Institute for Women and understands firsthand the transformative effect the arts can have in rehabilitation. I look forward to working with Ted to expand the availability of arts programs in correctional institutions and also, importantly and preemptively, within the California public school system.” ###
12.17.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of today’s House Oversight Committee hearing on vetting terrorist travel for national security concerns. “As a Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I find it outrageous that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) rejected a secret policy to review social media of foreigners seeking entry to the US through the visa program. Based on an USCIS memo recently released by MSNBC and reporting by multiple media organizations, I am deeply troubled that US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Director Leon Rodriguez apparently misled the Committee today during his testimony when he repeatedly denied any such secret policy. I am proud to be an American because being a citizen of the greatest country in the world comes with it many benefits, including the critical fact that the US Constitution applies to US citizens. But the US Constitution does not apply to a foreign national seeking entry to the US. Yet DHS apparently believes foreign nationals seeking entry to the United States have more rights than US citizens when it comes to social media. In America, if a US citizen applies for a job in the private or public sector, their social media postings can certainly be reviewed. The federal government also apparently reviews social media as a factor in determining whether persons, including US citizens, should be placed on the Terrorist Watch List. In a perversion of the US Constitution, DHS apparently believes foreigners seeking entry to the US have some sort of reasonable expectation of privacy under the Constitution. They do not have those rights. This is an urgent matter of national security and the DHS' current policy makes no sense. DHS needs to have a department-wide policy of reviewing social media of foreign nationals seeking a visa, and they need to change their policy NOW. DHS also needs to apologize for the misleading testimony they gave under oath today to the Oversight Committee.” ###
12.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of the delegates to the COP21 Paris Climate Summit reaching a final agreement to limit carbon pollution and address the climate crisis: “I am thrilled by the climate agreement reached at the Paris talks. The Paris Agreement involves 190 countries and commits each nation, for the very first time, to lowering its carbon pollution and keeping Earth’s global temperature well below the devastating 2 degree Celsius rise. This is a historic moment not only for the United States, but the entire world, as we work to save our planet from the destruction of climate change. “My home state of California has long been a world leader in tackling climate change, and I am proud of the Golden State’s presence at the Paris talks. I am also particularly proud of the University of California for being the only university to join Bill Gates’s Breakthrough Energy Coalition, a group of investors committed to green innovation and technologies. “I hope that Congress will support the historic progress that the Paris Agreement represents. The economic vibrancy, national security and health of our nation – of our world – in great part depends on Congress’ willingness to forge urgent, bipartisan solutions to address the global peril of climate change.” ###
12.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congressman Peter Welch (D | Vermont), along with 43 distinguished House colleagues, have sent a letter to the Chief Executive Officers of ExxonMobil, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, British Petroleum, Shell and Peabody Energy. The letter comes in the wake of investigations by the Los Angeles Times and Inside Climate News alleging that Exxon scientists confirmed fossil fuels’ role in climate change decades ago, but top executives decided to hide the truth and instead embarked on a massive campaign of denial and disinformation. Furthermore, an investigation by the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) has concluded that ExxonMobil was not alone in hiding knowledge of climate change while spreading disinformation about climate science. UCS concluded there was a “coordinated campaign of deception” on climate science by “ExxonMobil, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, BP, Shell, Peabody Energy, and other members of the fossil fuel industry." In the letter, Congressman Lieu, Congressman Welch and their colleagues ask the following of Big Oil CEO’s: “As members of Congress concerned about climate change and the devastating effects it is having and will continue to have on our planet, we are alarmed by reports stating that Exxon (becoming ExxonMobil in 1999) hid the truth about the role of fossil fuels in influencing climate change and intentionally spread disinformation about climate science.” “Given the information that has come to light from multiple investigations, we request that you answer the following questions: When did your company first become aware that using fossil fuels could result in climate change and warming of the planet? What did your company do with this information? Did your company fund organizations that denied climate change or sought to spread uncertainty about climate change? …" The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
12.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congressman Peter Welch (D | Vermont), along with 43 distinguished House colleagues, have sent a letter to the Chief Executive Officers of ExxonMobil, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, British Petroleum, Shell and Peabody Energy. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
12.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding his promotion to Colonel in the United States Air Force Reserves. The Air Force selected 163 of 1,538 officers considered for Colonel for a selection rate of 10.6%. Ted joined the United States Air Force on active duty in 1995. He served in both Operation DESERT STRIKE and Operation PACIFIC HAVEN. After serving on active duty for four years, Ted wanted to continue to serve his country and joined the reserves. He has received numerous medals for his military service, including the Air Force Humanitarian Service Medal and multiple Meritorious Service Medals. “I joined the Air Force on active duty and decided to continue to serve in the Reserves to give back to America – an exceptional country of boundless opportunity that has given so much to my family. I am deeply humbled and honored to be selected for promotion to the rank of Colonel. I look forward to continuing to serve our nation as a reservist and as a Member of the House of Representatives. In both these solemn duties, I pledge to always honor the Air Force’s core values: integrity first, service before self, and excellence in all we do.” ###
12.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement in light of Donald Trump’s proposal to prevent Muslims from entering the United States, as well as Mr. Trump comparing his proposal to policies enacted in World War II that ultimately resulted in the internment of Americans of Japanese descent. “Donald Trump recently proposed a ban on all Muslims from entering the United States. He is now trying to justify that bigoted proposal based on policies the U.S. enacted in World War II. The racist internment of Americans of Japanese descent represented some of the darkest moments in American history – when we betrayed our most sacred values. Mr. Trump says he might have supported the internment. Mr. Trump's brand of bigoted and racist demagoguery does nothing to safeguard American families and further underscores a basic truth: He is unfit to be President, and just a really awful person." ###
12.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) testified before the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Health in support of his legislation, H.R. 3484 – the Los Angeles Homeless Veterans Leasing Act of 2015. The legislation is currently pending in the House of Representatives and would give the VA authority to enter into enhanced-use leases for the construction of supportive housing for Veterans. This authority would be a strong step forward in the mission to serve the needs of disadvantaged Veterans and end Veterans homelessness in Los Angeles County. U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Congressman Lieu testified today: "As a Veteran, it is a privilege to represent the West LA VA, the largest VA Medical Center in the nation. Our VA hospital does a tremendous amount of good every day for our Veterans. However, Los Angeles County is also ground zero for homeless Veterans, with thousands sleeping on the streets each night. The numbers are daunting and the urgency to provide permanent homes to these Veterans must be a priority.” “My bill, H.R. 3484, restores the authority to the VA to enter into Enhanced Use Leases solely for the purpose of developing supportive housing for homeless and at-risk Veterans. I am pleased to report Senator Feinstein has introduced S. 2013 in the Senate, the companion bill to H.R. 3484. It is my hope the bills will pass through committee and go to the floors of our respective chambers very soon. Without Enhanced Use Leases, our ability to serve vulnerable veterans on this property will be stalled.” The full text of the Congressman’s testimony can be found here. Additional Background In August, Congressman Lieu joined with Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer to urge the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committees to support legislative authority to support the VA’s work with local governments to provide housing and services for homeless and disadvantaged veterans at the West Los Angeles Campus. ###
12.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) testified before the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Health in support of his legislation, H.R. 3484 – the Los Angeles Homeless Veterans Leasing Act of 2015. The full text of the Congressman's testimony can be found here. H.R. 3484 is currently pending in the House of Representatives and would give the VA the authority to enter into enhanced-use leases for the construction of supportive housing for Veterans. U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. ###
12.04.2015	LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) shared the following information to help constituents deal with the effects of El Niño. Large areas across California are at an increased risk for flooding from El Niño as a direct result of recent wildfires and years of drought. Large-scale wildfires can dramatically alter the landscape and ground conditions, which increase the risk of flooding within the burn and downstream areas. Historically, when precipitation falls on unprotected earth on moderate to steep slopes, it can cause soil instability that often leads to significant landslides and debris runoff. Additionally, extreme drought and increased temperatures create ground conditions that cannot easily absorb rainwater. Until the ground becomes stable, the unprotected areas may continue to be at increased risk for years. Constituents should be aware of a few things when considering flood insurance: Constituents cannot get flood insurance at the last minute. In most cases, it takes 30 days for a new flood insurance policy to go into effect. So get your policy now. Only Flood Insurance Covers Flood Damage. Most standard homeowner’s policies do not cover flood damage. It is recommended that you get all the coverage you'll need. Your insurance agent can walk them through an appropriate policy. More information on flood preparedness can be found here. ###
12.04.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement announcing the introduction of a resolution to champion the importance of the U.S.-Israel economic relationship and encourage new areas of cooperation. This year marks the 30th anniversary of the U.S.-Israel Free Trade Agreement. A bi-partisan group of congressional colleagues joined Congressman Lieu in authoring the resolution, including Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade; Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; and Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “Since the signing of the U.S.-Israel trade agreement 30 years ago, Israel has become one of our most dynamic economic partners in the entire Middle East and North Africa. Despite representing a mere two percent of the region’s population, it has become a top U.S. trading and investment relationship. “What makes the relationship truly unique, however, is the cutting-edge innovation that I have witnessed firsthand. From Los Angeles’ Silicon Beach to Tel Aviv’s Silicon Wadi, our technology sectors are driving innovation across industries. Our joint science and technology research institutions are collaborating on life-changing medical breakthroughs and clean energy technology. U.S. States are even entering into individual agreements with Israel to deepen cooperation in specific areas of interests, as California did in 2014 on water conservation and cybersecurity. “Our resolution today recognizes that the U.S.-Israel economic relationship has become central to our strategic partnership. I plan to work with my colleagues to seek out new ways to deepen that relationship even further and address the shared challenges our two nations face.” ###
12.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding final passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177): The Every Student Succeeds Act is an improvement from current law and the waiver system, which has caused uncertainty for school districts and states. I am pleased the bill reduces the over-reliance on standardized testing, allowing students and teachers more time for learning in the classroom. Further, I am encouraged that the bill improves accountability and state and district responsibility to strengthen struggling schools. At the same time, I am disappointed the final bill did not include Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) data disaggregation provisions. This important information is vital for ensuring that all AAPI students are not put into a single category – contributing to the “model minority” stereotype – which risks allowing students to fall through the cracks and glossing over the serious challenges many young people in the diverse AAPI community face. I will continue the fight I began years ago for the public and private sector to expand AAPI data disaggregation. Further, I am frustrated by the four-year reporting requirements for English Language Learners (ELL), which risks obscuring ELL data for vulnerable students. I am also disappointed that financial literacy is not required to be part of math testing. If we are going to have testing, then financial literacy needs to be part of it. Financial literacy is key to economic survival in modern times. If we ignore the important issue of financial literacy, we will do a great disservice to our children. Despite my concerns, I believe this bill is an improvement from the status quo and will better allow our teachers and students to succeed in the future. ###
12.01.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) took to the House Floor to oppose S.J.Res. 23 and 24, House Republican resolutions which condemn the EPA’s historic Clean Power Plan. "This is just another example of the Republican majority denying the urgency and severity of carbon pollution. At a time when the entire world is meeting in Paris to address carbon pollution, the Republican majority is doing exactly the opposite.” “History books will one day say that America led the way in addressing climate change and saving our planet or there will be no history books." FULL VIDEO OF CONGRESSMAN LIEU’s FLOOR SPEECH ***
11.25.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding tomorrow’s Thanksgiving holiday. “On this holiday of thanks, my wife Betty, our sons Brennan and Austin, and I join with you and your family to reflect on the blessings that the past year has brought. I am grateful for the honor to serve the constituents of California’s 33rd district in Congress and I wish everyone a healthy and happy Thanksgiving 2015.” ###
11.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LOS ANGELES – Yesterday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) convened the inaugural meeting of the Elected Officials Council on Veterans (Council). A first of its kind coalition, it brought together elected leaders from all levels of government to address the needs of local Veterans. More than a dozen elected officials from throughout Los Angeles County participated in the meeting, along with housing providers and over two dozen senior staff from various government offices. The goal of the Council is to better leverage and pool respective resources to maximize their delivery to Veterans. Congressman Lieu said, “I am confident that the members of the Council will work together to accelerate our mutual goal of ending homelessness among Veterans using the Housing First model.” A presentation was given by a nationally recognized panel of experts from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). They included: Mr. Vincent Kane, a national expert on Veterans homelessness and Special Assistant to Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert A. McDonald who was appointed to develop and implement the Homeless Plan as well as oversee the creation of the Master Plan for the West LA VA Campus; Dr. Jonathan Sherin, a national expert on Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) in Veterans and subject matter expert for the former plaintiffs in Valentini v McDonald; and Heidi Marston, Special Assistant to Secretary McDonald detailed to Los Angeles to assist with the Master Plan outreach efforts by the VA. During the meeting, the panel presented VA’s efforts to address Veterans homelessness in Los Angeles County using the Housing First model and providing permanent supportive housing for the most vulnerable and chronically homeless Veterans. They also shared updates on the status of the West LA VA Master Plan and recommended that the Council submit comments and suggestions into the Congressional Record. Following the presentation, a discussion followed where the Department of Veterans Affairs requested leasing authority to enter into public private partnerships. Congressman Lieu’s legislation, H.R. 3484 – the Los Angeles Homeless Veterans Leasing Act of 2015, is currently pending in the House of Representatives, and would give the VA the authority to enter into leases for the construction of supportive housing. U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. In early December, the House Veterans Affairs Committee will conduct a hearing on Lieu’s bill. The following elected officials were represented at the Council: Representative Tony Cardenas (CA-29) Assemblymember Richard Bloom, District 50 Assemblymember Matt Dababneh, District 45 Assemblymember David Hadley, District 66 Los Angeles City Councilmember Mike Bonin, District 11 Los Angeles City Councilmember David Ryu, District 4 Mayor of Beverly Hills Julian Gold, M.D. Vice Mayor of Beverly Hills John Mirisch Mayor of Santa Monica Kevin McKeown Mayor of Hermosa Beach Carolyn Petty Mayor of Malibu John Sibert Mayor of Lawndale Robert Pullen-Miles Palos Verdes Estates City Councilmember Betty Lin Peterson Santa Monica City Councilmember Ted Winterer Staff from the Office of Representative Judy Chu (CA-32) Staff from the Office of Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Staff from the Office of Representative Linda Sanchez (CA-38) Staff from the Office of Representative Adam Schiff (CA-28) Staff from the Office of Representative Brad Sherman (CA-30) Staff from the Office of Representative Steven Knight (CA-25) Staff from the Office of Representative Julia Brownley, (CA-26) Staff from the Office of California State Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin De Leon, District 24 Staff from the Office of California State Senator Ben Allen, District 26 Staff from the Office of California State Senator Fran Pavley, District 27 Staff from the Office of California Assemblymember Autumn Burke, District 62 Staff from the Office of California Assemblymember Sebastian Ridley-Thomas, District 54 Staff from the Office of California Assemblymember Miguel Santiago, District 53 Staff from the Office of Los Angeles County Supervisor Sheila Kuehl Staff from the Office of Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti Staff from the Office of Los Angeles City Councilmember Bob Blumenfield, District 3 Staff from the Office of Los Angeles City Councilmember Paul Koretz, District 5 Staff from the Office of Los Angeles City Councilmember Curren Price, District 9 ###
11.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the recent death of American student Ezra Schwartz, who was killed by terrorists last week: “I am deeply saddened by the recent terrorist attacks that have taken place throughout Israel, including the random shooting of Ezra Schwartz, an eighteen year-old American student. Ezra took his love of helping others from Boston to Israel. As I have said before, these attacks and the statements that inspire them do not do justice to those seeking a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. These random acts of violence must be condemned in the strongest possible terms by Palestinian leaders and the international community. I join in offering my condolences to the Schwartz family, including Ezra's parents, Ari and Ruth, and to his siblings Mollie, Hillel, Elon, and Avi. Ezra’s compassion and dedication to service should serve as an inspiration to us all.” ###
11.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) , Congressman Jared Polis (D | CO-2) and 10 other members of Congress have sent a letter to House leadership requesting that Congressman Lieu’s amendment to redirect cannabis eradication funds be adopted into any upcoming spending bill or omnibus ahead of the December 11 deadline. Congressman Lieu’s amendment, House Amendment 296 to H.R. 2578 (the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016) passed the House without any opposition from either party earlier this year. Congressman Lieu’s commonsense amendment targets $9 million dollars in the Domestic Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program in the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) budget and redistributes it to three accounts that play a far more useful role in promoting the safety and economic prosperity of the American people: the Violence Against Women Act Youth-Oriented Program, the Victims of Child Abuse program, and the Spending Reduction Account. Congressman Lieu’s letter to House Leadership has been endorsed by the Marijuana Policy Project and Drug Policy Alliance. The letter is co-signed by Democratic Congressmembers Earl Blumenauer, Steve Cohen, Eric Swalwell, Mark Pocan, Michael Honda, Barbara Lee, Jan Schakowsky, Raul Grijalva, Beto O’Rourke and Sam Farr. In the letter, Congressman Lieu, Congressman Polis and their Democratic colleagues write: “Despite both the programs’ proven ineffectiveness and the seismic shift in attitudes on marijuana policy within Congress and across our nation, the DEA continues to spend millions of taxpayer dollars on its Domestic Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program, spending $18 million in 2014 alone.” “The language contained in this amendment, supported by an overwhelming bipartisan majority of Congress, is an important and needed step forward to cut waste from our federal budget and focus our limited resources on programs that have proven to be effective at preventing violence, assisting children who have been victimized, and promoting public health.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
11.19.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the Syrian/Iraqi Refugee Crisis and House Republican legislation (H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies [SAFE] Act of 2015) to “pause” admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States. “My thoughts and prayers remain with the victims of the horrific terrorist attacks in Paris last week. Americans are justifiably concerned about security here at home and Congress is rightfully questioning homeland security and intelligence officials to ensure we are doing everything we can to prevent a similar attack in the United States. During these times of crisis, the best angels of the American character must not be overtaken by fear and xenophobia. In search of a politically expedient solution, some are calling on the government to stop admitting Syrian refugees. Others have suggested we block only Muslims – a bigoted idea and a desecration of our nation’s foundational religious freedoms. Saying we need to choose between our refugee program and protecting national security is a false choice. It is also intellectually dishonest. There is not a single example of a refugee committing a terrorist act in the United States. In Paris, the attacks were actually perpetrated by French nationals and Belgians, not Syrian refugees. Should we ban travel from French citizens and Belgians to America because some of them committed terrorist acts in Paris? If that idea sounds ridiculous, then so should the idea of banning children, widows, and seniors fleeing Syria from seeking safety in the United States. Of the approximate 2,200 Syrian refugees already admitted to the United States, half are children and a quarter are senior citizens. Refusing to help some of the most vulnerable human beings in the world is not just un-American, it is an irrational overreaction with zero policy justification. As an Air Force officer stationed in Guam during the mid-1990s, I participated in Operation PACIFIC HAVEN where the United States extracted thousands of Kurds out of northern Iraq to prevent Saddam Hussein from slaughtering them. I saw first-hand the extensive screening process that the U.S. conducted of the Kurdish refugees before bringing many of them to the mainland. Our nation’s screening process has only improved since then. As Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson recently testified before Congress, refugees are already “subject to the highest level of security checks” before being admitted into the United States. It is an arduous 18-to-24 month process that puts UN-registered refugees through repeated screenings and background checks involving multiple government agencies. House Republicans have introduced hastily-written legislation that would effectively shutter our program for refugees from war-torn Syria and Iraq. This knee-jerk reaction demonizes the vulnerable human beings who are most threatened by the conflict and is strategically unwise. No one is happier about xenophobic, anti-Muslim, reactions than the so-called Islamic State. Islamophobic hysteria is a prime recruiting tool for terrorist organizations. This is exactly the kind of overreaction that they hope to achieve: To use terrible acts of violence to horrify Western society into compromising our own humanity and way of life. The American story has in large part been written by intrepid souls fleeing persecution in search of a better life in a nation forged in liberty's name and dedicated to the equality of all. Anyone who would close our borders to orphans fleeing barrel bombs, when substantial security checks are in place, is simply admitting defeat. They are surrendering to the tragic idea that America cannot be both strong and value-driven, that our union cannot be made more perfect by confronting fear and hatred and violence with even greater measures of strength, compassion and virtue. We are better than that.” ###
11.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Opening Statement Congressman Ted W. Lieu Hearing on “Internet of Cars” Joint Hearing of Oversight & Government Reform Subcommittee on Information Technology and Subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets *** Thank you Chairman Mica, Chairman Hurd, Ranking Member Duckworth and Ranking Member Kelly. The Internet of Things brings technology and connectivity into every corner of our lives, including our cars. With the pervasiveness of technology, cybersecurity standards and privacy protections become more important than ever. Unlike other sectors, security and privacy by design are not yet fully ingrained in automotive manufacturing culture, as evidenced by the news regarding car cybersecurity issues with wireless entry keys and car hacks. However, regulation can be slow, rigid and discourage innovation if done wrong. Rushing to regulation is not the answer, but neither is lack of accountability or standards. The advances that the auto industry has made in the last year, setting up an Information Sharing and Analysis Center and a set of enforceable privacy principles have been in part because of public and government pressure. The Safety and Privacy in Your Car Study Act, or the SPY Car Study Act, a bipartisan bill cosponsored by Congressman Joe Wilson and myself is a first step in bringing industry, advocates and government together to strike a balance between innovation and consumer protection. It brings together NHTSA, NIST, the FTC, private industry, engineers, advocates and educators to make sure we take the careful approach to regulation and standards without stifling innovation. Having served on active duty in the military, and still in the reserves, I am trained to think about worst case scenarios. There are three questions that should be addressed. 1. Can a hacker, now or in the future, remotely take control of a car and use it as a weapon or to cause an accident? 2. Can a hacker, now or in the future, remotely take control of a fleet of cars and use them as weapons or to cause accidents? 3. Can a hacker, now or in the future, remotely take partial control of a car to use as a weapon or to cause an accident? For example, if you were driving down the highway at 60 mph, could a hacker suddenly activate the breaks to cause an accident? Americans have a right to drive cars that are safe and to keep information about their daily lives private. I look forward to hearing the testimony from today’s panel of witnesses and look forward to asking them questions on this issue of vital public importance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ***
11.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Los Angeles - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has selected the 2015 Academy Nomination Selection Committee for the 33rd Congressional District. This committee is comprised of current military members and veterans who live in the 33rd Congressional District. Committee members will evaluate and recommend applicants to Congressman Lieu for nominations to the five United States Service Academies. With over 80 applicants, the 2015 Academy Nomination Selection Committee for the 33rd Congressional District is comprised of six members who serve and have served in different branches of the U.S. military. Each year, Congressman Lieu will choose new members to serve on this committee. The 2015 Academy Nomination Selection Committee for the 33rd Congressional District: Captain Maureen Brinkman (U.S. Army and Air National Guard, from San Pedro, CA) “I am excited about this opportunity to serve on the 2015 Academy Nomination Selection Committee for Representative Ted Lieu and the 33rd Congressional District. I hope my varied prior military service experiences will be advantageous in selecting the best candidates for future leadership roles in the military.” Captain Ted Horton-Billard, Jr. (United States Marine Corps Reserve, from Beverly Hills, CA) “It is both an honor and privilege to have been selected to serve on this Committee. I am particularly grateful for this opportunity as a Marine Corps veteran to help participate in the identification and selection of our country’s future military leaders. President John F. Kennedy once said, “Leadership and learning are indispensable to each other.” I can think of no place where that statement is truer than with the appointments of our best and brightest to our country’s military academies. “ Petty Officer Jessy Melowicz (U.S. Coast Guard Reserves, from Rolling Hills Estates, CA) "I believe a strong national defense is a vital responsibility of our federal leaders. The candidates who will be selected to attend a Service Academy have an obligation and commitment of serving in our armed forces for a minimum of 5 years. It takes a well-rounded person who demonstrates fine leadership skills, achieves high academic marks and is prepared athletically to be one of the few and finest Americans who can meet the Academies' high admission standards and hold their own against fierce competition for appointment. I take very seriously, the duty of helping to ensure that our country has the finest women and men the nation has to offer selected to lead our military. It is with great privilege and honor that I will be serving on the 2015 Academy Selection Committee with Congressman Ted Lieu." Major Justin Rufa (U.S. Air Force Academy Graduate, U.S. Air Force, from Manhattan Beach, CA) “I am proud to take part in nominating some of South Bay’s brightest and motivated to attend our nation’s service academies. It will be exciting to meet these young leaders and discuss their motivations for service to their country. Their willingness to commit to a greater calling is both refreshing and essential in today’s world. Thank you Congressman Lieu for the opportunity. Lieutenant Commander Vikram Sardana (U.S. Naval Academy Graduate and U.S. Navy, from Hermosa Beach, CA) “My experience at the US Naval Academy profoundly shaped me toward a life of service to the Navy and our country. It was my privilege and fortune to serve. I hope to share and offer my experiences for tomorrow’s leaders.” Major Duncan Smith (U.S. Military Academy Graduate and U.S. Army, from Redondo Beach, CA) "This is a tremendous opportunity and I'm honored to support our local community, the service academies and to indirectly serve our nation and its representatives. Selection to this committee not only gives me a sense of pride to represent the academies, but also gives me a sense of full-circle service to our nation and its sons and daughters. Twenty years ago, I was in their shoes going through a similar process and I look forward to assisting the committee to find our best candidates to move forward in the selection process. Volunteering in this capacity is best summed up by West Point's motto, "Duty, Honor, Country." ###
11.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Naomi Oreskes have penned an exclusive opinion piece for The Hill. The op-ed, entitled “What Exxon Mobil Has Done,” draws upon recent investigations by the Los Angeles Times and Inside Climate News into ExxonMobil’s campaign to deceive the American people about the health and environmental ruin caused by global warming and to stop action by governments to address Earth’s rapidly accelerating climate crisis. Naomi Oreskes is professor of the history of science and affiliated professor of earth and planetary sciences at Harvard University. She is the co-author of “Merchants of Doubt.” Congressman Lieu ran for Congress to address Climate Change and was the first Member of the House to call for a Department of Justice investigation into ExxonMobil’s fraud on climate science. In the op-ed, Mr. Lieu and Professor Oreskes write: “It may be hard to accept, but a single company may have set back all of humanity. Had Exxon Mobil listened to its own scientists rather than spread disinformation on climate change, the world might not have wasted three crucial decades during which global warming went from a prediction to a fact.” “Exxon has profited from climate change even while denying it…” “It’s as if tobacco companies, knowing full well that cigarettes were killing millions of people, had invested in vast tracts of land to be developed into cemeteries.” The full text of the op-ed can be found here. ###
11.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ICYMI: House Democrats to talk cybersecurity in China By Cory Bennett, The Hill newspaper House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and six other Democrats are using the upcoming recess for a trip to China that will focus on a number of pressing topics, including cybersecurity, The Associated Press reported. The trip comes as the U.S. and China are trying to find a diplomatic solution to reduce Beijing’s alleged widespread digital campaign to pilfer American corporate secrets. During Chinese President Xi Jinping’s state visit in September, the two sides agreed to a “common understanding” not to conduct or condone any corporate hacking. But security researchers have accused the Asian power of already violating that pact. China is also suspected of orchestrating the devastating hacks at the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), which left over 20 million federal workers’ most sensitive information exposed. In addition to cybersecurity, the House delegation will discuss national security, climate change and human rights with Chinese officials and students “Our delegation travels to China seeking to expand cooperation between our nations in advancing economic growth and confronting the climate crisis that threatens our world,” Pelosi said in a statement. Pelosi’s group includes Democratic Reps. Jim McGovern (Mass.), Betty McCollum (Minn.), Tim Walz (Minn.), Joyce Beatty (Ohio), Alan Lowenthal (Calif.) and Ted Lieu (Calif.). Lieu has quickly become a prominent voice on cybersecurity since his election last November. In the wake of the OPM hacks, he was the first lawmaker to call for then-OPM Director Katherine Archuleta to resign, which she did several weeks later. Lieu has also been a strong proponent of strong encryption with no guaranteed access for government officials. The topic has been major source of concern for U.S. businesses in China, as the country advances laws that might require require foreign companies to use Beijing-approved encryption. Pelosi last traveled to China in 2009. ### This piece first appeared in The Hill newspaper on November 6, 2015
11.06.2015	Washington – Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi is leading a Congressional delegation trip to China, departing today and focusing on economic growth, national security and cyber security issues, human rights and the importance of bold action to reduce carbon pollution. “Our delegation travels to China seeking to expand cooperation between our nations in advancing economic growth and confronting the climate crisis that threatens our world,” said Leader Pelosi. “Our Members will also seek to engage in constructive dialogue on human rights, cyber threats, and other national security and stability issues of concern.” The delegation will meet with local Chinese government officials, students, and civil society. In addition to Leader Pelosi, the Members of the delegation are: Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), Co-Chair, Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission; Member, Agriculture Committee, Rules Committee Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), Appropriations Committee Congressman Timothy Walz (D-MN), Armed Services Committee, Agriculture Committee, Veterans Affairs Committee; Congressional-Executive Commission on the People’s Republic of China Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Member, Financial Services Committee Congressman Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Foreign Affairs Committee, Natural Resources Committee Congressman Ted Lieu (D-CA), Budget Committee, Oversight and Government Reform Committee; Congressional-Executive Commission on the People’s Republic of China # # #
11.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) introduces The Security and Privacy in Your Car Study Act of 2015 a.k.a. The Spy Car Study Act. Mr. Lieu is the Democratic lead on the legislation that would require the National Highway Safety Transportation Commission to conduct a 1 year study, consulting with the Federal Trade Commission, National Institutes of Standards and Technology, the Department of Defense, industry leaders and higher education institutions to recommend a framework for regulating car automotive software (e.g. diagnostic systems, navigation and entertainment systems) safety, cybersecurity and privacy regulations. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) is the Republican sponsor of the legislation. “Americans have a right to drive cars that are safe and protected from hackers. Frankly, without adequate protections, a hacker could turn a car into a weapon. The SPY Car Study Act is a first step in bringing industry, advocates and government together to strike a balance between innovation and consumer protection to ensure that car navigation, entertainment and operating systems are safe and the data gleaned from such systems kept private. The Internet of Things (IOT), brings technology and connectivity into every corner of our lives, including our cars. However, with the pervasiveness of technology, cybersecurity standards and privacy protections become more important than ever.” More Information Congressman Lieu is one of four computer science majors serving in the House. He is a Co-Chair of the Cloud Computing Caucus and a member of the Internet of Things Caucus. Recent WIRED magazine revelations that a Jeep’s UConnect entertainment and operating system could be hacked and the engines disabled remotely while on the freeway demonstrates the need for reasonable safety standards to protect the public. Further, several companies’ recent changes to their terms of service to allow them to sell user data collected from navigation and entertainment systems has called into question the security and privacy of every American driving a car today. The full text of the legislation can be found here ###
11.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - In response to the cases of Sherry Chen, Professor Xi Xiaoxing and other similar cases, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has sent a letter to Attorney General of the United States Loretta Lynch requesting that the Department of Justice (DOJ) open a full investigation into whether race, ethnicity or national origin played a part in recent instances where Asian Americans have been wrongfully arrested and indicted for alleged espionage only to have those charges later dropped. Specifically, Congressman Lieu, co-leads Congresswoman Judy Chu and Congressman Keith Ellison, and their Congressional colleagues are requesting that DOJ address why there appears to be an ongoing pattern and practice of people of color being singled out by federal law enforcement and prosecutors. The letter is co-signed by the Chair and Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, the Chairs of the Progressive Caucus, the Chairs of the Asian Pacific American Caucus, the Chair of the Hispanic Caucus, the Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus and 33 other members of the House. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and his Congressional colleagues write: “We, therefore, reiterate the request for a full investigation by the DOJ into the cases of Ms. Chen, Dr. Xi, and other similar cases regarding whether race or ethnicity played a role. We also request that the DOJ conduct a full investigation regarding why it appears there is a pattern and practice of minorities being singled out for arrest and indictment by federal officials. We look forward to working with you to address these concerns and reassure the American public that our government is adequately protecting the civil rights of all Americans.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
11.04.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D | Los Angeles County), along with 19 other members of Congress, sent a letter to the Bureau of Prisons encouraging that they expand arts education and engagement in their prisons. The National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) is currently supporting, in partnership with the Federal Bureau of Prisons, programs in six federal prisons. While a worthwhile effort, these comprise only four percent of the federal prisons nationwide. “America’s criminal justice system is at a critical juncture, with more adults incarcerated than ever before in our Nation’s history. Arts education in prisons has a history of proven success in reducing recidivism, improving inmate behavior, and saving taxpayers’ money. I am proud of California for successfully re-implementing California’s Arts-in-Corrections program, with the support of groups such as The Actors’ Gang. Arts-in-Corrections programs bring visual, performing, literary, media, and fine craft disciplines to correctional institutions. It is time for our federal prisons emulate the success California has had in this area.” Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-33) "I applaud Congress for acknowledging the very real role that the arts play in addressing the chronic problems within our prisons. Studies suggest that arts programs in prisons can be a cost-effective way to provide a safe space for self-expression that transcends mistrust, decreases aggression, and increases self-control. Correctional facilities note the impact of an arts program through a significant reduction in the recidivism rate, with more social readiness to pursue academic and vocational opportunities." Chairman Jane Chu, National Endowment for the Arts “With gratitude to our Congressman Ted Lieu and the other co‑signatories, we would like to add our support for this letter requesting an expansion of Arts programs across Federal facilities. In the almost ten years we have had the opportunity to develop our work behind bars we have seen the transformational impact of our approach to rehabilitation on the inmates, their families, the staff and the culture of prison. The Arts have proven to lower recidivism and reduce in‑prison violence at a cost that has often been referred to as, “budget dust.” The cognitive effects of our work have proven to be long‑term and deep.” Tim Robbins, Academy Award Winner and Founding Artistic Director, The Actors’ Gang The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
11.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – As reported in an exclusive with Inside Climate News’ Neela Banerjee, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has sent a letter to The Honorable May Jo White, Chair of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), requesting an investigation into whether or not ExxonMobil broke any laws by making misrepresentations or omitting material facts in security filings related to what the corporation knew about climate change. The letter is co-signed by Representatives Peter Welch (D | VT), Mark Desaulnier (D | CA-11) and Matt Cartwright (D | PA-17). In the letter, the four Member of Congress write: “As Members of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, we are deeply troubled by recent media reports alleging that ExxonMobil intentionally obfuscated the role of fossil fuels in influencing climate change. Investigations by the Los Angeles Times and Inside Climate News suggest that top executives at Exxon embarked on a massive campaign of denial and disinformation after company scientists connected the burning of fossil fuels with global warming. We request your agency investigate ExxonMobil’s past filings to determine if securities laws were violated by failing to appropriately disclose material risks related to climate change.” The full text of the letter can be downloaded here. ###
11.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement after the House passage of H.R. 1853, a bill to direct the President to develop a strategy to obtain observer status for Taiwan in the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL). “I am proud to cast my vote today in favor of H.R. 1853, a bill which has demonstrated a clear consensus in Congress for Taiwan obtaining observer status in INTERPOL. Fighting crime and terrorism is an obligation shared by all. I am pleased that the measure passed with overwhelming bipartisan support.” ###
11.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) sent a letter to The Honorable May Jo White, Chair of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, requesting an investigation into whether or not the ExxonMobil Corporation broke any laws by embarking on a massive campaign of disinformation on climate science. The letter is co-signed by Representatives Welch (VT), Desaulnier (CA-11) and Cartwright (PA-17). The full text of the letter can be downloaded here. ###
10.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the recent violence in Israel. “I am deeply saddened by the recent terrorist attacks that have taken place throughout Israel. Indiscriminately stabbing a 13-year-old boy on his bicycle and shooting a 76-year-old Israeli-American on a bus are acts of terror. These attacks and the statements that inspire them do not do justice to those seeking a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It is incumbent on the international community and Palestinian leaders to condemn these attacks in the strongest possible terms. I am hopeful that the new measures announced by Secretary Kerry, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, and Jordanian King Abdullah II governing the Temple Mount – including the installation of 24-hour surveillance cameras – will also help to restore calm.” ###
10.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the House of Representatives voting to re-open the U.S. Export-Import Bank. “The passage of re-authorization of the U.S. Export-Import Bank by the House of Representatives is welcome news. Yet, this good news is tempered by the fact that Congress should have acted months ago. Due to the most cynical and needless kind of partisan politics practiced by Tea Party Republicans, the expiration of the Export-Import Bank in June has had devastating impacts on communities from coast to coast. The House vote today to re-open the Export-Import bank doesn’t help those workers laid off by Boeing at their El Segundo facility in the heart of California’s 33rd district. My hope is that the Republican Conference has learned something from this sad episode. Hardworking Americans deserve bold economic solutions that protect and expand the backbone of the American economy – the middle class. I hope Republicans – in the coming weeks, months and years – will join with Democrats to deliver exactly that.” ###
10.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 23, 2015 WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued a statement following President Barack Obama signing into law H.R. 3116, the Quarterly Financial Report Reauthorization Act. H.R. 3116 is Congressman Lieu’s third bill to be signed into law since he began serving in Congress on January 6, 2015. “I am grateful President Obama has moved to quickly sign H.R. 3116 into law and reauthorize the Quarterly Financial Report (QFR), which had expired. Since the end of World War II, the QFR has been a closely-watched principal economic indicator used to produce timely, accurate data on business financial conditions that is widely used by the government and private sector alike. Good decisions require good information, and the Department of Commerce’s QFR provides that good information by surveying thousands of companies across a variety of sectors to analyze our nation’s GDP. “This comes on the heels of my two previous bills to support Veterans being signed into law as a part of S. 2082, the Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2015. As a Freshman Member of Congress, I am pleased to have had three bills signed into law in my first ten months in office, and I look forward to continue delivering for my constituents.” Two of Congressman Lieu’s previous bills, H.R. 1543 and H.R. 2934, were signed into law on September 30, 2015 as part of S. 2082, the Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2015. H.R. 1543, the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Earthquake Protection and Improvement Act, authorized $324 million for seismic retrofits to four VA facilities, including $35 million for the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center. H.R. 2934, the Advocating for Homeless Veterans Act, reauthorized the VA Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans, which provides valuable analysis of the VA’s efforts to fight veteran homelessness while advocating for additional resources from HUD-VASH vouchers to funds for local partnership programs that house veterans. ###
10.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 22, 2015 WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the White House’s announcement that the United States and Pakistan have pledged a new partnership to further adolescent girls’ education in Pakistan. The Government of Pakistan, as announced by Prime Minister Sharif in Oslo in July, will double spending for education in Pakistan, from two to four percent of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2018 and increase girls’ enrollment in school. In addition, the United States, through the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), is committing $70 million and will work jointly with the Government of Pakistan and other partners to help educate and empower more than 200,000 additional adolescent girls across Pakistan. “The White House’s announcement of a new partnership between the United States and Pakistan to advance adolescent girls’ education is fantastic news. The simple fact is that nations – large, small and everywhere in between – thrive when educational and economic opportunities for women and girls abound. This announcement comes on the heels of a productive visit by Prime Minister Sharif to the United States. Pakistan is a strategic partner of the United States and I look forward to continued work with my colleagues in Congress on ways to strengthen the bonds between us.” Congressman Lieu is committed to furthering the urgent cause of education at home and abroad. This past June, the Congressman co-authored an op-ed for CNN with Hugh Evans, CEO of the Global Poverty Project, calling for a historic level of Congressional funding for the Global Partnership for Education. The op-ed can be found here. ###
10.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Opening Statement: Ranking Member Ted Lieu (CA-33)Subcommittee on Information TechnologyHearing on Examining Law Enforcement Use of Cell Phone Tracking Devices “Thank you Mr. Chairman for holding today’s hearing on federal law enforcement policies regarding the use of cell-site simulators in criminal investigations. “In September of this year, the Department of Justice (DOJ) announced its new policy on cell-site simulators, commonly known as Stingrays, aimed at enhancing privacy protections and establishing a consistent legal standard for obtaining authority to use a simulator. Federal law enforcement will now be required to obtain a search warrant supported by probable cause, consistent with the protections in the Fourth Amendment. “Earlier this week, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced its department-wide policy, which similarly establishes a higher and more consistent legal standard of a search warrant requirement. “At the time of the DOJ announcement, I released a statement calling the policy change a welcome first step and suggested we needed hearings in this committee on the matter. As new technologies empower law enforcement with unique capabilities, stringent rules are needed to safeguard against abuse of our civil liberties. “The search warrant requirement establishes a consistent legal standard for federal authorities and will allow increased oversight of the use of cell-site simulators. Even in those limited circumstances when a warrant is not required for use of a cell-site simulator, there are controls in place to help ensure that the exceptions are not abused. I look forward to the witnesses today providing more details on those exceptions and the safeguards put in place. “These federal policies are needed to safeguard against abuse of individuals’ privacy and civil liberties. The data collection and retention practices in the new policy are intended to enhance privacy protections—and they do so without undermining a law enforcement tool. “I believe that these policy changes by DOJ and DHS, while a good step forward, could and should go further. As the ACLU has noted, the policy guidance contains significant gaps—including overbroad exceptions to the warrant requirement, lack of notice to individuals impacted by Stingrays, and lack of transparency in reporting. Most notably, these agency policy changes do not meaningfully restrict state and local officials who use Stingrays in the majority of U.S. states that do not regulate them. “I hope that state and local law enforcement agencies follow the lead of these federal policies and implement stringent privacy protections and legal standards. “In my home state of California, Governor Jerry Brown recently signed into law the California Electronic Communications Privacy Act, joining nine other states with laws that require state law enforcement to get a warrant before using cell-site simulators during criminal investigations. The California law also requires a warrant before law enforcement can search meta-data or other electronic communications. “Finally, I note that the federal policy changes are reversible and they do not apply to all federal agencies. As we have seen in the past, not all administrations or agencies have had respect for our civil liberties. We should follow the lead of multiple states, including my own state, and enshrine these policies into law across all agencies to make clear that the Fourth Amendment needs to be respected and persons have the right to be free from unreasonable search and seizure by the government. “I would like to commend Chairman Chaffetz, Ranking Member Cummings, Subcommittee on Information Technology Chairman Hurd and Ranking Member Kelly for their oversight work related to cell-site simulators. In April of this year, the Committee sent letters to DOJ and DHS requesting information and briefings on the policies surrounding cell-site simulators, which increased the Committee’s visibility into the policies governing the use of this law enforcement tool. “I would also like to thank the agencies appearing today for taking the time to testify about these important policy changes and their impacts on our civil liberties. As with other policies regulating government use of technology for law enforcement and surveillance purposes, it is vital that we closely examine the rules to ensure we fully understand what is permitted. “I look forward to reviewing policies related to the collection of geolocation and other electronic data to ensure that law enforcement tools are deployed consistently and with respect for privacy and civil liberties.” Thank you, Mr. Chairman." ###
10.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 21, 2015 MEDIA ADVISORY: OVERSIGHT SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING TODAY ON LAW ENFORCEMENT CELL PHONE TRACKING WHO: Congressman Ted W. Lieu, serving today as Ranking Member of Oversight Subcommittee on Information Technology WHEN: Wednesday, October 21, 2015 at 2:00pm WHERE: Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2154 WHAT: The Subcommittee will hold a hearing to examine the respective policies of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on the use of cell-site simulators to obtain location information in criminal investigations. WATCH: The Subcommittee Hearing at https://oversight.house.gov/hearing/examining-law-enforcement-use-of-cell-phone-tracking-devices/ ###
10.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ release of a preliminary Master Plan to revitalize the West Los Angeles VA campus. “The draft Master Plan is an integral first step in developing a roadmap for the future of the West LA VA campus. But the important work has just begun. VA Secretary Robert McDonald has set a 45-day public comment period during which all stakeholders will be invited to share their vision for the current and future uses of the VA campus. No one knows the property better than our Veterans who use it and the neighbors who surround it - their input is invaluable. I would like to encourage Veterans, Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs), community leaders, neighbors and elected officials to review the draft plan and submit their suggestions about the needs of Veterans and how the West LA VA can directly benefit them. The next steps in this process will be the most crucial. We must come together to develop a more specific plan with clear directives for implementation of the final Master Plan. It is critical we create irreversible momentum to deliver the services and housing for the Veterans of Los Angeles County. We owe them no less.” ###
10.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Ted Lieu (CA-33), and 10 additional Members of Congress have sent a letter to President Obama urging greater efforts to avoid civilian casualties in Yemen and achieve a diplomatic solution to the conflict. Last week, airstrikes conducted by a Saudi Arabia-led coalition struck a wedding reception in Sanban village, killing at least 23 Yemini civilians. The attack comes just over a week after an even deadlier attack on a wedding party in Wahijah village, which killed at least 131 people. “Secretary of Defense Ash Carter has acknowledged the United States is providing the Saudi-led coalition with intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and logistics information, as well as resupply of equipment and munitions,” the Representatives wrote. “In order to protect innocent lives and reduce the potential for backlash against U.S. interests, we urge your administration to work with our Saudi partners to limit civilian casualties to the fullest extent possible.” According to Amnesty International, more than 2,100 civilians, including at least 400 children, have been killed since the conflict began, with the vast majority of civilian deaths and injuries attributed to attacks by the Saudi Arabia-led coalition. The Representatives continued, “When U.S. weapons and intelligence are utilized, the decision to conduct an airstrike should correspond to the standards that would apply to any U.S. military operation for limiting civilian casualties and collateral damage. Additional precautions to protect civilians are particularly crucial as the State Department has reported thousands of U.S. citizens are still inside Yemen in the absence of an official evacuation.” The lawmakers also echoed the concerns of United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, who has made it clear that there is no military solution to the conflict in Yemen. Only a diplomatic solution will bring a peaceful end to this conflict and reverse the extensive humanitarian crisis. “With reports of the Houthi rebel leaders now open to possible UN negotiations, we urge you to continue all diplomatic efforts,” they wrote. “The people of Yemen and their relatives in the United States are counting on us to fully explore all avenues that could lead to peace in Yemen.” Additional signers include: Barbara Lee, Mark Pocan, Jan Schakowsky, Maxine Waters, David Cicilline, James McGovern, Raul Grijalva, John Conyers, Bobby Rush, John Lewis. A full copy of the letter can be found here. ###
10.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D|CA-33), along with Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (D|CA-11), has sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch regarding allegations that Exxon/ExxonMobil intentionally hid the truth about the role of fossil fuels in influencing climate change. In their letter, Congressman Lieu and Congressman DeSaulnier request an investigation by the Department of Justice into whether or not ExxonMobil has broken any laws: “In this case, Exxon scientists knew about fossil fuels causing global warming and Exxon took internal actions based on its knowledge of climate change. Yet Exxon funded and publicly engaged in a campaign to deceive the American people about the known risks of fossil fuels in causing climate change. If these allegations against Exxon are true, then Exxon’s actions were immoral. We request the DOJ to investigate whether ExxonMobil’s actions were also illegal. ” A full copy of the Lieu - DeSaulnier letter can he found here. ###
10.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D|CA-33), along with Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (D|CA-11), has sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch regarding allegations that Exxon/ExxonMobil intentionally hid the truth about the role of fossil fuels in influencing climate change. A full copy of the letter can he found here. ###
10.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) issued the following statement on the release of a report from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) on so-called “conversion therapy.” This practice, which purports to change a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity, has been discredited by the mainstream medical community and today’s SAMSHA report categorizes conversion therapies as “harmful” and “not appropriate therapeutic practices.” "Today's report from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration makes it clear that so-called ‘conversion therapy’ is psychological child abuse - plain and simple. I commend the Obama Administration for the report and for calling for an end to this fake, dangerous practice in all 50 states. Being gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender is not some mental state that needs conversion; rather being LGBT is to be human. That's why I have introduced the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act in Congress and I look forward to working with my colleagues - Democrats and Republicans alike - to pass a law that prevents fraudulent practitioners from using the ridiculous methods of conversion therapy to harm LGBT Americans." More information on Congressman Lieu’s Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act. ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) issued the following statement commending the Administration for ending the Syrian rebel training program, and calling again for an end to U.S. airstrikes. “I commend the Administration for ending the US program to train so-called ‘moderate’ Syrian ground forces. Now is the time to also end US airstrikes in Syria. As a graduate of Air War College, I strongly believe—and history shows—that airstrikes without accompanying ground forces are significantly less effective and can even be counterproductive. “The entry of Russian military forces in Syria further highlights the dangers of US airstrikes. US air combat operations in Syria increase the chances that US and Russian forces will inadvertently engage each other or operate at cross purposes. “Moreover, the Administration has yet to put forward a comprehensive strategy for the war in Syria and Congress has yet to authorize the use of force. The recurrent U.S. bombing in Syria does not appear to have made the situation more stable. More Syrian refugees, not less, are fleeing Syria. The U.S. should be using our limited resources to do everything we can to address the worst refugee crisis in a generation rather than risking American lives and wasting taxpayer dollars by continuing to intervene militarily in a complicated and dangerous civil war halfway across the world.” ###
10.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) released the following statement in response to the California Supreme Court’s hearing of oral arguments on the ballot eligibility of California Proposition 49. Prop 49 is an advisory question asking voters whether Congress should approve, and whether the California State Legislature should ratify, a constitutional amendment overturning Citizens United (2010) and other related judicial rulings. On January 27, 2015, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to the Supreme Court of California in support of Proposition 49. The proposition was blocked from ballot consideration in the 2014 election by Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association v. Padilla, the case being argued today. While serving in the California State Senate, Congressman Lieu authored S.B. 1272, the State Senate version of the advisory question. “I am hopeful that the outcome of today’s arguments will finally allow California voters to have their say on Citizens United,” said Congressman Lieu. “During my time in elected office, I have heard from countless Californians about the critical need to combat the enormous power that corporations now have in our elections. I am confident that Prop 49 would pass if it was put to the voters on next year’s ballots. In the meantime, we must continue to work together and leave no stone unturned in the fight to get money out of politics.” ###
10.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has sent a letter to the Supreme Court of California in support of California Proposition 49. Prop 49 is an advisory question asking voters whether Congress should approve, and whether the California State Legislature should ratify, a constitutional amendment overturning Citizens United (2010) and other related judicial rulings. The full text of Congressman Lieu's letter to the Supreme Court of California can be found here. ###
10.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) has sent a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James expressing concern over the Air Force's use of animals in its medical training courses. These courses are abusive to the animals involved. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
10.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement following the White House’s call for an investigation into the deaths of civilians and Red Crescent volunteers as a result of coalition airstrikes in Yemen. Earlier this week, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to General Joseph F. Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, requesting further information about civilian deaths as a result of Saudi Arabian led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. "This past week, I sent a letter to General Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, requesting more information about the thousands of civilians killed in airstrikes in Yemen - strikes led by Saudi Arabia and assisted by the United States. Yesterday's announcement by the White House, calling for an investigation into these civilian deaths, is welcome news. Given this tragic loss of life, in one case alone 131 people were killed in an errant strike on a wedding party, I reiterate my call for the United States to halt its participation in these airstrikes until a full investigation reveals just how many civilians have been killed and injured and how these casualties might be better prevented going forward." ###
10.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) announced that the City of Santa Monica was awarded funds under the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) bulletproof vest program. The total award is in the amount of $9,296.38 which will support the purchase of 21 vests. On May 19, Congressman Lieu sent a letter to DOJ requesting support for bullet proof vest funding through their Bureau of Justice Assistance Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program. “The Department of Justice’s bulletproof vest program is a great benefit to local law enforcement agencies around the nation and I am pleased to announce that the City of Santa Monica has received additional vest funds from DOJ. My office has been in contact with Mayor McKeown and Chief Seabrooks about the award announcement and has offered my continued assistance in making sure our law enforcement officers always have the training and material necessary to fulfill their mission to protect and serve our community at the highest possible level.” ###
10.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - On May 19, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) sent a letter to the Department of Justice (DOJ) supporting a grant request by the Santa Monica Police Department for funds to support the purchase of 21 bulletproof vests. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
10.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) ) issued the following statement after ExxonMobil announced the sale of its Torrance refinery to PBF Energy: “I have spoken with Jeffrey Dill, president of PBF Energy Western Region, and an ExxonMobil representative and received assurances from both companies that all refinery employees and contractors will keep their jobs if they want them. I thank ExxonMobil and PBF Energy for prioritizing the well-being of the refinery workers and urge them to maintain cooperation for a smooth transition. Until the refinery sale is finalized in 2016, I will continue to hold ExxonMobil accountable for the ongoing refinery safety and pollution concerns and do all that I can to ensure their cooperation with state and federal regulators.” ###
10.02.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 BILLS SPONSORED BY REP. TED W. LIEU AUTHORIZING VITAL VETERANS PROGRAMS TO GO TO PRESIDENT OBAMA’s DESK TODAY’S HOUSE VOTE WILL AUTHORIZE WEST LOS ANGELES VA MEDICAL CENTER SEISMIC RETROFIT, REAUTHORIZE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON HOMELESS VETERANS, AND OTHER IMPORTANT VA PROGRAMS Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles), sponsor of H.R. 1543, the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Earthquake Protection and Improvement Act and H.R. 2934, the Advocating for Homeless Veterans Act, issued the following statement in response to the passage of S.2082, the Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2015, by the House of Representatives: “I am pleased that the Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act incorporated both of my bills intended to serve veterans in my district and throughout the country. One of my top priorities in Congress is to provide my fellow veterans with the care and support they have earned and deserve. Upgrading VA buildings in Los Angeles to ensure that they are fit to withstand an earthquake is essential. By authorizing $324 million for seismic retrofits to four VA facilities, including $35 million for the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center, Congress enables the VA to ensure these buildings are safe for our veterans, health care providers, and staff. I want to thank Senators Feinstein and Boxer for working with me on this important issue. Without their leadership these retrofits would not be possible. “Further, the bill includes the reauthorization of the Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans, which maintains a vital component of the national campaign to address Veterans’ homelessness. No woman or man who has fought for their country in uniform should have to fight for a roof over their heads or food on their tables. Since 2001, the VA’s Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans has provided valuable analysis of the VA’s efforts while advocating for additional resources from HUD-VASH vouchers to funds for local partnership programs that house Veterans. Extending the Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans and more than thirty other Veterans programs for one year is a good first step. Going forward, I will work with the House and Senate Committees on Veterans’ Affairs to reauthorize these programs for a longer timeframe to provide our Veterans with the stability they deserve.” ###
10.01.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) released the following statement after he voted no on the Conference Report on H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (NDAA). “I support a strong U.S. national security policy. That is why I voted no today on the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Through months of budget, appropriations, and NDAA discussions, it has become apparent that my Republican colleagues believe that national security can be guaranteed solely by funding the military while subjecting everything else to draconian budget cuts. As a graduate of Air War College, I know that true national security is founded on projecting not just military might but all elements of national power: economic, political, and cultural, among others. The former Soviet Union tried to define national security as only funding the military; that is one reason the USSR collapsed. As long as Republicans insist on focusing on only one element of national power at the expense of the others, our country’s national security will suffer. This NDAA authorizes more than $89 billion in discretionary budget authority to a special war-time spending account in order to circumvent budget caps that apply to every other aspect of government. It is an accounting gimmick that adds instability to our defense budget and undermines our national power. It is also the latest illustration of the dangers of sequestration. As Defense Secretary Carter has said, the Republican bill is “clearly a road to nowhere” and “unfairly dispiriting to our force.” Additionally, this bill includes inexcusable provisions that amount to the most extensive restrictions on closing the Detention Center in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that have ever been included in the NDAA. It is long past time for the U.S. to lead by example and close this facility, which is a stain on our human rights record that costs our government nearly $3 million per year per inmate. After 53 consecutive years of passing the NDAA on a bipartisan basis, the majority has chosen to move forward with an irresponsible, partisan bill. At best, Republicans are undermining American power out of a refusal to fund anything else, such as education, health care, and infrastructure. At worst, they are playing partisan political games with our national security. I stand ready to work with my colleagues to responsibly fund the military and the rest of the federal government to guarantee true security for our nation.” ###
10.01.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in response to Senior Republicans admitting in successive days that there is no evidence that Planned Parenthood has violated any laws and that the Benghazi Select Committee was established for purely political reasons. “Despite the fact that 151 Republicans voted to shut down the federal government yesterday, another manufactured crisis was averted due to a unanimous vote by House Democrats and passage of a continuing resolution. However, this is only a short-term fix and our nation is on course to confront yet another unnecessary Republican-created crisis in December. Instead of honoring their constitutional requirement to pass crucial funding bills in a timely manner, Republican leadership is wasting taxpayer dollars on witch hunts into the Benghazi tragedy and the operations of Planned Parenthood. Taxpayer funded congressional committees should never be created for partisan political purposes. More frustrating is the fact that in successive days, senior Republicans have admitted that the Benghazi inquest is nothing more than a political stunt and that there is no evidence that Planned Parenthood has broken the law. The facts beg an obvious question: Why doesn’t Republican leadership stop wasting crucial taxpayer dollars on bogus investigations into Planned Parenthood and focus on working for the American people: passing a long term budget agreement, taking care of our veterans, rebuilding our nation’s crumbling infrastructure, and investing in education and the green energy economy.”
09.30.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in response to the ongoing story of Volkswagen’s manipulation of emission test software on at least 11 million cars, as well as the news of a federal probe into potential criminal violations on the part of the auto manufacturer. “Volkswagen’s manipulation of emission test software on at least 11 million cars is simply unacceptable. This disregard for the law underscores the absolute necessity for a fully empowered and fully funded Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). EPA must be able to hold companies accountable for their actions. I applaud Administrator McCarthy’s leadership at the EPA; I also fully support the Department of Justice opening a criminal investigation into Volkswagen’s actions. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that a major car manufacturer has tried to cheat on required emissions tests. In the urgent mission to curb carbon pollutants, protect the quality of the air we breathe and arrest the terrible effects of climate change, intentionally deceptive practices by corporations must not be tolerated. That’s why I am looking into legislative options to bolster the federal government’s ability to prevent and, when necessary, fully prosecute actions that not only constitute consumer fraud but also imperil our health and environment.” ###
09.30.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) ) issued the following statement after ExxonMobil announced the sale of its Torrance refinery to PBF Energy: “I have spoken with Jeffrey Dill, president of PBF Energy Western Region, and an ExxonMobil representative and received assurances from both companies that all refinery employees and contractors will keep their jobs if they want them. I thank ExxonMobil and PBF Energy for prioritizing the well-being of the refinery workers and urge them to maintain cooperation for a smooth transition. Until the refinery sale is finalized in 2016, I will continue to hold ExxonMobil accountable for the ongoing refinery safety and pollution concerns and do all that I can to ensure their cooperation with state and federal regulators.” ###
09.30.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Washington – Congressman Ted Lieu (D | Los Angeles) has sent a letter to General Joseph F. Dunford, the incoming chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, requesting further information about civilian deaths as a result of Saudi Arabian led coalition airstrikes in Yemen. In the letter, Congressman Lieu goes on to request that the United States cease aiding coalition airstrikes in Yemen until the coalition demonstrates that they will institute proper safeguards to prevent civilian deaths. ***
09.29.2015	CONTACT: Jack D’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D – Los Angeles) issued the following statement at the conclusion of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s partisan hearing on Planned Parenthood. Congressman Lieu has also made a floor speech and a video statement in support of Planned Parenthood. “Sitting in today’s Oversight Committee hearing was like spending time in some bizarre alternate universe. It’s ridiculous that the Republican Majority held a hearing based on heavily edited, misleading videos that – in reality – show that Planned Parenthood is following the law. It’s also bizarre and disappointing that the Majority is attacking fetal tissue research when it’s legal, enjoys bipartisan support and saves lives. I thank Cecile Richards for her graceful and honest testimony today. Her testimony underscored the most salient fact of all: Planned Parenthood has helped millions of women and men across America. On behalf of the majority of women and men in this great nation, I want to say thank you to Planned Parenthood for providing essential health care services in my home district of Los Angeles County and in districts from coast to coast.” ***
09.28.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in response to a new Pew Research Center study projecting that Asian Americans will become The United States’ largest immigrant group by 2055. “Every passing day, America becomes more diverse. The Pew Report shows that 88% of the growth in the U.S. population in the coming decades will be from immigrants. By 2055, Asian Americans will constitute the largest percentage of immigrants in America. Immigrants always have been, and always will be, the engine that drives our nation forward. From the workers who built our railroads to the actors and actresses who entertain us to the entrepreneurs who start companies, immigrants invigorate and energize our nation. “That’s why anti-immigrant rhetoric must stop. The comments by former Governor Jeb Bush on ‘anchor babies,’ in which he managed to simultaneously offend the Latino and Asian American communities, are an example of immigrant bashing that is both un-American and on the wrong side of history. “Our Department of Justice also must stop engaging in a pattern and practice of falsely arresting and indicting immigrants for alleged spying and espionage and then dropping all those charges. Innocent actions by Americans do not become nefarious or suspicious simply because the American has an Asian surname. “As an immigrant myself, I wake up every day thanking this remarkable country for inventing and sustaining the American dream. To be an immigrant is to be American.” ###
09.24.2015	Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Quarterly Financial Report Authorization Act (H.R. 3116). This legislation was introduced by Congressman Lieu and reauthorizes the Secretary of Commerce to publish a quarterly financial report (QFR) on manufacturing, trade and selected service industries. QFR data has been published since 1947 and is currently used by businesses, financial analysts, trade associations and banks; QFR data is a vital tool in tracking the health and growth of the American economy. The Department of Commerce has called the reauthorization of the Quarterly Financial Report a “top priority.” “I am thrilled today to pass my first bill in the House of Representatives, the Quarterly Financial Report Reauthorization Act, and to see it pass unopposed by voice vote. Since the end of World War II, the Quarterly Financial Report has been a closely-watched principal economic indicator used to produce timely, accurate data on business financial conditions that is widely used by the government and private sector alike. Good decisions require good information, and the Department of Commerce’s Quarterly Financial Report provides that good information by surveying thousands of companies across a variety of sectors to analyze our nation’s GDP. As we continue to rebuild our economy, we need all the tools at our disposal to measure our progress. I thank Chairman Chaffetz, Ranking Member Cummings, and the entire staff of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee for working with me to reauthorize this vital program before its expiration at the end of this month.” ###
09.24.2015	Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) released the following statement after Pope Francis’ historic address to the Joint Meeting of Congress: “His Holiness Pope Francis’ address to Congress this morning was a historic, electric moment. The Pope’s address to Congress was full of hope, inspiration, and moral fierceness. As a Catholic, I was deeply honored to be in the Pope’s presence this morning. Today’s historic address illuminates why we love Pope Francis. He speaks truth to power. He challenges us to do not what is easy, but what is right. He asks us to tackle the toughest issues, to do the hard work necessary to create a safer, healthier, more just and more equitable society for each and every American, for each and every citizen of the world. The Pope’s inspirational comments on fierce and urgent issues like immigration, income inequality, the death penalty and climate change deeply resonated with me. I hope the Pope’s message of unity, open dialogue and moral action prove to be a watershed moment for the United States Congress in its most solemn duty to act on behalf of the American people to bring justice, equality and peace to our nation and our world.” ###
09.22.2015	“As the sun sets, the Jewish Community marks the beginning of Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement. On behalf of Betty and myself, we wish all those who are participating an easy and meaningful fast. Yom Kippur is a time for self-reflection and compassion—an opportunity to repent for our transgressions as we forgive those around us. May we take this time to come together as a community and work towards a more peaceful future for our world.” ###
09.22.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in the wake of additional U.S airstrikes in Syria. “The Department of Defense reported this weekend that the United States continues to conduct airstrikes against ISIL targets in Syria. I opposed the prior use of U.S. military force in Syria, I opposed U.S. airstrikes into Syria launched from Turkey in August, and I oppose this latest round of U.S. airstrikes. I remain concerned that the Administration has yet to put forward a comprehensive strategy for the conflict in Syria and that Congress has yet to authorize this use of force. That is why I voted in favor of an amendment earlier this year by Representatives Barbara Lee, Jim McGovern, and Walter Jones to withdraw U.S. forces from Syria and Iraq due to the absence of congressional authorization. The recurrent U.S. bombing in Syria does not appear to have made the situation more stable. More Syrian refugees, not less, are fleeing Syria. The U.S. should be using our limited resources to do everything we can to address the worst refugee crisis in a generation rather than risking American lives and wasting taxpayer dollars by continuing to intervene militarily in a complicated civil war halfway across the world." ###
09.16.2015	Washington DC - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) and Congressman Justin Amash (R-MI) announce the introduction of their Stop Civil Asset Forfeiture Funding for Marijuana Suppression Act. The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) spends millions of federal dollars each year for its Domestic Cannabis Eradication / Suppression Program. Through this program, the DEA spent $18 million in 2014 alone and arrested 6,310 people. As many states across the country continue to ease restrictions on marijuana or legalize it entirely, this federal program represents a waste of precious federal resources. The DEA’s Domestic Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program is funded through the Department of Justice’s problematic and controversial civil asset forfeiture fund. Civil asset forfeiture enables police to take away property from individuals who have not been convicted of a crime. “As multiple states legalize marijuana across our nation, it is a huge waste of federal resources for the DEA to eradicate marijuana,” said Congressman Lieu. “The federal government should focus its precious resources on other issues and let the states innovate in the cannabis field. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan bill along with Congressman Amash.” "Civil asset forfeiture allows innocent people to have their property taken without sufficient due process, and this program encourages civil asset forfeiture by allowing the DEA to use the proceeds of seized property to fund marijuana prohibition enforcement,” said Congressman Amash. “This is especially troubling given that the federal government should not be expending resources on marijuana prohibition—enforcement is a state-level issue, and an increasing number of states are deciding to back off from prohibition. I’m pleased to introduce this bipartisan bill with Congressman Lieu to stop the use of civil forfeiture proceeds for this element of the federal government’s marijuana enforcement efforts." “Representatives Lieu and Amash should be commended for having the insight to understand our current approach isn’t working and the courage to do something about it,” said Dan Riffle, Director of Federal Policies, Marijuana Policy Project. “The Marijuana Policy Project wholeheartedly supports this sensible legislation and we look forward to helping to pass it.” "Rep Lieu has shown leadership on the cannabis eradication issue since championing an amendment earlier this year to slash funding to the program, and Rep Amash is a tireless opponent of the type of wasteful spending that the DEA symbolizes. Drug Policy Alliance is proud to support this bill," said Michael Collins, Policy Manager at Drug Policy Alliance's Office of National Affairs. ###
09.14.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in observance of the Rosh Hashanah holiday. “As our Jewish Community in Los Angeles County celebrates Rosh Hashanah and ushers in the Jewish New Year, we can all cherish the universal values of introspection, communal celebration, and new beginnings. As 5776 begins, we hope for a sweet new year that brings happiness, success, and peace to all. From my family to yours, L'shanah tovah." ###
09.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Representative Ted W. Lieu issued the following statement in response to the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) announcement on Friday that all charges against Professor Xi Xiaoxing, an American citizen, have been dropped. “I call upon the DOJ and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to investigate and stop what appears to be a pattern of arresting and indicting Americans based on their ethnicity rather than the evidence. There have been multiple cases of Americans—who happen to be of Chinese ethnicity—being arrested and charged for alleged spying or economic espionage, only to have those charges dropped. “As set forth in a letter to US Attorney General Loretta Lynch by a coalition of national Asian Pacific American organizations, the cases of Dr. Wen Ho Lee, Sherry Chen, Guoqing Cao, and Shuyi Li highlight overzealous charging, inflammatory rhetoric, and unfounded accusations by federal officials. “We now have another example of apparent discriminatory arrest and discriminatory charging by federal officials. About a dozen FBI agents, some with guns drawn, stormed Professor Xi Xiaoxing’s home in May and led him away in handcuffs while his wife and two daughters watched. Federal officials believed Professor Xi shared sensitive and restricted blueprints of a pocket heater with scientists in China. “It turns out the blueprints that Professor Xi shared were not for a pocket heater and were not sensitive or restricted. The Department of Justice dropped all charges last Friday. “Professor Xi’s lawyer, a former federal prosecutor, said ‘the authorities saw emails to scientists in China and assumed the worst. But … the emails represented the kind of international academic collaboration that governments and universities encourage.’ The former federal prosecutor also stated that if Professor Xi ‘was Canadian-American or French-American, or he was from the U.K., would this have ever even got on the government’s radar? I don’t think so.’[1] “On May 21, 2015, twenty-two Members of Congress wrote a letter to Attorney General Lynch asking her to investigate, in part, ‘whether there is any written or unwritten policy, program, pattern or practice of race (or other civil rights classifications such as religion, gender and national origin) being used by federal agencies in targeting federal employees for arrest, surveillance, security clearance denials or other adverse actions.’ “The perfunctory response from the DOJ was illuminating for what it did not say. The DOJ wrote: ‘No policy exists for using race or any other civil rights classification to “target federal employees for arrest, surveillance, security clearance denials or other adverse actions,” or for any other purpose.’ The DOJ’s letter did not address whether there was a pattern or practice of discriminatory targeting based on race, ethnicity or other civil rights classifications. “I will be sending a second letter requesting that DOJ investigate what appears to now be a pattern and practice of some federal prosecutors indicting Americans based primarily on race or ethnicity. I will also request that the FBI investigate whether some of its agents are engaging in a pattern or practice of arresting Americans based primarily on race or ethnicity (or other civil rights classifications). “If it was just one case in which federal officials arrest and indict an American for spying or espionage and then drop all charges, perhaps that can be called a mistake. But when it is multiple cases—all linked by the same fact that the Americans happened to be of Chinese ethnicity—then we have a constitutional and civil rights problem. Otherwise innocent actions do not become nefarious simply because the Americans taking those actions happened to have ethnic surnames. I look forward to working with the DOJ and the FBI to fix this disturbing problem.” ### [1] Matt Apuzzo, “U.S. Drops Charges That Professor Shared Technology With China,” New York Times, Sept. 11, 2015.
09.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 11, 2015 CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Washington DC - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement on the 14th Anniversary of the terror attacks on September 11, 2001. “Today, on the 14th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, my thoughts and prayers are with the families of the nearly 3,000 Americans lost that day—mothers and sons, fathers and daughters, husbands and wives, brothers and sisters. We will never forget the ultimate sacrifice that was forced upon them by terrorists targeting innocent civilians. “The courage of our women and men in uniform and the steely reserve of our first responders will never be forgotten as well. These brave Americans were first on the scene fourteen years ago in New York, Washington D.C. and Pennsylvania; their service and sacrifice is a permanent testament to the best angels of the American character. “It is important to remember, but more important to act. Congress needs to pass the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act to provide medical monitoring, care and compensation to 9/11 responders and survivors in all 50 states. Congress cannot allow these important programs to expire. We must take care of those who gave so much for our country.” ###
09.10.2015	Los Angeles – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) served as the Ranking Member of an Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing regarding significant failure issues with the U.S. Army’s Childcare Services Assistance Program. Gross mismanagement of the Army program, which was created to help military families pay for childcare, has caused unacceptably long backlogs in processing payments and severe hardships to thousands of military families. In addition, the hearing revealed that thousands of emails and voicemails by servicemembers and their spouses were intentionally deleted by the General Services Administration (GSA). It is Congressman Lieu’s view that the Army and the GSA must work together to immediately identify and put in place concrete measures to correct the program. Excerpts from the Congressman’s remarks as Ranking Member are below: “Mismanagement of the Army’s program to help military families pay for childcare has caused inexcusable backlogs in processing payments and unnecessary financial hardship to thousands of military families.” “Having served on active duty, and as a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force Reserves, and as a husband and father of two children, this issue hits particularly close to home for me.” “Together, the Army and GSA must take steps to eliminate the current backlog so that families are not needlessly faced with financial hardship to pay for childcare. I look forward to hearing a timetable today for how they plan to fix this program.” “As we learned from the Inspector General’s recent report, one family is now filing for bankruptcy as a result of subsidy payment delays. This is entirely unacceptable.” Congressman Lieu’s full remarks as Ranking member at today’s hearing can be found here. ###
09.10.2015	Opening Statement Rep. Ted Lieu House Oversight and Government Reform Hearing on “GSA: Army Fee Assistance” September 10, 2015 I commend you for calling this important hearing, and I want to thank your staff for working together in a bipartisan manner to provide oversight for a critical program directly impacting our military families. Having served on active duty, and as a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force Reserves, and as a husband and father of two children, this issue hits particularly close to home for me. The GSA’s Inspector General report shows that, with respect to childcare, the Army and GSA have failed our military families. Mismanagement of the Army’s program to help military families pay for childcare has caused inexcusable backlogs in processing payments and unnecessary financial hardship to thousands of military families. This program offers subsidies to help families pay for childcare when it is not available on post. Members of the military and their families sacrifice so much for the freedoms we enjoy in this country. In return, we owe it to them to fight for, and protect, the benefits they rely on and deserve. As we will hear from two of our witnesses today, flaws in the program’s administration have significant consequences for military families. Congress created this program on a bipartisan basis to help military families afford childcare. So it is fitting that our Committee is addressing these problems jointly. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 authorized the Department of Defense to provide financial assistance to eligible childcare providers who service military and federal employees. Those subsidies allow military families to save money on childcare costs. Prior to 2014, the program was jointly administered by the General Services Administration and Child Care Aware of America, a non-profit organization helping families identify high-quality, affordable childcare. GSA and CCA administered different components of the program, with GSA having responsibility for approximately 200 families and CCA servicing nearly 9,000 families. In 2014, in an effort to reduce costs, the Army consolidated the program’s administration under GSA, which promised annual savings of $4 million. However, this deal proved too good to be true. After assuming full responsibility for the program on October 1, 2014, GSA realized it had grossly underestimated the complexity and scope of the personnel and IT infrastructure needed to administer childcare subsidies for an additional 9,000 families. I have here a statement from Child Care Aware of America, the previous administrator of the contract. In January 2014, they were processing subsidy payments for all their program participants within the Army’s required ten day period. This is in contrast to GSA, which is now responsible for the program and whose own Inspector General reported earlier this week that GSA was taking up to seven months to process the payments. According to a previous report by the Inspector General this past April, by January 2015, GSA had developed “a significant backlog of over 11,500 childcare subsidy actionable items waiting processing.” On Tuesday, the Inspector General issued an updated report, finding that GSA officials had been on notice since 2011 that, and I quote, “GSA’s existing processes and personnel could not support a 9,000 family growth.” The report also found that prior to the transfer, GSA, and I quote, “did not perform a full needs assessment to determine what IT systems were necessary to accommodate the 45-fold increase.” As a result of those transition-planning deficiencies, the Army has had to spend an additional $4.4 million to keep the program afloat—above and beyond the original $4 million contract price. Because the significant backlog persists, and continues to grow, additional funding will likely be needed to correct serious flaws in the program’s administration. In addition to GSA’s shortcomings, there was, at minimum, inadequate Army oversight of the program’s transition planning and implementation, and perhaps a lack of due diligence in selecting GSA as the sole program administrator. In fact, we’ll hear today from Stephanie Hoehne, the top management for the Army’s program, who said in her written statement, and I quote, “The Army did not provide sufficient oversight to the transition for the risk involved, nor recognize the magnitude once the problem surfaced.” Going forward, the Army and GSA must immediately identify and implement concrete measures to correct these serious flaws. GSA, as the program administrator, and Army, as the program owner, share responsibility for ensuring the successful operation of the childcare Fee Assistance Program. Together, they must take steps to eliminate the current backlog so that families are not needlessly faced with financial hardship to pay for childcare. I look forward to hearing a timetable today for how they plan to fix this program. As we learned from the Inspector General’s recent report, one family is now filing for bankruptcy as a result of subsidy payment delays. This is entirely unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that GSA IG report’s findings that thousands of emails and voicemails from military personnel were deleted by GSA. Our nation’s military families deserve better. It is my hope that by continuing to work in a bipartisan manner, we can help get this program back on track. ###
09.09.2015	Contact: Jack D'Annibale | (202) 225-3976 WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu released his statement on the proposed Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Click here to view the full statement. ###
09.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 7, 2015 CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement to commemorate Labor Day on September 7, 2015. “This Labor Day, we celebrate and honor the American labor movement and the millions of hard-working men and women across our great country. At a time when unions and working families are still recovering from the Great Recession, and too many are struggling to put food on the table, this holiday is more important than ever. The strength of our economy depends on the strength of our working families. Unsurprisingly, the increase in income inequality in America is sharply correlated with the declining rate of union membership.” “Historically, labor unions have been the driving force for vital reforms to our country’s working conditions, including the forty hour work week, abolition of child labor, and implementation of a minimum wage. Before passage of the Fair Labor Standards Act in 1938, working men and women often met violent resistance for demanding basic human protections. We owe a great debt to these first champions of workers’ rights. In the tradition of great American labor leaders like Eugene Debs, Larry Itliong, Cesar Chavez, Samuel Gompers, and Mother Jones, we should continue the struggle by ensuring all workers are paid a livable wage and preventing unfair trade deals that push more American jobs overseas. When unions are strong – America is strong.” ###
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu issued the following statement in response to the United States Department of Justice’s announcement that it will begin requiring federal agents to obtain a warrant before using cell-site simulators. “The Department of Justice's new policy on cell-site simulators, or "Stingrays," is a welcome first step and will help bring an invasive surveillance technology closer to our constitutional privacy standards. As new technologies empower law enforcement with unique capabilities, stringent rules are needed to safeguard against abuse of our civil liberties – and Stingrays are no different. Many questions remain about law enforcement's collection of geolocation and other data, and I am going to ask the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to examine this issue.” ###
09.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 2, 2015 CONTACT: Marc Cevasco | marc.cevasco@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D – Los Angeles) announced that his office will conduct a public lottery to distribute tickets to see His Holiness Pope Francis during his visit to Washington, D.C. later this month. “On Thursday, September 24, 2015, His Holiness Pope Francis of the Holy See, will address a Joint Meeting of Congress in the Hall of the House of Representatives. This historic event will be among several stops Pope Francis will make while on his six-day tour of the United States. As a Member of the United States House of Representatives, I have received a limited number of tickets for constituents to stand and view the televised speech on jumbotrons on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol. Pope Francis’s visit will mark an important moment not only for Catholics but for all Americans, which is why I will be holding a lottery to distribute these tickets to constituents.” Residents of California’s 33rd Congressional District interested in entering the lottery will need to fill out and submit this form. Due to the limited number of tickets, winners may request no more than four tickets each, with one entry per person. Tickets must be picked up in person with a photo ID and signed for in our Washington D.C. office before the event, and pursuant to House rules may not be redistributed or sold for any reason. For security reasons, Rep. Lieu’s office will be unable to mail tickets to constituents or make any other special arrangements. Travel and accommodations will be at the winners’ expense. The deadline to enter is Tuesday, September 8 at 10AM Pacific Time. Winners of the lottery will be drawn and contacted directly with further instructions by Wednesday, September 9. For questions regarding the lottery, please contact the DC office at 202-225-3976. Having trouble viewing the form? Please copy and paste the following link into your browser: https://goo.gl/forms/kW56dwrGRl ###
09.01.2015	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement of new investments to enhance safety and security in the changing arctic: “I applaud President Obama for continuing to highlight the devastating effects of climate change in places such as the Alaskan Arctic. As President Obama has rightly said, we are the first generation to personally experience the impacts of climate change and the last with a chance to fix it.” “As one of the original coauthors of AB 32, the landmark California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, I am proud that California was one of the first states to take the lead and implement a comprehensive approach to combat climate change. With the Clean Power Plan, I am excited to see the rest of the nation begin to aggressively cut emissions and reverse the disastrous trends affecting our planet.” “The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) declared 2014 was the hottest year on record and that the first six months of 2015 are the hottest first of a half year on record. The time for arguments and debate has passed. Congress must act to fight climate change, and I look forward to supporting the implementation of the President’s Clean Power Plan. ###
08.31.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 31, 2015 CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Los Angeles - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles) presented United States Army World War II veteran David Hartman with several awards in recognition of his military service and accomplishments. Dr. Roger Hartman, David Hartman’s son and a constituent of California’s 33rd Congressional District, recently discovered his father did not have the relevant medals that were due to him for his combat service in WWII. When he contacted the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC) to request his father’s records, he was told they had burned in a fire back in 1973. After several unsuccessful attempts at seeking assistance, he contacted the office of Congressman Ted Lieu and a congressional inquiry was initiated. "I heard about Mr. Hartman’s situation and sent an inquiry directly to the U.S. Army”, said Congressman Lieu. “The Army investigated and was able to send over all of Mr. Hartman's awards, including the Bronze Star. America is the exceptional country it is today because of the courage of people like Mr. Hartman during our last World War. I am thankful for his service, dedication, and contributions to our nation.” David Hartman enlisted in the United States Army in 1942 and was stationed in Miami Beach, FL; Chanute Field, IL; and Fort Dix, NY prior to being sent to the United Kingdom. In 1944, he was sent to infantry rifleman training and was assigned to Company B of the 9th Armored Infantry Division, where he saw combat. Altogether, he served a total of 26 months overseas and received an Honorable Discharge with the rank of Private First Class from Company B, 13th Infantry, Army of the United States, in 1945 at Fort Dix. Congressman Lieu presented David Hartman with the United States Army’s Certificate of Military Service, the Combat Infantry Badge 1st award, the Honorable Service Lapel Button, the World War II Victory Medal, and the Bronze Star Medal. ### Congressman Ted W. Lieu serves on the House Committees on the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform. He is also the Democratic Freshman Class President and a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force Reserves.
08.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 26, 2015 CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in light of Jeb Bush’s racially charged comments regarding Asian immigrants. “In the same breath that Jeb Bush calls for Americans to ‘chill out’ on political correctness, he accuses Asian immigrants of engaging in an 'organized effort' to have 'anchor babies.' “Anyone who has served in elected office knows they have a duty to lead by example. Jeb Bush’s comments about Asian immigrants are a dangerous mischaracterization of an entire minority, plain and simple. It clearly doesn’t reflect my story. My parents immigrated to the United States to achieve the American dream. My parents went from being poor to owning a thriving small business. Their journey of hard work, sacrifice, success and contribution is as central to the American story as any other. “Unfortunately, Jeb’s insulting remarks about immigrants are matched by equally-insulting policy ideas. He has no viable plan for comprehensive immigration reform. He wants to repeal our national health care law that's protecting millions of Americans and his big idea to grow the economy is to offer corporations more tax cuts. “It is sad to think this all comes from the moderate Republican presidential candidate. Jeb Bush is trapped by an influential Tea Party that continues to advocate for policies that help the few at the expense of the many. My fellow Democrats and I are fighting for something different – an America that cherishes and works for everyone." ###
08.25.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 25, 2015 CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement following the news that The Boeing Company is laying off workers at its El Segundo facility. Boeing is reducing employment in its satellite manufacturing businesses through the remainder of 2015. “Today’s news regarding Boeing layoffs in El Segundo is disappointing and frustrating. My heart goes out to the honest, hardworking families who will be affected. Last month, Boeing announced that AsiaBroadcast was terminating a satellite contract with the company because they couldn't get a financing backstop from the U.S. Export-Import Bank. This work would have been done in El Segundo, with a value of approximately $130 million. Today’s announcement of layoffs at Boeing in El Segundo underscores how House Republicans’ decision to shut down the Export-Import Bank is a complete and utter abrogation of their responsibility to act on behalf of the American people. The shutdown of the bank is having devastating impacts on California’s 33rd district, as well as communities from coast to coast. “Hardworking Americans at Boeing’s El Segundo facility, at plants and companies across our nation, deserve much, much better than to have their livelihoods jeopardized by the most cynical kind of partisan politics practiced by Tea Party Republicans. My fellow House Democrats and I will continue to fight for an urgent re-authorization of the Export-Import Bank and for additional bold, progressive economic solutions that protect and expand the backbone of the American economy – the middle-class.” ###
08.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 21, 2015 Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) issued the following statement on the Youth Mental Health Protection Act, which was passed by the Illinois state legislature on May 29 and signed into law yesterday by Governor Bruce Rauner. The Act, which was sponsored by Illinois State Representative Kelly Cassidy, forbids mental health providers from practicing so-called “conversion therapy” on children under 18. By preventing conversion therapists from falsely advertising that they can successfully change someone’s sexual orientation, this legislation is also the first law to be enacted on either the state or national level that contains direct protections for consumers from the inherently fraudulent nature of the conversion therapy industry. Illinois joins several other states in restricting the practice of conversion therapy, including California, Oregon, New Jersey, and Washington, D.C. While serving in the California State Senate, Congressman Lieu authored the first statewide ban on efforts to change the sexual orientation or gender identity of minors. Earlier this year, he introduced H.R. 2450, the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act, which is the first federal bill to ban conversion therapy. “I am delighted to learn that Illinois has banned “conversion therapy” on children under 18. I applaud Representative Kelly Cassidy and her supporters in Illinois for their historic work on the Youth Mental Health Protection Act. Only three years after California first banned conversion therapy, incredible progress has been made in the fight to protect the LGBT community from being defrauded and shamed by its practitioners. However, despite the fact that conversion therapy has been proven to be ineffective and dangerous, providers are still able to earn enormous profits by preying on LGBT Americans and their families. I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to pass a federal ban on for-profit conversion therapy that will end this hazardous, bogus practice in America once and for all.” ###
08.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 20, 2015 Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) joined leaders of the LAX Coastal Chamber of Commerce to talk economic growth, innovation and entrepreneurism at the Chamber’s annual membership meeting. The mission of the LAX Coastal Chamber of Commerce is to promote business and enhance the vitality of the community through member services, educational programs, strategic partnerships, community outreach and legislative advocacy. Representatives from The Boeing Company were co-hosts of the event as well. After the event, Congressman Lieu issued the following statement: “The mission of the LAX Chamber of Commerce – to empower and grow businesses in Westchester/LAX, Marina Del Rey, Playa Vista, Playa Del Rey, and surrounding beach cities – underscores the fact that we can't fund important programs if we don't have strong businesses doing well in California. Since I arrived in Washington D.C. in January to succeed the legendary Henry Waxman, I have been fighting to create opportunities for the South Bay including financing more exports and keeping our tech, aerospace and biotech industries strong. I am also an unwavering advocate of creating new jobs by reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank and passing long term funding for the Highway Trust Fund. I greatly look forward to working with the LAX Chamber to promote and grow business in the South Bay and beyond.” ###
08.18.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) released the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s release of common sense standards to cut methane emissions from the oil and gas sector. “The Environmental Protection Agency’s release of new methane emissions standards is welcome news. For years, our fossil energy suppliers have wasted methane by burning off enough during co-extraction to heat 5 million homes. Whatever methane was not burned off was then released into the atmosphere rather than put to productive use as an energy source. As if wasting energy is not enough, methane is a greenhouse gas, so burn-offs and releases have amounted to nearly 25% of all greenhouse gasses emitted into the environment. These wasteful practices have significantly accelerated climate change. I commend the EPA for stepping in to drastically reduce the release of methane to ensure that we do not waste precious energy resources.” ###
08.14.2015	Los Angeles - On the 80th anniversary of Social Security, Congressman Ted Lieu issued the following statement: "I join with millions of Americans to celebrate the 80th anniversary of Social Security. While poverty for seniors in this country is still an issue, Social Security has served as a reliable safety net for all seniors. Over 112,338 older Americans and people with disabilities in California’s 33rd Congressional District and 22 million nationwide receive Social Security. For 90% of retirees and 70% of disability recipients it is their primary source of income. Social Security, if managed effectively, can serve every generation that has paid into it from my parent’s generation to that of my children. Unfortunately, our Republican colleagues are trying to make it sound like our Social Security Trust fund is going bankrupt, despite having a $2.8 trillion dollar surplus, and are trying to slip in cuts and privatize the program. For my parents, my children and all Americans, I have pledged to do all I can to oppose Republican cuts to the benefits we have all paid for and preserve this program for generations to come." ###
08.13.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in the wake of the latest U.S. airstrikes in Syria. “Yesterday, the United States started conducting manned airstrikes from Incirlik Air Base in Turkey against ISIL targets in Syria. I opposed the prior use of military force in Syria and I oppose these new airstrikes. I remain concerned that the Administration has yet to put forward a comprehensive strategy for the conflict in Syria and that Congress has yet to authorize this use of force. That is why I voted in favor of an amendment earlier this year by Representatives Barbara Lee, Jim McGovern, and Walter Jones to withdraw US forces from Syria and Iraq due to the absence of congressional authorization. We should not be risking American lives and wasting taxpayer dollars by continuing to intervene militarily in a complicated war halfway across the world without adequately explaining to the American people why we are doing so." ###
08.12.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) issued a statement following a visit by Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James to Los Angeles Air Force Base (LA AFB). LA AFB is located in California’s 33rd Congressional District and is where Congressman Lieu performs his Air Force Reserve duty. “Earlier this year I invited Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James to visit Los Angeles Air Force Base to see the unique role the base plays in America's national security. I am honored Secretary James made the trip out to Los Angeles Air Force Base today. We had a productive visit and she was able to see the base’s unique ability, located in the South Bay aerospace cluster, to carry out the mission of the Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC). “I was also thrilled the Secretary received a demonstration of the Plug-in Electric Vehicle fleet and the Vehicle-to-Grid program, the first-of-its-kind in the nation. Los Angeles takes immense pride that LA AFB is leading the charge in lowering carbon emissions while helping to stabilize the electric grid, and I commend the Air Force and SMC Commander Lieutenant General Samuel Greaves on moving forward with this innovative program.” ### Congressman Ted W. Lieu serves on the House Committees on the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform. He is also the Democratic Freshman Class President and a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force Reserves.
08.10.2015	Los Angeles - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) issued the following statement regarding the July 22 letter from Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Inspector General (IG) Patrick McFarland to OPM Acting Director Beth Cobert stating that the Office of the Chief Information Officer has “hindered and interfered with” his office’s oversight. “I find this latest red flag from the OPM Inspector General very troubling. It is unacceptable that the Office of the Chief Information Officer should ever be accused of hindering and interfering with the IG’s investigations. Those accusations are especially concerning when the agency is still in the wake of a massive data breach involving the theft of security clearance data affecting 21.5 million people. While the incidents cited by the IG occurred prior to the tenure of Acting Director Cobert, I believe this once again underscores that OPM is not adequately equipped to protect the crown jewels of our U.S. national security personnel.” ###
08.10.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - Los Angeles), released the following statement on Super Typhoon Soudelor: “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Saipan, Taiwan, China and all those affected by this devastating storm. While it is fortunate that so few lives were lost, our sympathies are with those who lost loved ones, homes and businesses." "Many in the Taiwanese-American community here in the United States are still waiting to hear on the status from family and friends affected by this storm. We stand with you in support during this uncertain time and hope for good news." ###
08.06.2015	For Immediate Release: August 6, 2015 | Contact: Marc Cevasco, 202-225-3976 Washington—Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer and Representative Ted Lieu (all D-Calif.) today called on the House and Senate Veterans Affairs Committees to facilitate housing for homeless and disadvantaged veterans at the West Los Angeles VA campus. The lawmakers provided the committees with a plan to allow the Department of Veterans Affairs to work with local governments and non-profits to enter into long-term lease agreements to provide supportive housing. The plan, which the VA supports, contains significant safeguards to prevent future mismanagement of the campus, including a prohibition on selling property for private gain. Past mismanagement was the subject of a 2011 lawsuit settled earlier this year. The lawmakers wrote: “There is a critical need for long-term supportive housing on the West Los Angeles Campus, and enhanced use leases would allow the department to work with community and state organizations toward the goal of ending veteran homelessness in Los Angeles.” Full text of the letter follows: August 6, 2015 The Honorable Johnny Isakson Chairman Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Jeff Miller Chairman House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Richard Blumenthal Ranking Member Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Corrine Brown Ranking Member House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen and Ranking Members, As the committee prepares legislation to authorize Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Department of Veterans Affairs programs and projects, we ask that the committee include the attached legislative authority to allow the department to work with local governments and non-profits to provide additional housing and services for homeless and disadvantaged veterans at the West Los Angeles Campus. The department recently reached a historic agreement to end the lawsuit brought against it by the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, and is in the process of creating a new Master Plan to ensure the campus fully serves the needs of all veterans in Southern California. To support these efforts, and prevent future mismanagement our attached legislation does the following: First, it gives the department authority to enter into enhanced use leases for the West Los Angeles Campus for the sole purpose of providing supportive housing. This authority is coupled with a much-needed prohibition against selling, or in any other way disposing of, property for private development and private gain, which was contemplated in the past. We also included this prohibition in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008, to protect portions of the campus from being sold to private entities. There is a critical need for long-term supportive housing on the West Los Angeles Campus, and enhanced use leases would allow the department to work with community and state organizations toward the goal of ending veteran homelessness in Los Angeles. As you may be aware, Los Angeles is home to the largest population of homeless veterans in the country, which is simply unacceptable. Second, our legislative text provides leasing authority for the West Los Angeles Campus in order to bring in community partners, such as the University of California – Los Angeles, to provide services that benefit veterans and help make the campus a veteran-centric community setting. We support giving the department this authority, but believe it should be restricted to providing critical benefits for veterans, including homeless, disabled, aging and women veterans. We remain deeply concerned about the department’s historic track record, particularly at this campus, and have coupled these leasing authorities with the following strong oversight and accountability mechanisms: All leases must be consistent with the new Master Plan under development, with community input, that will detail how the campus will be used to benefit all veterans; Office of Inspector General (OIG) audit reports on lease and land-use management of the West Los Angeles Campus will be required to be issued two years following enactment of this legislative text, five years following enactment, and then as necessary; The department will be prohibited from entering into new leases during any periods where it is found by the OIG to be out of compliance with federal policy or law pertaining to leases and land-use on the campus, until the department certifies it has corrected any non-compliance or mismanagement. This authority will also apply to renewing specific leases found to be out of compliance with federal law or policy; and; The department will be required to notify the Senate and House Veterans’ Affairs Committees and the Congressional Delegation for the campus 45 days before entering into or renewing any lease, and submit an annual report evaluating all leases and land-sharing agreements on the campus. We look forward to working with you to provide the department the authority, coupled with Congressional oversight, needed to improve how the West Los Angeles Campus serves veterans. Sincerely, Dianne Feinstein United States Senator Barbara Boxer United States Senator Ted W. Lieu United States Representative ###
08.03.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement of support for President Obama’s Clean Power Plan (CPP). The CPP would place the first ever limits on carbon pollution from our nation’s power sector; the reductions from the CPP are also critical to meeting the U.S. emission reduction target of 26-28% by 2025, which is the foundation of the U.S. contribution to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change negotiations that are being held in Paris in December. The CPP could be released by the Environmental Protection Agency as early as Monday. “I stand in strong support of President Obama’s Clean Power Plan. Every day we hear disturbing new facts about the state of our planet – 2014 was the hottest year on record, atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide surpassed 400 parts per million for a whole month for the first time in at least 800,000 years, etc. My state of California is facing one of its most severe droughts in history. Already, this past June was the hottest recorded June. “Now is the time for bold reductions in carbon pollution. Close to 44 percent of the nation lives in close proximity to dangerous pollution, making every breath a risk. Unsurprisingly, the asthma rate in Americans has more than doubled in the past thirty years. Yesterday, the Department of Defense issued a new report to Congress emphasizing the dangerous consequences for America’s national security due to climate change. “We must act together to support the Clean Power Plan, and House Republicans should stop their endless attacks against it. History books will one day say that America led the way on addressing climate change and saving our planet – or there will be no history books. I applaud President Obama’s leadership on this issue, and I look forward to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) releasing the final rule soon.” ###
07.30.2015	“I celebrate the anniversary honoring some of the most important programs America has ever created – Medicare and Medicaid. With their landmark passage in 1965, our country firmly took the position that the most vulnerable in our society should not live in poverty because of a lack of health insurance. “Before Medicare, seniors were the most likely group to be in poverty, with almost 30 percent of seniors living below the poverty line. Today, less than 1 in 10 seniors live below the poverty line (still too high but much better than before Medicare) and almost all seniors have health coverage. “We must not stop here. Today, 11.4 percent of American adults are still without healthcare coverage, and children are now the group most likely to be living in poverty. Every American, regardless of age or income, should have access to health insurance. Let this important anniversary remind us of the progress we have made, and be a wakeup call for the unfinished work we have yet to do. “Finally, my parents depend on Medicare. There is no way I would ever eliminate this program. In fact, we need to expand Medicare and Medicaid.” ###
07.29.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement regarding his participation in an upcoming congressional delegation trip to Israel. “Next week, I will be taking part in the biannual, bipartisan congressional delegation trip to Israel. I want to thank Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy for once again leading this trip for freshman Members of Congress. It’s going to be a busy week as my colleagues and I participate in a number of meetings with Israeli and Palestinian political leaders, policy experts, entrepreneurs, and social advocates. As President of the House Democratic Freshman Class, I am looking forward to my first trip to Israel as a Member of Congress. I previously visited Israel in 2007 with the Jewish Federation as a Member of the California State Assembly. “I believe it is critical for Members of Congress to learn more about America’s allies. As a Member of the House Budget Committee, I along with other Democrats have been strong supporters of foreign aid. I want to make sure American tax dollars are being used wisely. California’s 33rd Congressional District is also home to companies that have provided significant technology to Israel that has protected Israel from harm. I look forward to learning more about one of America’s closest allies and gaining a deeper understanding of security challenges in the region, such as the plight of Syrian Civil War victims and the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.” ###
07.28.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in opposition to the REINS Act (H.R. 427). The REINS Act is a radical, potentially unconstitutional House Republican-authored bill that guts the ability of federal agencies to establish rules protecting food safety, clear air, clean water and other crucial common-sense safeguards. The Reins Act is strongly opposed by a broad range of consumer, health, environmental, labor, scientific, and public interest groups. “I strongly oppose H.R. 427, the so-called Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2015. This bill is a blatant attempt by House Republicans to create another hurdle for the Administration to protect the environment and to act boldly on a foremost issue of our time – combating climate change. Under the Clean Air Act, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will soon implement the final rule of the Clean Power Plan, a critical rule to protect the environment and public health and to strongly curb climate change-inducing pollution. The REINS Act would implement a new hurdle for the EPA to implement this crucial rule. This is an unnecessary, dangerous piece of legislation, and I hope my colleagues will oppose.” ###
07.27.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1599, the so-called “Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act,” otherwise known as the “Deny Americans the Right to Know” or “DARK” Act. This misguided legislation makes labeling genetically modified organisms (GMOs) voluntary and preempts states from regulating labeling for foods containing GMOs. “Today I cast my vote against the passage of H.R. 1599. I have always supported requiring food producers to provide information that enables consumers to make informed decisions. This includes providing information as to whether or not the food they purchase contains GMOs. By refusing to require labeling of GMO foods and preempting states from doing otherwise, this bill keeps consumers in the dark.” ###
07.23.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement on the introduction of the Equality Act, the first comprehensive non-discrimination bill protecting LGBT Americans. Congressman Lieu is an original cosponsor of the legislation. The Equality Act expands the Civil Rights Act of 1965 to include protections against discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity in education, housing, employment, credit, federal funding, jury service, and public accommodations. “As a Vice Chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus, I am proud to stand with Congressman Cicilline and the rest of the Caucus to support the Equality Act,” said Congressman Lieu. “This landmark piece of legislation will eliminate gaps in federal law that currently allow discrimination and harassment based on sexual orientation and gender identity. Although the Supreme Court’s decision last month in Obergefell v. Hodges was a huge victory for LGBT rights, there is much work left to be done. The discriminatory reactions to the legalization of marriage equality nationwide have demonstrated the urgent need for comprehensive legislation to prevent discrimination against the LGBT community. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to pass the Equality Act to ensure that all Americans are protected under the law and cherished under a fundamental principle: love is love.” ###
07.22.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued a statement after the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform unanimously passed the Quarterly Financial Report Reauthorization Act (H.R. 3116). This legislation was introduced by Congressman Lieu and reauthorizes the Department of Commerce’s Quarterly Financial Report (QFR) program – a principal economic indicator set to expire on September 30 – for 15 years. Conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, the QFR collects data from a sample of 12,500 companies in industries such as manufacturing, mining, trade and selected service industries. The program has existed uninterrupted since 1947. QFR data is a vital tool in tracking the health and growth of the American economy and is used by businesses, financial analysts, trade associations, banks and government agencies. Numerous public and private sector actors wrote statements of support to the U.S. Census Bureau for the program’s reauthorization, including the Small Business Administration, Wells Fargo and ProQuest. The Department of Commerce has stated this program is a top priority and one of the U.S. Census Bureau’s most important economic indicator programs. “Whether you’re in the public or private sector, you can’t make good decisions without good data,” said Congressman Ted Lieu. “Since the end of World War II, the Quarterly Financial Report has been uniquely able to provide that data, serving as a closely-watched economic indicator that helps form the basis of our Gross Domestic Product and other national estimates. As we continue to chart our economic recovery, we need all the tools at our disposal to measure to state of our economy. I look forward to this bill being brought to the House floor for a quick vote.” ###
07.17.2015	Pelosi and Lieu were joined by local Los Angeles County leaders to discuss ways to grow the economy, create jobs through vital expanded transportation & infrastructure funding #RebuildRenew Santa Monica, CA – Today, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Congressman Ted W. Lieu hosted a press conference this morning to discuss the urgent need for expanded, long-term infrastructure investment in Santa Monica, Los Angeles and cities across America. At the California Incline reconstruction site, Leader Pelosi and Rep. Lieu were joined by Santa Monica Mayor Kevin McKeown, Supervisor Sheila Kuehl, Ron Miller, Executive Secretary of LA/OC Building trades, Phil Washington, CEO of METRO, Rusty Hicks, Executive Secretary – Treasurer of LA County Federation of Labor, Delfidio Carpio, Project Superintendent, MCM Construction and Jeff McDermott, Project Manager, MCM Construction. The California Incline site is a perfect example of how local, state and federal investment is creating local jobs, boosting the economy and paving the way for vastly improved infrastructure in Santa Monica, Los Angeles and beyond. The Grow America Act was also discussed at length at today’s event. The House Democrat legislation would authorize President Barack Obama’s long-term, six-year transportation plan, providing $478 billion over that period to rebuild America’s infrastructure. (Grow America Act factsheet.) Leader Nancy Pelosi’s statement on today’s event: “In just a few short months in Congress, Ted Lieu has already distinguished himself as a leading voice for revitalizing the infrastructure of our cities and communities,” said Leader Pelosi. “Now is the time to make the big, bold investments in infrastructure that America needs to compete and succeed in the 21st century. With Democrats’ Grow America Act, we can make a robust, long-term commitment to rebuilding America – creating jobs, and unlocking a brighter future for our country.” Congressman Ted Lieu’s statement: “The steel in the spine of the American economy was forged by the middle class. A fundamental way to energize the middle class, to rebuild and renew our nation is by making a robust, long-term commitment to infrastructure investment. Such long-term investment, embodied by the Grow America Act, creates millions of jobs that cannot be outsourced, expands the economy, and rebuilds the infrastructure that America needs to continue as the leader of the 21st century global economy.” Mayor Kevin McKeown’s statement: “Stable, ongoing federal funding is crucial to Santa Monica's ability to deliver the infrastructures improvements our residents depend upon. Congressman Lieu and Leader Pelosi are our champions in making sure Santa Monica can build a better future with federal funds.” Photos from today’s press conference | Video from today’s press conference ###
07.16.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 CONGRESSMAN LIEU STATEMENT ON NOAA CLIMATE REPORT Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) keynoted Generation Progress’s Climate Panel at the Make Progress National Summit of 2015. His address, coinciding with today’s release of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)’s State of the Climate Report, was a call to action for our nation and the United States Congress to act now to combat climate change. “NOAA’s State of the Climate Report confirmed that 2014 was the hottest year on record and that greenhouse gases have reached new record highs. This follows a series of alarming occurrences happening across the globe. Recently, atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide surpassed 400 parts per million for a whole month for the first time in at least 800,000 years. And, as we know, California is facing one of its most severe droughts in history. “It is urgent that Congress act now. I am grateful to Generation Progress and the Center for American Progress for inviting me to be their keynote speaker. Together, we must build a nationwide movement to tackle climate change. We must reach a point in our political dialogue where it is no longer deemed acceptable to deny climate change. I urge House Republicans to stop their relentless legislative attacks on the environment and pass real solutions to climate change, such as my Climate Solutions Act. We hold the answers for saving our planet and reversing the current, devastating trends, and together we can succeed.” ###
07.15.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 CONGRESSMAN LIEU STATEMENT ON AGREEMENT WITH IRAN Congressman Ted Lieu issued the following statement on today’s announcement of an agreement between the P5+1 and Iran on its nuclear program. "As Congress starts the clock on 60 days of review and oversight, I plan to comb through the text, listen to the views of my constituents and speak to key stakeholders to evaluate whether the agreement meets a singular criterion: Are we safer both in the short term, and 8, 10 and 15 years from now? Many of the most critical provisions in this agreement expire. I will be paying particular attention to whether inspectors have the robust access they need to verify compliance, whether the dispute settlement mechanism is adequately designed to address violations, and whether the type and pace of sanctions relief is appropriately conditioned on compliance. In addition, while the arms embargo and ballistic missile sanctions are not lifted immediately, it is my understanding they will be lifted in 5 years and 8 years. This last minute concession gives Iran the ability to use the hundreds of billions of dollars it will receive during the course of this agreement to engage in more arms trafficking and ballistic missile development. I would like to express my appreciation for the tireless efforts of the entire U.S. negotiating team to find a diplomatic resolution to one of the greatest national security challenges we face. However, I have no illusions about a regime that has deceived the international community, sponsored international terrorism, led chants of “Death to America,” and repeatedly called for the destruction of the Jewish State of Israel. My preference is always for diplomatic solutions. As a citizen of the world who hopes to still be here in 15 years, I view this vote as a responsibility of enormous magnitude. Again, my primary concern is not just for the short term, but also for the long term, and I will examine the deal in that context." ### ###
07.14.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 CONGRESSMAN LIEU STATEMENT ON TODAY’S MEETING WITH HILLARY CLINTON Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement after he and his fellow Executive Board Members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) met with former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to discuss pressing domestic and foreign policy issues impacting the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. “I want to thank former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for meeting with CAPAC today. Hillary has always been a champion for all families. My fellow CAPAC members and I engaged in a robust discussion with Hillary and her staff on crucial issues ranging from immigration to veterans to higher education. I also greatly appreciate Hillary’s attention to racial profiling and criminal justice reform, and was grateful to have the chance to discuss these vital issues with her. Finally, my CAPAC colleagues and I had the opportunity to hear about Hillary’s vision to expand economic opportunity for all Americans. Hillary’s vision for an American economy that works for all illuminates a fundamental truth: it is the middle class that drives our economy.” ###
07.10.2015	Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) launched his first ever Congressional photo contest inviting constituents of California’s 33rd District to submit photos of their favorite places located in the District. Photos can be submitted through Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram by tagging @RepTedLieu and using the hashtag #MyCA33. Photos will be selected from each city/neighborhood in the District and will be featured/credited on the Congressman’s website and social media pages. Photographers will also be invited to meet Congressman Lieu in-person.“California’s 33rd District has so much to offer. With all our beautiful beaches, vast mountains, hiking trails, countless options for delicious food, schools, festivals, parks, parades, and numerous activities to do, anyone can see that it’s one of the best districts to live in the nation! Constituents will be able to share what they love most about the 33rd through their lens and their vision. I am excited to see what people love most about their hometown.”Contest Guidelines: 1.) Follow and tag @RepTedLieu on Facebook, Twitter, And Instagram and use the hashtag #MyCA33 to automatically enter the contest and submit your photo 2.) Photos must be of places located within California’s 33rd District Not sure where the 33rd is? Cities/Neighborhoods include: Agoura Hills, Bel Air Estates and Beverly Glen, Beverly Hills, Brentwood, Calabasas, El Segundo, Fairfax District, Hermosa Beach, Holmby Hills, Harbor City, Hancock Park/Larchmont, Northwest San Pedro, Torrance, Miracle Mile, Manhattan Beach, Marina del Rey, Pacific Palisades, Park La Brea, Palos Verdes Estates, Playa del Rey, Rancho Palos Verdes, Redondo Beach, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Santa Monica, Santa Monica Mountains communities and parks, Topanga, University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), VA Campus, Venice, and Westwood Winners will be selected from each city – there will be multiple winners! 3.) Photos should be submitted by the photographer, with the location of where the photo was taken 4.) Winners will be selected from each city and community in the District and will be invited to meet the Congressman in-person. Photos will be featured and credited on the Congressman’s website and social media pages.5.) Contest begins July 10 and ends July 19 – winners will be announced on July 24 and will be selected by Congressman Lieu and his staff
07.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 10, 2015 CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-225-3976 Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement following the news that OPM Director Katherine Archuleta has resigned. “I appreciate Katherine Archuleta’s service to our nation. With today’s news, it’s clear that OPM along with the rest of the federal government must immediately turn a page and make cyber security a top, urgent priority. I came to Congress to find solutions to the foremost challenges facing our nation and I look forward to working with the Administration and the new Director at OPM to improve our cyber security. The massive security clearance breach also shows that OPM is not the proper agency to protect the crown jewels of American intelligence. OPM was never designed to be an intelligence or national security agency. We should not be trying to fit a square into a round hole. That’s why Congressman Steve Russell and I are working on legislation to move the security clearance system out of OPM.” ###
07.09.2015	Washington - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA|33) and Congressman Steve Russell (R-OK|5) issued statements in response to the news that the personal information of 25 million Americans was stolen in the recent hack of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). As members of the Oversight & Government Reform Committee, Congressmen Lieu and Russell have participated in two full committee hearings on the OPM breach. Lieu and Russell have also both personally filled out and previously submitted SF-86 forms. Congressman Lieu’s statement: "The failure by the Office of Personnel Management to prevent hackers from stealing security clearance forms containing the most private information of 25 million Americans significantly imperils our national security. Tragically, this cyber breach was likely preventable. The Inspector General identified multiple vulnerabilities in OPM’s security clearance system--year after year--that OPM failed to address. Even now, OPM still does not prioritize cybersecurity. The IG testified just yesterday that OPM ‘has not historically, and still does not, prioritize IT security.’ The IG further testified that there is a ‘high risk’ of failure on a going forward basis at OPM. The security clearance system was previously housed at the Department of Defense. In hindsight, it was a mistake to move the security clearance system to OPM in 2004. We need to correct that mistake. Congressman Steve Russell and I are working on bipartisan legislation to move the security clearance database out of OPM into another agency that has a better grasp of cyber threats. Steve and I have previously submitted SF-86 security clearance forms. We personally understand the national security crisis this cyber breach has caused. Every American affected by the OPM security clearance breach deserves and demands a new way forward in protecting their most private information and advancing the vital security interests of the United States." Congressman Russell’s statement: “It is bad enough that the dereliction displayed by OPM led to 25 million Americans’ records being compromised, but to continue to deflect responsibility and accountability is sad. In her testimony a few weeks ago, OPM Director Katherine Archuleta said that they did not encrypt their files for fear they could be decrypted. This is no excuse for a cyber breach, and is akin to gross negligence. We have spent over a half a trillion dollars in information technology, and are effectively throwing it all away when we do not protect our assets. OPM has proven they are not up to the task of safeguarding our information, a responsibility that allows for no error. I look forward to working with Congressman Lieu on accountability and reform of this grave problem.” ###
07.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 8, 2015 CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-225-3976 Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Lieu, joined by Congresswoman Bass (CA-37) hosted a meeting in Washington, DC between their constituents and senior Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) officials. This meeting followed an invitation to meet, which was made at the March 24 Santa Monica City Council meeting. Attendees at the meeting included Santa Monica Mayor Kevin McKeown, Santa Monica Mayor Pro Tempore Tony Vazquez, Santa Monica Councilmember Sue Himmelrich and sixteen other CA-33 constituents who flew to Washington, DC from Los Angeles. After the meeting, Congressman Lieu made the following statement: “The serious safety, environmental, and health concerns of the Santa Monica Airport date back for several decades. After a meeting with the FAA was announced, my office received over one thousand comment forms from constituents citing the everyday risks they face as they go about their lives. Whether it is a mother concerned about her child suffering from lead exposure, a husband worried about his wife’s asthma, or families simply trying to sleep at night, the problems my constituents face on a daily basis are real and hazardous. I am grateful to my constituents for flying all the way to Washington, DC to take part in this meeting, and I thank the FAA for agreeing to listen to them. Today was a productive meeting where each attendee personally shared their story with the FAA face to face. I hope that the FAA will heed the concerns brought forth today and work to address the issues.” Additional Statements: “As Mayor, my primary responsibility is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of Santa Monica. Santa Monica Airport endangers our residents and our resources. What was once a grass landing strip in the midst of bean fields is now often described as “an aircraft carrier in a sea of homes.” The exceptionally close proximity of the runway and residents’ homes presents unacceptable safety risks.” --Kevin McKeown, Mayor of Santa Monica, California “I have been involved with addressing SMO's negative impacts for more than 15 years. Air quality studies have monitored very high levels of SMO aircraft pollutants within the downwind Los Angeles community of North Westdale where homes are located less than 300 feet from the jet blast. Please understand that this is a critical public health concern that deserves immediate attention. I thank Congressman Lieu for his leadership on this issue. “ --Marty Rubin, Director, Concerned Residents Against Airport Pollution "We are extremely grateful to Congressman Lieu for leading the charge on this pivotal meeting with the FAA. He has walked the neighborhoods and smelled the fumes. Our neighbor to neighbor grassroots effort brought in considerably more than our goal of 1000 highly personal comments from concerned residents of Santa Monica and Los Angeles. A three mile radius of affected adults and children are exposed to known heath risks from ultra fines, lead and extreme noise from an airport that does not meet the FAAs own safety standards. Large jets and turboprops should not be taking off and landing over a densely populated neighborhood with a runway less than 300’ from homes. There is no way to make the surrounding community safe under current operation. Since the FAA is not willing to scale this airport way back, then they need to let it go.” --Alan Levenson, NO JETS Santa Monica Airport “The Santa Monica Airport poses an acute danger to the residents around it, proven by the multiple plane crashes that have occurred over the years. I thank Congressman Lieu for setting up this meeting so that we could personally inform the FAA of the serious problems posed by the airport.” --Joseph Schmitz, PhD, Member of Santa Monica Airport Commission More photos from the meeting can be found here. ###
07.07.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 Los Angeles - Today, during debate on H.R. 2822, the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Congressman Raul Grijalva (AZ-3) introduced an amendment to strike section 120 of the act. Section 120 prohibits funds from being used to restrict the illegal ivory trade in the United States. Congressman Lieu made the following statement in support of the Grijalva amendment and the effort to strike section 120. “Every day, 96 African elephants are killed by poachers for their highly valued ivory. With only a few hundred thousand of these elephants remaining, this illegal practice imperils their very existence. The illegal ivory trade is not only a wildlife protection issue but a security issue as well, since this illicit practice attracts a number of criminal organizations – like Al-Shabaab – who generate funds to carry out terrorist activities by trading in illegal ivory. As one of the largest markets for illegal ivory, the United States has a responsibility to support measures to stop the illegal ivory trade. Last year, US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) announced its Director’s Order No. 210 to clarify how it would implement existing regulations. This was a first step in tightening ivory controls. USFWS is prepared to announce a proposed rule regarding the African elephant this year. This rule will likely strengthen ivory controls to better address trafficking. However, the current Department of Interior appropriations bill undermines the progress USFWS has made. Section 120 ignores the ongoing slaughter of African elephants. Rather than weakening tools to combat the illegal ivory trade, we should be implementing smart and effective controls. It is also imprudent to disrupt a USFWS proposed rule before it is even announced. USFWS has shown an interest in heeding the concerns of business owners and other individuals who already possess ivory. We should allow for the announcement of the service’s rule and for the implementation of last year’s order. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the Grijalva amendment to help end the illegal trafficking of ivory and to protect African elephants.” ###
06.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 29, 2015 CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-225-3976 WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D | Los Angeles) sent a letter to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) asking that they release the proposed rule, General and Plastic Surgery Devices: Restriction of Sunlamp Products (RIN 0910-AH14), for public comment as soon as possible. The rule, which was submitted to OMB by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA), would further regulate tanning beds. The letter was co-led by the co-chairs of the Congressional Skin Cancer Caucus, Representatives Carolyn Maloney, David Joyce, Charlie Dent, Jim Cooper, and Representative Rosa DeLauro. In addition, twelve other members of Congress signed the letter, bringing the total signatures to eighteen. “For many years I have worked to regulate and restrict tanning bed access, helping make California the first state in the nation to ban underage tanning bed use. The new tanning bed regulations submitted by FDA to OMB are critical in the fight to eradicate skin cancer, and I hope the rule will be released soon. “ --Congressman Ted Lieu "The American Academy of Dermatology applauds Representative Lieu and the Congressional Skin Cancer Caucus for their work to protect Americans from the harms associated with indoor tanning. Skin cancer rates continue to rise, and as dermatologists we have seen the devastating effects that indoor tanning has had on our patients. It's time for OMB to release the rule for public comment as the next step in alleviating our nation's skin cancer burden." --Dr. Mark Lebwohl, President, American Academy of Dermatology Association “Tanning devices pose a considerable health threat, especially to the millions of young women and adolescents who use them regularly,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT). The FDA has rightly reclassified sunlamps as the dangerous, cancer-causing enablers they are, but we need to do more, including banning their use for people under age 18. I strongly urge OMB Director Donovan to release the proposed rule immediately so more people will be better informed of their dangers.” --Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro “Thanks to the FDA, every tanning bed now has a warning label explaining the risks to those under 18,” said Maloney. “That’s an important first step. Yet given the known health risks tanning beds present, especially to minors, along with the steep climb in skin cancer rates we’ve seen over the last two decades, children really shouldn’t be allowed to use these devices. Over the past year, I've pressed the Administration to enact tougher restrictions on the use of tanning beds by minors, and I’m pleased the FDA appears to be moving in this direction. Now we are urging OMB to act as quickly possible to move forward with these important protections.” -- Skin Cancer Caucus Co-chair Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney "I’ll never forget the moment I found that the brown freckle on my upper chest was a melanoma. I’m proud to sign this letter to make sure countless others won't ever have that same feeling." --Skin Cancer Caucus Co-chair Congressman Dave Joyce “Researchers say more people develop skin cancer because of tanning than develop lung cancer because of smoking; meanwhile, women 39 and under have a higher chance of developing melanoma than any other cancer but breast cancer. It’s good we’re getting serious about such a scary disease.” -- Skin Cancer Caucus Co-chair Congressman Jim Cooper ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges. The court has ruled in favor of marriage equality. Congressman Lieu serves as a Vice Chair of the House LGBT Equality Caucus and joined 167 Representatives and 44 Senators in filing an amicus curiae brief for this case in support of marriage equality. “Love wins, again!!!,” said Congressman Lieu. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) released the following statement on this afternoon’s jury decision in Ferguson v. Jews Offering New Opportunities for Healing (JONAH), a landmark lawsuit alleging that so-called “conversion therapy” is fraud. In a unanimous verdict, the jury found that JONAH violated New Jersey consumer protection laws by offering conversion therapy services and claiming they could change their clients’ sexual orientation. Earlier this year, Congressman Lieu introduced H.R. 2450, the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act, which would ban for-profit conversion therapy services nationwide as fraudulent under the Federal Trade Commission Act. He also authored the nation’s first statewide ban on conversion therapy in California in 2012. “Today’s momentous verdict validates two basic principles: fraud is fraud and love is love,” said Congressman Lieu. “This verdict confirms the entire theory of my legislation to ban conversion therapy nationwide, which is that purportedly treating people for medical conditions that do not exist is fraudulent. Being heterosexual, homosexual or bisexual is not a medical condition. I want to congratulate my friend David Dinielli and the entire legal team at the Southern Poverty Law Center, who represented the plaintiffs, for their tireless and brilliant work throughout this trial. I also want to commend Michael Ferguson, Benjamin Unger, and Chaim Levin, the plaintiffs who bravely took the stand and shared their stories in order to protect other LGBT youth from being subjected to conversion therapy. Thanks to their courage and dedication, today’s victory brings us one step closer to the passage of a federal ban on this dangerous and deceptive practice. I look forward to working with the LGBT community and my colleagues in Congress to pass H.R. 2450 and end conversion therapy in America once and for all.” ###
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) and 17 original cosponsors introduced the Advocating for Homeless Veterans Act to reauthorize the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans through December 31, 2020. The Advisory Committee was created in 2001 by then-House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Chris Smith (R-NJ) to review the VA’s efforts to serve homeless veterans and provide the Department with recommendations. Congressman Ted Lieu said, “No woman or man who has fought for their country in uniform should ever have to fight for a roof over their heads or food on their tables. As the Obama Administration works towards ending veteran homelessness, Congress needs to ensure the VA has every tool at its disposal to achieve and maintain that goal. Since 2001, the VA’s Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans has provided valuable analysis of the VA’s efforts while advocating for additional resources from HUD-VASH vouchers to funds for local partnership programs that house veterans.” Matthew Miller, Chief Policy Officer at the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, also said, "IAVA strongly supports reauthorizing the VA Advisory Committee on Homeless Veteran's, which has been a key entity in making major progress in ending veteran homelessness. The VA has prioritized reducing the number of homeless veterans but we can't rest until our nation's veterans themselves have a safe and secure place to rest. Congressman Lieu's legislation provides a power tool to accomplish this mission.” ORIGINAL COSPONSORS Julia Brownley, Mark Takano, Patrick Murphy, Greg Meeks, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Mike Honda, Susan Davis, José Serrano, Mike Quigley, John Conyers, Norma Torres, Raul Grijavla, Grace Meng, Judy Chu, Steve Israel, Al Green, Rick Nolan ENDORSEMENTS BY VETERAN ADVOCACY GROUPS Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Vietnam Veterans of America, Military Officers Association of America, Veterans of Foreign Wars, National Association of County Veteran Service Officers, Military Order of the Purple Heart, The Retired Enlisted Association INFORMATION ON THE VA ADVISORY COMMITTEE The VA Advisory Committee was created in 2001 through the Homeless Veterans Comprehensive Assistance Act of 2001 and signed in law by President George W. Bush. The Advisory Committee is comprised of 15 members with expertise in working with and treating homeless veterans, including representatives from veterans service organizations, community providers, previously homeless Veterans, and state Veterans affairs officials. The Advisory Committee advises the Department of Veterans Affairs on benefits and services to homeless veterans by reviewing the VA’s services, recommending actions to address gaps in services, and reporting annually to the Secretary Since its inception, the Advisory Committee has helped secure additional HUD-VASH vouchers, increased funding for Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF), and the launch of the Veterans Justice Outreach Program ###
06.25.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 25, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its decision in King v. Burwell: “I applaud the Supreme Court for making the right decision and upholding the health insurance of millions of Americans. Today’s ruling is a great victory that affirms this central principle: heath care in America is a right, not a privilege. The Affordable Care Act is working – more than 16.4 million uninsured Americans now have health insurance since the law’s passage. In the California exchange alone, 1.4 million people have already enrolled in health insurance. It is time for the Tea Party to stop pushing frivolous lawsuits to undermine the Affordable Care Act, and stop wasting taxpayer dollars in Congress by repeatedly holding votes to repeal or undercut the law.” ###
06.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 22, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 Los Angeles - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) released the following statement following the news that the California Department of Fish and Wildlife has found a match between one sample from the Refugio/Santa Barbara oil spill and a tar ball from the Manhattan Beach/South Bay incident. “Today, the California Department of Fish and Wildlife has confirmed that oil washing up on South Bay beaches last month was the result of the Refugio/Santa Barbara oil spill. This news underscores how dangerous oil spills are to our precious coastline. That’s why I am firmly against coastline drilling, whether it’s in Hermosa Beach or in the Arctic. Any oil spill underscores the need for America to abandon the dirty, destructive fuels of the 18th century and invest in clean 21st century energy solutions. It is my expectation that Plains All American Pipeline – the party responsible for both incidents – will pay for any cleanup costs and penalties stemming from these oil spills. If Plains All American Pipeline wavers in any way, I will look into ways to ensure that they accept responsibility for the cleanup cost. These spills also further underscore the importance of companies to continue to pay into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. I will continue to work closely with both the California Department of Fish and Wildlife and the Coast Guard to monitor this ongoing situation.” ###
06.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 11, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 Los Angeles - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) issued the following statement regarding today’s announcement by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that it has selected a team to develop a master plan for revitalization at the West Los Angeles VA campus. The team, made up of three firms, will work with local stakeholders to chart a path forward for the West LA VA. “The West LA VA has reached another important milestone with the selection of a master plan team,” said Congressman Lieu. “I applaud West LA VA’s efforts to return its primary focus to housing and serving veterans. No one who has fought for their country at home and abroad should have to fight for a roof over their head or the medical care they deserve. I look forward to working with the newly-formed team as it develops and executes a master plan to revitalize the campus and offer the best possible support for those who have served our nation.” ###
06.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 5, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 Los Angeles - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | California) made the following statement on today’s launch of the Homes for Heroes Program in downtown Los Angeles. Homes for Heroes is a partnership of the U.S. Veterans Administration, LA City Chamber of Commerce, United Way, LA Housing and Community investment Department, Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles and Housing Authority of the County of Los Angeles to encourage landlords to rent to homeless veterans. There are an estimated 4,700 homeless Veterans in the city of Los Angeles. Congressman Lieu’s CA-33 district is located in LA County and contains parts of the city of Los Angeles. “Ending Veteran homelessness in America requires ending Veteran homelessness in Los Angeles. That’s why I applaud today’s launch of the Homes for Heroes Program – an important step forward in guaranteeing that no American who has fought for their nation overseas has to fight for a roof over their heads upon returning home. The Home for Heroes Program is a targeted mission to address financial and logistical obstacles standing in the way of homeless Veterans utilizing VA subsidies and supportive services in order to find a good home in LA. I commend Mayor Eric Garcetti and VA Secretary Bob McDonald for their support of this program. I also commend President Barack Obama for his unwavering commitment to address Veteran homelessness.” ###
06.04.2015	LOS ANGELES – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D – Los Angeles) issued the following statement regarding today’s Gate Opening Ceremony, Welcome Center Ribbon Cutting, and Long Term Supportive Housing Grand Opening at the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center. The event is hosted by Robert A. McDonald, Secretary, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. “Today represents both symbolic and literal victories for the West Los Angeles VA with the dedication of a main gate, the opening of a new welcome center and – most importantly - long term supportive housing for veterans. As the main gate at the corner of San Vicente and Wilshire is opened, plaques will be hung, restoring the name of this property as an Old Soldiers’ Home. In 1888, this sacred land was donated to be permanently maintained as a branch of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers. Today, this space is rededicated with that intent and purpose, signaling to all Veterans that they are welcomed home. In addition to the gate opening, Building 209 will be opened to offer Veterans Long Term Supportive Housing. This is one of the intended uses of the West LA VA – as a vibrant home for our community’s veteran heroes. Finally, the new Welcome Center will serve as a much-needed point of entry for Veterans and their families to be connected with the services that the West LA VA offers. I want to congratulate Secretary McDonald, his fine team, supportive Veterans, and our community as a new page is turned for Veterans in Los Angeles.” ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON - Yesterday, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles)’s amendment to H.R. 2578, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 was adopted by voice vote. The federal government’s Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program is funded out of the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA)’s Salaries and Expenses Account. Last year, $18 million was used for marijuana eradication/suppression. Lieu’s amendment cuts $9 million from the account and uses the savings to increase the VAWA (Violence Against Women Act) Youth-Oriented Program by $4 million and Victims of Child Abuse program by $3 million. The additional $2 million is sent to the Spending Reduction Account. “I am pleased the House of Representatives chose to adopt my amendment, which would cut funding from the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA)’s Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program by 50%. Next year I will bring another amendment to eliminate the program completely. “There is a growing, bipartisan consensus across the country that our marijuana policies must change. Despite the overwhelming support from scientists, doctors, and people across the nation for lessening restrictions on marijuana, the DEA still spends millions of dollars each year on domestic cannabis eradication. In 2014 alone, the DEA arrested 6,310 people under its cannabis eradication program for growing marijuana plants. This is a ridiculous waste of precious federal resources, especially when multiple states and jurisdictions have already legalized marijuana. It is time for the federal government to stop making marijuana use or possession a federal crime. “My amendment redirects funding from the DEA’s Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program and funds programs to help child victims of domestic abuse, child abuse and sexual assault. We need to focus our resources where they are actually needed: standing up for children who have been victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault, not spending taxpayer dollars on going after people who grow marijuana plants.” ###
06.01.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 1, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | California) and Chairman Will Hurd (R | Texas) of the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Information Technology have sent a letter to FBI Director James Comey regarding the Bureau’s encryption “backdoor” proposal. Both Lieu and Hurd hold computer science degrees. The bipartisan letter expresses Lieu and Hurd’s disagreement with the FBI’s proposal to force private sector companies to create a “backdoor” that allows law enforcement to circumvent encryption technology. In the letter, Lieu and Hurd also urge the FBI to find alternative ways of addressing the challenges posed by new technologies. Congressman Lieu and Chairman Hurd write: “Democracy will always have to strike a balance between security and liberty. While we recognize the challenging role of law enforcement in helping to strike that balance, we strongly, but respectfully, disagree with the FBI’s proposal to force private sector companies to weaken the security of their products and services by creating a “backdoor” that allows law enforcement to circumvent encryption technology. ” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
05.29.2015	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, June 3rd, Congressman Ted W. Lieu will host a presentation of the acclaimed TV show Fortitude by Participant Media (creators of Oscar-winner An Inconvenient Truth) with an in-depth conversation between climate change leaders to follow. The event will be held in the Capitol Visitor Center Orientation Theater North. Please click here to RSVP. Event Schedule 6:00 p.m. – Cocktail Reception with Refreshments 6:30 p.m. – Opening Remarks by Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and Congressman Ted Lieu 7:00 p.m. – Presentation of the pilot episode of Fortitude (a climate change-themed thriller) 7:45 p.m. – Climate discussion moderated by Greg Dotson, Vice President for Energy Policy at the Center for American Progress Discussion panelists include: Congressman Ted W. Lieu, author of the Climate Solutions Act Simon Donald, Fortitude Creator Dr. Mike MacCracken, Chief Scientist for Climate Change Programs at the Climate Institute Peter Daszak, President of EcoHealth Alliance 8:45 p.m. – Closing Reception and continued conversation with panelists If you have any questions, please contact Jack d’Annibale in the Office of Congressman Lieu. ###
05.28.2015	LOS ANGELES – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement regarding the latest developments in the petroleum spill affecting the Southern California Coast. The cause of the spill is currently undetermined. “After visiting Manhattan Beach this morning, which had massive amounts of petroleum wash up yesterday along a stretch of our community’s coastline, I want to urge residents for public health reasons to stay away from the affected areas. The U.S. Coast Guard has closed the beach from the El Segundo jetty south to the Torrance Redondo Beach border. I want to thank the U.S. Coast Guard--the lead agency--and the city, county and state agencies for their rapid response to this spill. It’s also important to note that the oil cleanup is being paid for by the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, a fact which underscores the necessity of these kinds of funds. My staff and I will continue to monitor this situation closely.” ###
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) led over 20 of his House Democratic colleagues on a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch requesting an investigation into whether race and national origin were factors in the case of Sherry Chen, a Federal employee with the National Weather Service who was arrested on suspicion of espionage. Two months ago, all charges against Ms. Chen were abruptly dismissed. Beyond Ms. Chen’s case, Congressman Lieu and his colleagues are seeking answers from Attorney General Lynch about whether race, national origin, religion or gender are being used by Federal agencies in targeting Federal employees. The letter states: “We thus request an investigation into Ms. Chen’s case to determine whether race was used as a factor in her arrest. We also request an investigation to determine whether any federal agency has a written or unwritten policy, program, pattern or practice of using race (or other civil rights classifications such as religion, gender and national origin) in targeting federal employees for arrest, surveillance, security clearance denials or other adverse actions.” Full text of Congressman Lieu’s letter can be found here. ### **UPDATED: Click here to read the Department of Justice's response dated July 27, 2015.
05.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 20, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement in advance of President Barack Obama’s commencement speech to the Coast Guard Academy. In his commencement address, President Obama is expected to link climate change with the vital national security interests of the United States. Congressman Lieu ran for Congress to help tackle the issue of climate change. He is also an Air Force Veteran and a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force Reserves. Last week Congressman Lieu wrote an amendment to reinstate funding for climate change research, which House Republicans rejected. “I applaud President Obama’s speech announcing climate change as a ‘serious threat’ to national security. In stark contrast, House Republicans are voting this week to slash funding for climate change research, energy efficiency, and renewable energy. “The President wisely reinforces what climate scientists, NASA, and the U.S. military are saying – the impact of climate change is a severe threat to our security both here and abroad, and it is the biggest challenge facing our generation. That is why I recently introduced the Climate Solutions Act of 2015, which seeks to address climate change by setting ambitious national standards for cutting carbon pollution, investing in renewable energy, and setting a high energy efficiency standard. “Having served for 19 years in the military on both active duty and the reserves, it is clear to me that one of our nation’s strengths is that our military is non-partisan and non-ideological. Our military takes the world as it is, not as idealogues would hope it to be; our military believes and relies on science and technology; and our military plans for the future. Our non-partisan military is telling the American public that climate change is real, it is happening, and we must act. “With a severe drought facing California and more extreme weather events happening across the country, the devastating effects of climate change are happening now. I welcome the President’s address and his action with the Clean Power Plan to vigorously cut emissions, and I look forward to working together to tackle this serious threat to our security. “ ###
05.19.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 19, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles) introduced the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act (TFPA), the first federal bill to stop so-called “conversion therapy.” Conversion therapy, which aims to change an individual’s sexual orientation or gender identity, has been proven to be ineffective and dangerous by the medical, educational, and interfaith communities. The TFPA amends the Federal Trade Commission Act to classify commercial conversion therapy and advertising that claims to change sexual orientation and gender identity as fraud. The TFPA would empower the Federal Trade Commission to enforce this legislation, and it would also open practitioners up to civil litigation. It only affects the for-profit conversion therapy industry, and contains important protections for religious liberty and freedom of speech. “Three years after I authored the first statewide ban on conversion therapy in California, I am proud to introduce legislation on the federal level to combat this abusive practice,” said Congressman Lieu. “The truth is that being LGBT cannot be and does not need to be cured. The irony of the conversion therapy industry is that the same people who are telling LGBT kids that they’re diseased are the same ones conveniently offering a high-priced, high-risk, ineffective cure. Conversion therapy sessions and materials are incredibly expensive, costing families thousands of dollars and offering no results. It’s a dangerous scam, and the government must act to protect LGBT Americans from fraudsters who take their money and lie to them.” Congressman Lieu worked with a broad coalition of human rights, health, educational, and interfaith partners to develop this legislation: House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi “Being lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender is not an illness. By attempting to change one’s identity, so-called ‘conversion therapy’ assaults the humanity of countless children and adults. It’s not right. And it must be stopped. With the leadership of Congressman Ted Lieu, California is leading the nation in protecting LGBT families from this harmful, fraudulent process. I’m proud to join Congressman Lieu as a cosponsor of the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act to ensure that not one more person suffers through this abuse.” Click here for Leader Pelosi's full statement on the bill. Dr. Sandra G. Hassink, President - American Academy of Pediatrics Click here for the full statement of support. Rick Zbur, Executive Director - Equality California “Equality California applauds and commends Congressman Ted Lieu for his efforts to end 'conversion therapy,' the damaging psychological abuse practiced by some mental health professionals who falsely claim that they can change a person's sexual orientation or gender expression. The nation’s leading mental health associations have warned that there is no evidence that these treatments work and that they may cause significant harm, especially to vulnerable LGBT youth. That is why in 2012, California became the first state in the country to ban this dangerous practice when Equality California worked with Congressman Lieu to pass Senate Bill 1172. Equality California stands ready to assist Congressman Lieu and others at the federal level so that no one, regardless of where they reside, is subjected to these abusive and harmful practices.” David Stacy, Government Affairs Director – Human Rights Campaign “This vitally important legislation has the potential to save countless lives across this country by helping to end a practice that uses fear and shame to tell LGBT people the only way to find love or acceptance is to change the very nature of who they are. We’re proud to work alongside Congressman Lieu and our partners to send a different message - a message of hope, acceptance, and love where such a demeaning and destructive practice isn’t promoted as useful therapy. Ending this harmful profit-making practice is something that all of Congress should be able to rally behind.” Click here for the full release. Interfaith Alliance Click here for the full statement of support. Los Angeles LGBT Center "So called 'conversion therapry' only results in trauma, rejection and pain for LGBT people that ought to be encouraged to honor their authenticity. This quackery, rejected by every evidence-based medical association, does not belong in our system of mental health. LGBT people should be affirmed and be emboldened to achieve their full potential." National Center for Lesbian Rights “The National Center for Lesbian Rights (NCLR) applauds U.S. Congressman Ted W. Lieu’s introduction of the Therapeutic Fraud Act, the first nationwide bill that would protect LGBT people from the dangers of conversion therapy. Lieu announced the bill this morning at a press conference attended by survivors of conversion therapy, members of the mental health and medical community, faith leaders, and representatives from NCLR, the Human Rights Campaign, and the Sothern Poverty Law Center. If passed, the Therapeutic Fraud Act would be the first nation-wide law to protect LGBT people, no matter who they are or where they live, from being defrauded by false and too often deadly promises that they can change their sexual orientation or gender identity.” Click here for the full release. Mara Keisling, Executive Director - National Center for Transgender Equality "So-called conversion therapy has no place in modern America and the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act is a critical first step toward ending this practice. The Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act calls out 'conversion therapy' of trans, gay, lesbian, and bisexual people for what it is: deceptive and dangerous. And this bill asserts the government's authority to crack down and penalize deceptive practices based on stereotypes rather than science. The National Center for Transgender Equality welcomes this bill and urges Congress to take swift action to ensure not another LGBT person is misled by damaging practices or forced to deny who they are." Catherine Hyde, Board Member and Regional Director, Mid-Atlantic - PFLAG National "My family--along with thousands of other PFLAG families across the country--is grateful for Congressman Lieu’s leadership on protecting youth against the dangers of so-called conversion therapy, which has been condemned by every mainstream professional medical and mental health association. Sadly, my own family has first-hand experience with this dangerous practice: My husband and I, well-meaning as we were, tried for years to 'change' our child, and did so with the support of the mental health community. Instead of helping our young child, we did only harm, harm that we deeply regret to this day. It wasn't until we accepted our child that she began to relax into herself and bloom and grow. Seven years later we are still healing and growing as a family. We know from this experience that what LGBTQ youth need is the love, support, and acceptance of their parents, families, and friends, not to be told to change who they are. We believe that this proposed federal ban will go a long way toward protecting the well-being and wellness of these most-vulnerable youth.” Rebecca Kunkel, Executive Director – School Social Work Association of America Click here for the full letter of support. David Dinielli, Deputy Legal Director – Southern Poverty Law Center “Conversion therapy is fraud, plain and simple. It is premised on the lie that LGBT people are ill or disordered and that they should be cured. We know this is false, and we know that these lies harm LGBT people and their families. We commend Representative Lieu for this bold legislation. Nobody in this country should sell a cure that doesn’t work for a condition that doesn’t need fixing.” For more information about the bill, please visit www.lieu.house.gov/stopconversiontherapy. ###
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, May 19, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) will introduce the first federal ban on so-called “conversion therapy”. Conversion therapy, which seeks to change an individual’s sexual orientation or gender identity, is a dangerous but often overlooked form of discrimination against LGBT Americans. Congressman Lieu has been working with Human Rights Campaign (HRC), the National Center for Lesbian Rights (NCLR), the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), and many other partners to stop conversion therapy on the state and national level. Congressman Lieu will hold a press conference on Tuesday to announce the Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act’s introduction. He will discuss the specifics of the bill alongside advocates, mental health experts, and survivors of conversion therapy. For more information or to RSVP, please contact Jack D’Annibale and Caroline Paris-Behr in Congressman Lieu’s office. ###
05.15.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement on his appointment to the Congressional-Executive Commission to China (CECC). Congress created the CECC in 2000 to monitor China's compliance with international human rights standards, to encourage the development of the rule of law in the PRC, and to establish and maintain a list of victims of human rights abuses in China. The Commission comprises nine Senators, nine members of the House of Representatives and five senior Administration officials appointed by the President. “I am honored to be appointed by Leader Nancy Pelosi to the Congressional-Executive Commission on China. I look forward to working with Representatives, Senators and Administration officials on this bipartisan, bicameral Commission. As the U.S. seeks to pivot to Asia, one of America's most important relationships across the Pacific Ocean is China, the world’s most-populous country and second-largest economy. It is imperative that the U.S. conducts its relationship with China in a thoughtful manner that takes into account our economic interests, security interests, environmental interests, and our values. The Commission conducts public hearings and administers reports on China. As an immigrant in the Asian Pacific American community and having served for 19 years as an officer in the Air Force and the Reserves, I look forward to bringing a fresh perspective to the Commission at a crucial time in U.S.-China relations.” Leader Pelosi’s appointment letter to Congressman Lieu can be found here. ###
05.15.2015	CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-225-3976 LOS ANGELES, CA – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) expressed his thanks to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for hosting a community-wide Homeless Veteran Town Hall. The Town Hall was held in the Wadsworth Theater located on the West LA VA campus. It was well attended by veterans, community members, providers and interested parties. The Town Hall focused on the steps the VA has taken during the first 100 days since the release of “Veterans Homelessness Strategy and Action Plan for Greater Los Angeles: Key Strategies.” Vince Kane, the Special Assistant to VA Secretary McDonald, led a panel of experts as they reported on a number of positive developments. The VA has hired a number of additional VA Supportive Housing (VASH) teams to case manage Veterans, allowing the VA to utilize an influx of valuable HUD-VASH vouchers. Increased funding for Supportive Services for Veterans Families (SSVF) is also aiding families at risk of homelessness. In addition, VA is working with the City of Los Angeles and County of Los Angeles to encourage landlords to accept housing vouchers. In addition to implementing the Action Plan, the VA accepted bids earlier this month to engage an Urban Planner to develop a Master Plan by mid-October. The plan will focus on how best to use and improve the services and programs on the West LA VA. Robust input from Veterans and the community will be the cornerstone of this process. “I am delighted to learn of the significant progress being made by the VA in this short period of time”, said Congressman Lieu. “We clearly have the commitment of Secretary McDonald and Special Assistant Vince Kane to tackle this problem. The focus on homelessness among Veterans in Los Angeles could not come at a better time. The release this week of the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority (LAHSA) 2015 Homeless Count indicates that homelessness among Veterans has remained flat over the last two years. The count reports that Los Angeles has 4,391 homeless female and male Veterans as compared to 4,243 in 2013. We must do all we can to bring that number down dramatically and with great intent. I stand ready to assist Veterans and the VA in Congress. Should regulations or legislation be needed, I will take the lead on that effort. The VA’s progress is admirable and my expectation is that they will follow-through so our homeless Veterans will finally have homes.” ###
05.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 13, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) issued the following statement regarding H.R. 36, which would ban all abortions from being performed after 20 weeks gestation. The bill, which would criminalize abortion providers, is opposed by a wide range of religious, human rights, and professional medical organizations. Congressman Lieu voted against H.R. 36, which passed the House today by a vote of 242-184. “H.R. 36 is flat out unconstitutional”, said Congressman Lieu. “Not only would H.R. 36 violate the Constitution if it became law, the bill is based on ideology rather than facts. Despite the misleading Republican messaging on this bill, H.R. 36 is not actually about medical science or the health of women and families. The truth is that only 1% of abortions are performed after 20 weeks, and the vast majority of them are medically necessary. We know this bill is not about the health of women and families because it doesn’t contain adequate exceptions to save the health or lives of mothers and children. In practice, it would restrict access to all vital reproductive health services for women in the most desperate circumstances.” “Legislation like H.R. 36 that limits abortion rights is actually about federal control over our most private and personal decisions. It’s about violating a woman’s conscience and her right to free agency over her own body. It’s dangerous and unconstitutional.” “I trust women to make the best reproductive health decisions for themselves and their families. I voted against H.R. 36 today and will continue to do all I can to make sure that these private and personal decisions are made by women and their doctors, not by the federal government.” ###
05.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 13, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) released the following statement in response to H.R. 2048, the USA Freedom Act of 2015, which is scheduled to be considered by the House of Representatives later today. H.R. 2048 is the first major foreign intelligence reform legislation to clear either house of Congress following Edward Snowden’s revelation that the National Security Agency (NSA) is spying on American citizens. Congressman Lieu serves on the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on National Security. “I will be voting NO on H.R. 2048, which extends Section 215 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act,” said Congressman Lieu. “While I appreciate a number of the reforms in the bill and understand the need for secure counter-espionage and terrorism investigations, I believe our nation is better served by allowing Section 215 to expire completely and replacing it with a measure that finds a better balance between national security interests and protecting the civil liberties of Americans.” “The National Security Agency (NSA) and other federal agencies have used Section 215 as a cover to violate the constitutional rights of Americans for years with open-ended data gathering operations that are not properly addressed by the USA Freedom Act. Further, the bill does not include minimization language from previous versions to require the express destruction of information that is irrelevant to criminal investigations.” “Beyond Section 215, I am troubled that the USA Freedom Act would leave in place Sections 505 and 702, provisions that also allow sweeping data collection and backdoor searches circumventing encryption that can result in the collection of information of U.S. citizens not identified in warrants. The loopholes left in place will continue to undermine the trust of the American people. That trust needs to be earned back under leadership that is committed to constitutional principles.” “A federal district court struck down the NSA’s spying on Americans and called the NSA PRISM program ‘Orwellian.’ A federal appellate court ruled last week that the NSA’s bulk collection program was illegal. Despite these two court decisions, the NSA continues to operate its unconstitutional and illegal programs. Thus, even when the NSA has been told by the third branch of government that NSA is engaging in illegal activity, the NSA still continues to violate the law. The fact that the NSA used its illegal interpretation of Section 215 and kept it secret without any checks from the rubber-stamp FISA Court means that far-reaching legislation is required to address these issues and rebuild public trust in government.” “Finally, I am disappointed the USA Freedom Act will be considered under a “closed rule,” meaning Members will not be able to consider any amendments to the Act on the House floor. Amendments that would have protected whistleblowers and banned backdoor encryption mandates would have put appropriate civil liberties protections into the bill.” “I thank the Judiciary Committee and Intelligence Committee for their sincere efforts at reform. This bill is better than past efforts to reform the abuses of the NSA. However, until we have legislation that adequately addresses these loopholes and lack of accountability, I cannot vote to continue to give the federal government far reaching powers without stronger safeguards.” ###
05.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 7, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) - a member of the National Security Subcommittee of the House Oversight & Government Reform Committee - issued the following statement in light of the news that a federal appeals court has ruled in a case brought by the ACLU that the NSA bulk collection of Americans’ phone records is illegal. “Today’s ruling by a federal appeals court striking down the National Security Agency’s (NSA) collection of millions of phone records is a victory for the constitutional rights of every American. I commend the third branch of government for saying what most Americans already knew: the NSA has been acting illegally for years. “This judicial ruling further underscores why the Patriot Act must expire and not be extended. Continuing to allow mass violations of our Constitutional rights is corrosive to our democracy and undermines trust in our Executive Branch. “The NSA clearly violated the law by bulk collecting phone metadata and further investigation is urgently needed into other NSA programs – such as recent revelations about the NSA conducting mass search and seizure of internet traffic. Today’s ruling by a federal appeals court reaffirms our core democratic values: all Federal agencies must uphold the public trust, act according to the laws of the land and follow the Constitution.” ###
05.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 6, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) joined Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald and Douglas Guthrie, CEO of the Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles (HACLA), for the announcement of the Homeless Veterans Initiative in Los Angeles. The Initiative is the result of collaboration between HACLA and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that aims to address the needs of homeless Veterans who are ineligible for HUD-VASH vouchers. “We aren’t going to solve the crisis of Veteran homelessness if we don’t solve it in Los Angeles,” said Congressman Lieu. “The Homeless Veterans Initiative is a unique and innovative partnership designed to make a real difference in the lives of our Veterans by ensuring that they have reliable access to healthcare and housing. Thank you Secretary McDonald, Mr. Guthrie, and Mayor Garcetti for your tireless work on this issue. I am also pleased funds from Proposition 41, of which I was a co-author, will also be used to house homeless Veterans. I stand ready to support the Homeless Veterans Initiative in any way that I can – including advocating in Congress for a fully funded VA.” Veterans who are not approved for VA healthcare services cannot currently receive HUD-VASH vouchers to assist them with obtaining permanent housing. The Homeless Veterans Initiative has secured 500 Section 8 vouchers to be dedicated by the City of Los Angeles through HACLA to this vulnerable population of veterans who are not getting housing or healthcare assistance. Through this innovative program, VA employees will work out of HACLA’s offices in Los Angeles so that both organizations can work together to jointly serve homeless veterans. ###
05.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 6, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 Los Angeles, CA – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) – a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform – has issued the following statement regarding the lack of accountability for Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) agents who abused Daniel Chong. Mr. Chong was detained in 2012 by the DEA and held for five days without food or water before being released without charges. After an internal DEA investigation concluded in March, two agents received short suspensions and four agents received only reprimands. “Today, I call upon the Department of Justice (DOJ) to open a civil rights investigation into the conduct of the DEA agents who detained Daniel Chong and left him without food and water for five days. Leaving Mr. Chong locked in a room without food or water appears to have been a violation of his civil and constitutional rights. According to the Los Angeles Times, Mr. Chong survived and avoided dehydration only by drinking his own urine. Four reprimands and two short suspensions does not amount to justice for Mr. Chong and his family. The current DOJ solution to this matter - a review of DEA internal disciplinary process - is simply not good enough. Mr. Chong almost died and had to undergo treatment for trauma caused by the abuse he suffered. I will be sending a letter shortly to formally request that the Department of Justice conduct a full civil rights investigation into the apparent denial of Mr. Chong’s civil and constitutional rights by the DEA. Those who perpetrated this abuse must be held accountable and a message must be sent that these kinds of actions can not, must not happen again.” ###
05.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 5, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 LOS ANGELES, CA – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) spoke at the ribbon-cutting ceremony celebrating the opening of the Blue Butterfly Navy Village Housing Program in San Pedro, California. Secretary Robert McDonald of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) also gave remarks at the event. “I am thrilled to be here today to join Secretary McDonald and the Volunteers of America (VOA) in celebrating the completion of this incredible project,” said Congressman Lieu. “The Blue Butterfly Navy Village is an innovative and much-needed development that specifically addresses the needs of female veterans in the Los Angeles area. Our men and women in uniform returning home from fighting a war should not have to fight to find a safe place for their young families to sleep. The VA has reported that female veterans are the fastest-growing segment of the homeless population, and I am proud that California is taking initiative to address this. I am very grateful that President Obama, First Lady Michelle Obama and Secretary McDonald have made ending veterans homelessness a top priority. I also want to thank VOA, whose hard work, organization, and fundraising made the Blue Butterfly Navy Village possible.” The Blue Butterfly Navy Village is one of the first programs in the country to specifically address the housing needs of female veterans. The village, which is built on 9 acres of land that has been converted from Navy housing, has 74 townhouses for veterans and their children. VOA spent $15 million to build the village, which will provide mental health services and after-school activities in addition to family housing. At today’s event, four families received keys to their new homes at Blue Butterfly Navy Village. Photos of the event can be found here. ###
05.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) released the following statement in response to this morning’s Wall Street Journal article stating that the Department of Justice has begun disclosing more about their use of cell phone tracking techniques and that the FBI has begun requesting warrants to track cellphones. There has been significant controversy surrounding the previously warrantless use of cellphone tracking devices to gather information on Americans. “The FBI has seen the wisdom of obtaining warrants to track cell phone movement just as they are required to get warrants for GPS tracking. This action was long overdue. I call on the NSA and all other federal agencies to follow the FBI’s example. Furthermore, I also call on all federal agencies to follow the Department of Justice’s example with regards to greater disclosure about and review of cell phone tracking policies. All Federal agencies should uphold the public trust and follow the Constitution.” ###
04.29.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 29, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) released the following statement on the 2016 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which allocates $1 billion less than President Obama requested for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “Last year Congress justifiably scrutinized the VA because Veterans were waiting too long to get appointments at its hospitals. This year – under the new, bold leadership of Secretary McDonald – the Department has requested the resources it believes are necessary to give our Veterans the care and services they have earned and deserve. Unfortunately, the Republican-authored Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act allocates more than a billion dollars less than Secretary McDonald’s recommendation. Historically, Congress has signed blank checks to send our brave men and women overseas. In contrast, Congress has often struggled to forge a fully-committed and comprehensive plan to care for our servicemembers when they come home. This time around, our heroes should not be subject to the arbitrary, across-the-board, discretionary budget cuts of the Republican sequester. Veterans’ medical care, VA information technology and VA construction must be fully funded according to the needs outlined by Secretary McDonald – a Veteran himself and a CEO with deep private sector experience. President Obama has absolutely done the right thing requesting VA funding in line with the Secretary’s recommendation. As a Veteran and a member of the Budget Committee, I stand with AMVETS, VFW, IAVA, American Legion, PVA and DVA – in opposition to this legislation. I will be voting No and I fully support the President in his stated intention to veto this bill.” ###
04.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 22, 2015 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) has introduced the Climate Solutions Act. Congressman Lieu, co-author of California’s landmark Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, ran for Congress to help tackle climate change. Today, he introduces a bold, progressive plan to cut carbon pollution and invest in America’s green energy industry. “Rising sea levels, extreme weather events, and an increasingly hotter climate prove that climate change is an existential threat to humankind,” said Congressman Lieu. “That’s why, to commemorate Earth Day, I have introduced the Climate Solutions Act. The Act tackles climate change by focusing on three areas: slashing carbon pollution, implementing bold renewable portfolio standards, and setting landmark energy efficiency standards. History books will one day say that America led the way on addressing climate change and saving our planet – or there will be no history books. We must act on climate now.” STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT FOR CLIMATE SOLUTIONS ACT "The American people want action to tackle the climate crisis, and it’s time Congress listened. That's why the Sierra Club applauds Congressman Lieu for his leadership in tackling climate disruption while growing the American clean energy economy. This bill would be a great step forward that would create jobs while cutting the dangerous carbon pollution that threatens the health of our families and our communities,” said Melinda Pierce, Legislative Director, Sierra Club. “Now is the time for all members of Congress and stakeholders to do likewise – describe your approach and your principles for tackling climate change. Then America can do as we always have -- come together and pass legislation that will meet the climate challenge while enhancing American competitiveness, protecting national security, and creating jobs,” said Elizabeth Thompson, president of Environmental Defense Action Fund (EDAF). “The South Bay Clean Power Working Group commends Representative Ted Lieu for bringing California's Global Warming Solutions Act (AB 32) goals to the entire nation in order to take the immediate and aggressive climate action we so urgently need. Our Community Choice Power initiative is driven by the same need to take climate action now by driving the quickest possible transition from dirty fossil fuels to 100% renewable energy and the more prosperous healthy future a clean energy economy will bring us.” "Thank you, Congressmember Lieu for taking action on climate change. By reducing our nation's dependence on fossil fuel, you are protecting the economic and national security interests of the United States," said Jonathan Parfrey, Executive Director of Climate Resolve, located in Los Angeles. A statement of support from Faith2Green can be found here. Click here for a fact sheet on the Climate Solutions Act. The full text of the bill can be found here. ###
04.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 15, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement on USA Today’s investigative report that details issues with timely and effective reporting of medical scope-related superbug outbreaks at hospitals around the nation. Two superbug outbreaks have taken place in Congressman Lieu’s district – at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center and at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. “I am deeply disturbed by recent reports that superbug outbreaks due to tainted duodenoscopes were not reported to the FDA. Further, I am deeply concerned that when these reports did occur, the lag time between the outbreak and the report was far too long. When someone dies or is infected from the use of a medical device, this should be reported to the FDA as soon as possible, not months later, or in some reported cases, not at all. This latest information shows the need for continued investigation and stronger reporting requirements. I continue my call for a congressional hearing to investigate and find a solution to this problem, and I am currently working on stronger reporting requirement legislation.” ###
04.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 15, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) issued the following statement after yesterday’s inaugural meeting of the House of Representatives’ Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism. The Taskforce met with British Ambassador Peter Westmacott, German Ambassador Peter Wittig and French Ambassador Gerard Araud to discuss the rising tide of anti-Semitism in Europe. “As a founding member of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism, I am proud that one of our missions is to focus on the alarming trend of anti-Semitic attacks and threats against Jewish communities in Europe. I was pleased to hear from our French, German and British partners that they are taking this issue very seriously and are working to bolster security for Jewish communities. I look forward to working across party lines to explore creative ways not only to protect these communities but also to reverse these trends.” More photos of the meeting can be found here. ###
04.09.2015	Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) released the following statement calling for a federal ban on gay conversion therapy. While serving in the California State Senate, Lieu was the author of S.B. 1172, which forbade gay conversion therapy for minors. The bill was signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown in October 2012, making California the first state in the nation to officially ban this dangerous practice.“So-called gay conversion therapy, which seeks to change an individual’s sexual orientation or gender identity, is a dangerous but often overlooked form of discrimination against LGBT Americans,” said Congressman Lieu. “I was elated to hear of President Obama’s support for a permanent ban. Conversion therapy has critical medical and ethical flaws that can be seriously damaging to the physical and mental health of those who are compelled to undergo it. Minors, who may not be empowered to make their own health decisions, are especially at risk.” “California’s ban on conversion therapy has survived several court challenges by anti-LGBT groups and has inspired the passage of similar bills in New Jersey and Washington, D.C. I applaud the President’s decision to fully support state-level initiatives that make the use of these practices on minors illegal. However, I believe that a federal ban is the only way to completely protect young people from the harmful effects of conversion therapy and to ensure that they are celebrated, not shamed, for their identities. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to pass a national law that forbids this destructive and discriminatory pseudoscience once and for all. In the meantime I will seek to block any federal funding from supporting this discredited and cruel practice.” ###
04.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 7, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) released the following statement in light of the news that the Department of Veterans Affairs awarded nearly $93 million in new Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) 3-year grants to 24 nonprofits, helping approximately 45,000 homeless and at-risk Veterans. The SSFV program provides immediate financial assistance to help families remain in permanent housing or return to permanent housing as quickly as possible. “I applaud VA Secretary McDonald for once again demonstrating his commitment to devoting all necessary resources to ending Veterans Homelessness,” said Congressman Lieu. “Los Angeles has the highest number of homeless Veterans in the nation, and I commend the VA for committing $30 million of these new grants to our nonprofit partners in the Los Angeles area. As one of the most effective programs for housing Veterans in the VA’s toolbox, SSVF grants will build on the progress that has already been made over the past year by the VA and our partners on the ground to comprehensively tackle this issue once and for all.” Dr. Jonathan Sherin – Executive Vice President for Military Communities with the Volunteers of America – also made the following statement, “I am thrilled by this announcement, which is precisely the type of commitment that Secretary McDonald promised. SSVF, in my opinion, is the most impactful of VA homeless programs, focuses resource on outreach, permanent housing and prevention which are all critical to the solution. As we know, Los Angeles is ground zero for homeless Veterans and it is high time we rewrite this narrative.” Finally, Veterans advocate Bobby Shriver commented, “Thanks to Secretary McDonald and his team who are working hard in Los Angeles for Vets. Housing first works.”
04.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 6, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) issued the following statement on the announcement of a framework nuclear agreement with Iran: “Diplomacy is a central tenant of a smart national security policy, and I respect the tireless efforts of Secretary Kerry and the entire U.S. negotiating team in their negotiations with Iran to curtail its nuclear program. When it comes to a nuclear agreement with Iran, we have always known that the devil would be in the details, and there are a number of key concerns and questions that need to be addressed. Iran has a long history of deceit and I continue to believe no deal is better than a bad deal. It is also clear that the legislative branch has a key oversight role regarding national security policy, especially on an issue of this magnitude and especially when the negotiations include sanctions that Congress itself put into place. I support allowing Congress an opportunity to vote on any deal.” ### Congressman Ted W. Lieu a member of the National Security Oversight Subcommittee.
03.31.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 31, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 Los Angeles – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) released the following statement in honor of Cesar Chavez Day, an official state holiday in California: “Today, on Cesar Chavez’s birthday, we honor the life and legacy of one of California’s most notable labor leaders. Cesar Chavez’s achievements brought American farmworkers out of the shadows of society. His accomplishments prove the power of nonviolent activism and serve as an inspiration to us all as we continue to fight for immigrant rights and a living wage for all workers.” ###
03.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 30, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, The Los Angeles Times published a story on the growing influence of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) vote in local, state and national elections. "I believe when you move the American family forward, you also move the Asian American family forward. Issues such as job growth, education, healthcare — they are all very similar issues across the board." - Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles), The Los Angeles Times, March 29, 2015 Link to L.A. Times AAPI Voter Piece.
03.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 26, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) released the following statement on the new duodenoscope sanitation protocols announced this morning by the Olympus Corporation of the Americas. The scopes, which are manufactured by Olympus, have been linked to recent outbreaks of antibiotic resistant superbugs at hospitals, including UCLA Medical Center and Cedars-Sinai in Los Angeles County. “There is welcome news today in the fight to prevent superbug outbreaks. I commend the Olympus Corporation for issuing new disinfecting protocols and cleaning equipment for their duodenoscopes. This is certainly a step forward in a concerted mission that I believe Olympus, hospitals, federal agencies, policymakers and communities from coast to coast share: preventing superbug outbreaks resulting from crucial medical procedures involving scopes. I look forward to working with Olympus and other stakeholders going forward as we work to forge more solutions on this urgent public health issue.” ###
03.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 27, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | jack.dannibale@mail.house.gov | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) made the following statement in light of the White House’s release of a critical action plan to combat antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Recent superbug outbreaks have occurred in Congressman Lieu’s district at Cedars-Sinai and UCLA Medical Centers and he has called for a Congressional hearing on the outbreaks. Congressman Lieu is also concerned that reporting of superbug outbreaks / infections is at the discretion of the states. Some states do not report outbreaks / infections. “I commend President Obama for taking action against antibiotic-resistant bacteria, a grave threat to our nation and to the world. A key part of any strategy to combat these bacteria is to understand the full extent of the problem. I recently met with the CDC and there is currently no national uniform requirement on reporting incidents of superbug outbreaks and infections to the CDC. In order to fully address the problem of superbugs, we must know where the problems exist. That’s why I am working on legislation to provide reporting information to the CDC, regardless of the state or community where an outbreak or an infection occurs.” ###
03.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 24, 2015CONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) has sent a letter to the Olympus Corporation of the Americas seeking answers to better inform policymakers on how to prevent superbug outbreaks linked to contaminated medical scopes. Several recent outbreaks have been linked to the Olympus manufactured duodenoscope, including two outbreaks in Congressman Lieu’s district, at the UCLA and Cedars-Sinai Medical Centers. In the letter, Congressman Lieu questions Olympus on plans to redesign its duodenoscope and what alternative scope cleaning methods might be available for hospitals. Congressman Lieu also questions the fairness of hospitals being required to purchase more duodenoscopes from Olympus due to the inherent design flaw in the device.
03.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Jack d’Annibale | 202-330-1613 Washington—Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Barbara Boxer (both D-Calif.) and Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) today introduced the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Earthquake Protection and Improvement Act to allow the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to advance critical, time-sensitive seismic safety projects at VA facilities in California and facility upgrades in New York. The federal spending bill signed into law in December included funds for three seismic safety projects in California ($187.5 million for San Diego, $101.9 million for Long Beach and $35 million for Los Angeles) as well as $122.4 million for upgrades at the VA facility in Canandaigua, N.Y. However, VA can’t spend the money approved by Congress and the president for those projects because there is a legal requirement that projects also be approved by the Veterans’ Affairs Committees. Congress did not pass legislation last year to authorize any of the VA’s requested construction projects, so those funds can’t be used. These funds are especially important for California, where the U.S. Geological Survey estimates a magnitude 6.7 or greater earthquake strikes every 6.3 years, on average. It also reports that California’s risk of being struck by a magnitude 8.0 or greater earthquake has increased by nearly 50 percent since the agency completed its last estimate in 2008. “The next California earthquake is a question of when, not if, and the seismic safety upgrades planned for the three California VA facilities are critical to ensure the safety of veterans, health care providers and staff,” said Senator Feinstein. “Given that Congress has already approved funds for these projects, I am hopeful that my colleagues will allow for this simple technical fix to advance quickly.” “I am proud to join with Senator Feinstein to introduce this important legislation, which will protect the safety of our veterans and the medical staff who care for them by ensuring that VA facilities in California receive critical seismic upgrades,” said Senator Boxer. “One of our greatest responsibilities in Congress is to provide for those who have served our country,” said Congressman Lieu. “Placing our veterans and their health care providers in buildings not fit to withstand an earthquake does not meet the American standard. This bill will authorize funds that Congress itself already appropriated; it is a legislative no-brainer. Thank you to Senators Feinstein and Boxer for their leadership on this issue. I look forward to working with all my colleagues in the House and Senate to quickly pass this bill to bolster the safety of our veterans and VA staff.” Feinstein, Boxer and Lieu have also written to the chair and ranking member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committees in the House and Senate to urge swift consideration of the bill.
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) made the following statement in the wake of a report in USA Today, which raises questions about the role that automated endoscope reprocessors, or AER’s, might play in the spread of superbug bacteria by contaminated medical scopes. This latest report comes in the wake of a series of deadly medical scope-related superbug outbreaks in several hospitals across the nation. “Given ongoing reports of how contaminated medical scopes are linked to a series of superbug outbreaks, I am concerned by new details regarding potentially unsafe automated endoscope reprocessor (AER) cleaning devices. The FDA must investigate all aspects of these outbreaks. That’s why I am continuing my call for a Congressional hearing into these matters through the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.”
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, on the 12th anniversary of the Iraq War, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA-33) launched the bipartisan Post-9/11 Veterans Caucus alongside Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI-02), Congressman Scott Perry (R-PA-04), Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ-07), Congressman Mark Takai (D-HI-01) and Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA-06). “As a veteran and an Air Force reservist, I am honored to join Representatives Gabbard, Perry, Takai, Moulton and Gallego in today’s launch of the Post-9/11 Veterans Caucus,” said Congressman Lieu. “No veteran in America should face a crisis of health security, homelessness, unemployment, substance abuse or post-traumatic stress. My district in Los Angeles is home to the largest VA healthcare system, as well as one of the largest homeless veteran populations. VA Secretary McDonald has led a reinvigorated effort to confront the challenges we face at the West LA campus, and there remains much work to be done. As a bipartisan group of current and former servicemembers, I am hopeful that the Post-9/11 Veterans Caucus will be able to help veterans issues cut across party lines and find innovative solutions to protect and promote our veteran community.” The Congressional Post-9/11 Veterans Caucus will include a bipartisan group of Members who have served in the military after 9/11, and who are dedicated to issues related to our newest generation of veterans. The caucus’ legislative agenda will focus on the 2.8 million veterans who have served and deployed since 9/11, and provide a forum for this new generation of veterans to voice their concerns and ideas. The Congressional Post-9/11 Veterans Caucus is focused on empowering the most recent generation of veterans to continue their commitment to service and carry on their mission of a stronger and more prosperous America. The Caucus will strive to improve veterans’ transition to civilian life, reduce the Veterans Affairs disability claims backlog, promote education, entrepreneurship, and employment opportunities, and ensure responsive, expedient, and effective services for veterans. The Congressional Post-9/11 Veterans Caucus will join forces to better serve our newest generation of veterans. Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard and Congressman Scott Perry, both veterans of the Iraq war, will serve as Co-Chairs of the Congressional Post-9/11 Veterans Caucus.
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles) made the following statement after Republican Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price released House Republicans’ budget plan for the fiscal year 2016. “The bottom line of the Republican Budget? It shortchanges Californians. It does nothing to help families in Torrance who have seen their paychecks stagnate. Instead, it gifts yet another massive tax break to the top 1 percent. And the Republican plan for a single mom in Calabasas? Rip away her health care by repealing every word of the Affordable Care Act. The Republican Budget forces seniors in Los Angeles to pay more for Medicare services and prescription drugs. Students in Santa Monica – already facing a mountain of student debt – will see tuition increases and programs cut. And the Republican Budget ignores the biotech entrepreneur in El Segundo seeking a crucial federal investment in cutting edge science. A budget is a statement of values and vision. Hardworking Californians – hardworking Americans from coast to coast – deserve a budget that guarantees health security and retirement, expands economic and educational opportunity and delivers a fair share of the American dream. That’s what Democrats in Congress are proposing; that’s what we are fighting for.”
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) and Congressman Steve Russell (R | OK-5) sent a letter to Admiral Michael Rogers, Director of the NSA. As veterans and members of Government Oversight & Reform’s National Security Subcommittee, Rep. Lieu and Rep. Russell are concerned about recent allegations that the NSA has potentially searched every email sent by Americans to an overseas address. These allegations came to light late last week in a lawsuit filed by both progressive and conservative groups against the NSA in federal court. In their letter, Rep. Lieu and Rep. Russell ask the following questions of Admiral Rogers: Does the NSA seize private internet communications from Americans who send such communications overseas? If the answer to the first question is yes, does the NSA have particularized warrants on each American that allows it to seize the internet communications? What is the legal authority upon which the NSA relies to justify its internet bulk collection program? Are internet providers informed of this internet bulk collection program? For full text of Lieu, Russell NSA letter, click here.
03.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) made the following statement in response to the news that 11 service members aboard an Army Black Hawk helicopter that crashed in waters off the Florida Panhandle two days ago are believed lost. “I am saddened by the loss of seven Marines and four soldiers involved in a helicopter crash during a training exercise in Florida. A thorough investigation will be needed to determine the cause of the crash, but what we know already is that these service members represented the best of our military. The flight crew served multiple tours in Iraq and humanitarian missions here in the U.S., while the marines were part of the elite Special Operations Command. Their loss is our loss, and I extend my deepest condolences to the families and friends of those killed. I hope those affected take solace in the fact that a grateful and indebted nation mourns with them.”
03.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) made the following statement in response to the UCLA Undergraduate Students Association Council unanimously passing a resolution condemning all forms of anti-Semitism. “I applaud the UCLA student government for passing a resolution condemning all forms of anti-Semitism. As a society we need to recognize anti-Semitism, condemn it, and eliminate it. Not only is anti-Semitism abhorrent, but it violates federal law. We have seen a number of recent incidents on college campuses, and it is incumbent on students, faculty, administrators, and elected officials to stand up to such hate. Each and every student, whether at UCLA or any other university, deserves fair and equal treatment. When it comes to intolerance, we must embrace a zero tolerance policy—particularly at our centers of learning and inquiry.”
03.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) made the following statement in response to the news that the ACLU and numerous plaintiffs have issued a legal challenge to another NSA mass surveillance program. “As a Member of the National Security Subcommittee of the House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform, I am profoundly concerned by any evidence that the constitutional rights of American citizens are being violated in the name of national security. In today’s lawsuit, the ACLU and other plaintiffs charge that the National Security Agency (NSA) – in an apparent search and seizure of mass internet traffic – has ensnared countless private communications from US citizens. If these charges are true, this NSA program violates the scope of authority that Congress provided in the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 and the U.S. Constitution. I respect and commend the women and men at the NSA and our intelligence agencies for keeping Americans safe. However, it is imperative that all federal employees – including those in the intelligence field – understand that their highest duty is to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. As more facts about this latest NSA program come to light, if it turns out the NSA is violating our Constitutional rights, then Congress must be vigilant in reshaping or eliminating the program so that it does not violate the Constitution.”
03.06.2015	DISTRICT SCHEDULE – MARCH 7-14, 2015 Saturday, March 7, 2015 11:30 a.m. – Congressman Lieu attends the Natural Products Expo West in Anaheim, California. 5:30 p.m. – Congressman Lieu attends the Fourteenth Annual Carmen and Louis Warschaw Distinguished Lecture. Speakers are former U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ) and her husband, U.S. Navy Captain and astronaut Mark Kelly. Tuesday, March 10, 2015 Air Force Reserve Duty Friday, March 13, 2015 Air Force Reserve Duty ###
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) and Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D | CA-43) sent a letter to the Chairman Rafael Moure-Eraso of the U.S. Chemical Safety Board (CSB) requesting that the agency investigate the root causes of the February 18, 2015 explosion at the ExxonMobil refinery in Torrance, CA and make recommendations to increase refinery process and public safety. The February incident, which hospitalized four workers and covered the surrounding residential neighborhoods with “catalyst dust,” was the third explosion in the Torrance refinery’s history and the third explosion at a U.S. refinery this year. A CSB investigation would contribute to Congress’ understanding of why U.S. refineries have a significantly higher accident rate than those in Europe. Letter Highlights “An investigation by CSB would complement the investigation into worker safety conditions already underway by the California Division of Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA) and contribute significantly to Congress’ understanding of process safety at petroleum refineries throughout the country.” “Due to the plant’s proximity to the surrounding community, the accident had the potential to cause substantial property damage and deaths and injuries among the general public” “The Torrance plant was also the third U.S. refinery to experience an explosion this year, the latest in a trend of major incidents at petroleum refineries in recent years.” Full Text of Lieu / Waters CSB Letter ###
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) and Congressman Peter Roskam (R | IL-6) joined with eight additional House colleagues in sending a letter to Commissioner Margaret Hamburg of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) seeking further information and ideas from the FDA on how best to prevent fatal outbreaks of antibiotic resistant bacteria, or superbugs. In their letter, the lawmakers wrote: “There have been a disturbing number of fatal outbreaks of antibiotic resistant bacteria. Many of these outbreaks have been linked to the use of contaminated duodenoscopes. An outbreak occurred at the UCLA Ronald Reagan Medical Center last week, following a string of other recent outbreaks across the country, including cases in Illinois, Washington State, and Pennsylvania. We share the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) interest to effectively prevent the spread of infection, and we respectfully request the Agency’s assistance in taking any and all steps that will help society reach that goal. As Members of Congress concerned about these deadly outbreaks, we write to both seek answers from the FDA regarding current and future sanitization protocols, and to create a partnership that works towards finding comprehensive solutions to keep Americans safe from the threat of superbugs.” The most recent superbug outbreak was reported this week at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. This latest incident follows a string of other recent outbreaks across the country, including cases in Illinois, Washington State, Wisconsin, North Carolina, Florida and Pennsylvania. Full Text of Lieu / Roskam FDA Letter
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – This afternoon, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles announced that four patients have been infected with a dangerous superbug and that an additional 68 people may have been exposed. This discovery comes just two weeks after it was reported that a similar superbug at UCLA killed two people and infected seven others. Both outbreaks were caused by CRE bacteria that were transmitted by contaminated Olympus duodenoscopes. As a result, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D - CA|33) made the following statement: "In the wake of another superbug outbreak at Cedars-Sinai Hospital, first and foremost, my thoughts and prayers are with the patients and their families who have been affected. I hope for their speedy recovery. These continuing outbreaks demonstrate that the issue of superbugs is much larger than even first thought. The fact that this outbreak happened at Cedars-Sinai, which is in my district and is one of the best medical facilities in the world, demonstrates how grave this issue is and how urgently it needs to be addressed. That is why I met with incoming FDA Commissioner Ostroff today to discuss ways to combat superbugs. I was heartened by the focus and seriousness with which the incoming Commissioner is treating this issue. I look forward to working with him and other stakeholders. I am also calling for oversight hearings in Congress on superbugs. I am hopeful that these hearings will take place soon."
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) made the following statement in response to a report issued by the Concerned Veterans of America (CVA) calling for the privatization of veterans’ care in America. The CVA is a partisan political organization largely funded by Charles and David Koch. “As an Air Force Veteran and the Member of Congress representing the nation’s largest VA hospital, I oppose any effort to privatize VA. My opposition to privatization is guided by the voices of veteran leaders in my district, who understand that urgent improvements at VA are the answer, not tearing the VA system down brick by brick. The privatization plan proposed by Concerned Veterans for America (CVA) is not a credible way to guarantee the best care for America’s veterans. The CVA plan caters to the whims of the billionaire Koch Brothers and fails to put Veterans and their needs first. Our nation’s warriors deserve timely access to the highest quality care, not an unserious solution cooked up by partisan ideologues.”
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C - Today, Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) released the following statement on the death of actor Leonard Nimoy. Mr. Nimoy died earlier today at his home in Bel Air, California. He was 83. “Leonard Nimoy was an incredibly talented artist and contributed enormously to the Los Angeles community throughout his life. I was deeply saddened today to hear of his passing. Mr. Nimoy was a constituent of mine and a longtime resident of the 33rd District. I grew up watching Star Trek, and Mr. Nimoy’s iconic portrayal of Mr. Spock brought joy to millions of people worldwide. I also want to celebrate Mr. Nimoy’s work on behalf of the Jewish community. His memory will most certainly ‘live long and prosper.’ My thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Susan, his two children and six grandchildren at this difficult time.” ###
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | CA-33) sent a letter to Chairman Jason Chaffetz and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (OGR) requesting a hearing on the multiple sterilization failures of a medical device known as the duodenoscope. The sterilization problems have led to multiple deaths nationwide and repeated outbreaks of antibiotic-resistant bacteria a.k.a. “superbugs.” “Addressing the problems posed by duodenoscope-linked superbug outbreaks is one step forward in combating the health and national security threats posed by antibiotic-resistant bacteria,” writes Congressman Lieu. “I call upon the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to fully investigate these life and death issues.” Why a Full Investigation is Needed · Duodenoscope-linked outbreaks have occurred multiple times in our nation over the last few years, including in Pennsylvania, Illinois, North Carolina and Washington State. · Recently, at the UCLA Medical Center in Westwood, CA, seven patients were infected and two were killed by a deadly bacterial outbreak of Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE), also known as a “superbug.” · CRE is contagious, especially in hospital settings. The UCLA Medical Center deadly superbug outbreak is linked to duodenoscopes that were not thoroughly sterilized. · Duodenoscope-linked CRE outbreaks have national security ramifications. President Obama issued an executive order on September 18, 2014 stating, “combating antibiotic-resistant bacteria is a national security priority.” · The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a safety alert regarding the duodenoscope after the recent publication of a Los Angeles Times investigation. More Information · The UCLA Ronald Reagan Medical Center is located in Congressman Lieu’s district. · The full text of Congressman Lieu’s letter requesting an OGR Hearing can be found here.
02.19.2015	LOS ANGELES – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (CA-33) has issued the following statement in light of the explosion at the Torrance Exxon Mobil Refinery: “First and foremost, I am thankful the injuries sustained in the explosion were minor. I hope for the speedy recovery of all those affected. My office has been in contact with the Department of Homeland Security, the Environmental Protection Agency, Exxon Mobil and local officials. I will continue to monitor the situation and the ongoing investigation. My office stands ready to provide any assistance as needed. I also note this is the third explosion at this refinery since 1988. I hope the resulting investigation will help prevent future explosions at this refinery.” ###
02.13.2015	Dear Friend, It is an honor and a privilege to serve as the new Member of Congress representing California’s 33rd Congressional District. I am following in the great legacy of Henry Waxman and look forward to serving you as he did. This is an amazing district, with beautiful coastlines, mountains, and many of Southern California’s signature industries, such as biotech, aerospace, technology, tourism, and entertainment. I have served you in the California State Assembly and State Senate for the past nine years, and I look forward to continuing to fight for you in the United States House of Representatives. I would like to invite you to meet my staff and me on Sunday, March 1 at Royce Hall at the University of California, Los Angeles. We will hold a District Swearing-In Ceremony at 2:00pm followed by a reception where you can talk with our team and learn about the different services our office provides. There will be a special introduction by actor Tim Robbins, musical performances, and remarks from Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Congresswoman Karen Bass, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Congressman Xavier Becerra and other elected officials and special guests. Please use this link to RSVP. Representative democracy requires the free exchange of ideas between the people and their representatives. I need to hear your concerns and I would like to communicate my views to you. Please visit my webpage at www.lieu.house.gov to sign up to receive periodic updates from me. You can also learn about my policy positions and the services offered at my District Offices. It is truly an honor to represent you. Ted W. Lieu Member of Congress
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) issued the following statement regarding the continued closure of the Long Beach and Los Angeles ports by the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA). PMA announced this morning that ships at Southern California ports will not be unloaded on Thursday, Saturday, Sunday, or Monday, when dockworkers are entitled to overtime pay. This weekend’s closure comes in addition to previous port shutdowns by PMA last weekend. “PMA’s pattern of shutting down the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles is unacceptable and needlessly hurts businesses in Southern California,” said Congressman Lieu. “The economy is just getting back up to speed, but imagine how much better our local economic growth would be without these indefensible roadblocks. Each day, millions of dollars are being lost as local businesses - small and large - struggle to stock their shelves because merchandise is stuck at the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles. All parties must return to the negotiating table and forge a compromise that works for businesses, workers and their families.” Congressman Lieu released a previous statement on the port shutdowns on Saturday, February 8.
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu hosted a meeting between Democratic members and the Board of Trustees of Agudath Israel of America. Issues discussed were preserving social services, combatting global Anti-Semitism, support for Israel, Iran sanctions, and increased funding for education. “Agudath Israel is a leader in the Jewish community and very active in my district, so I was honored to be able to bring their leadership together with Members of Congress to make sure their voices were heard and their leadership got to know some of the new Members,” said Congressman Lieu. Freshman Congressmen Lieu and Brendan Boyle (D-PA) addressed the trustees, as well as Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Congressman Ted Deutch (D-FL), Congressman Alan Grayson (D-FL) and Congressman Brad Sherman (D-CA). Founded in 1922, Agudath Israel serves as an advocacy organization for the Orthodox Jewish community ensuring access to services and advocating for religious freedom. Photos of the event can be found on Congressman Lieu’s Flickr Page.
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-33) has issued the following statement in response to the Administration’s new AUMF proposal: “President Obama has shown consistent thoughtfulness and care in dealing with national security challenges as our Commander in Chief. However, as currently drafted, I cannot support the Administration’s proposed authorization for the use of force against the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The Administration’s proposal potentially authorizes the deployment of unlimited ground troops in Iraq and Syria (and anywhere else in the Middle East) by this President and our next President for the next three years, while at the same time restricting the actions of those ground troops. As a member of Congress, a graduate of Air War College and a former active duty Air Force officer, I believe we can only put American daughters and sons in harm’s way to confront the gravest of threats. ISIL’s actions are repugnant and should be confronted. At present, however, I do not believe the Administration has made the case that ISIL represents a direct, grave threat to our nation. I look forward to continuing this discussion with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress.” Congressman Ted Lieu serves on the House Committees on the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform. He is also the Democratic Freshman Class President.
02.08.2015	Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Torrance) issued the following statement today regarding PMA's decision to suspend all vessel work from 5:00 p.m. February 6 to 8:00 a.m. February 9. “Our ports are critical to Southern California’s economy, and the safety and speed at which goods move through our ports affect large regions of the United States. PMA’s intentional action to close the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles over the weekend is indefensible. PMA’s obstructionist action not only hurts ILWU workers, it will hurt businesses, consumers, and our economy. PMA’s shutdown action is especially counterproductive when the parties seem close to resolving the remaining issues between them. I condemn the weekend lockout and urge PMA to focus their efforts at resolving this impasse at the negotiating table, rather than hurting businesses, consumers and working families.” Congressman Lieu serves on the House Committee on the Budget, and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. He is also the Democratic Freshman Class President.
02.02.2015	Washington – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) issued the below statement following the release of President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2016 Budget: “I am very pleased the President’s Budget speaks to the job creators in our nation: the middle class. By cutting taxes for working families, rebuilding infrastructure, investing in research, and establishing new manufacturing hubs, the President’s Budget will increase jobs and middle class paychecks. This, in turn, creates the massive consumer demand necessary to sustain and increase America’s growth. Without demand, no product will sell well, no matter how cool it is. The basic law of supply and demand in economics means that America only succeeds when middle class families succeed. The President also smartly stops the sequestration cuts in the budget. The across-the-board cuts are misguided because not all programs, services, and federal departments are the same. Some services save lives, some do not; some programs are important, but others are critical. Treating everything in the budget exactly the same is irrational. Sequestration is also dangerous because this budgetary meat cleaver has degraded our military at a time when America and her allies are under constant attack by terrorist networks. As an Air Force officer in the Reserves, I have already seen the negative impact on military readiness at Los Angeles Air Force Base. The 33rd Congressional District is also home to some of the most advanced technologies in the world that have helped save the lives of our troops. It is time to stop hurting the companies that are so critical to our military. As a Veteran, I commend the President for investing in the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President has set an ambitious goal: ending Veterans homelessness. This budget helps to provide the resources to ensure that those who served our nation do not sleep on our streets.” Congressman Lieu serves on the House Committees on the Budget, and Oversight and Government Reform. He is also the Democratic Freshman Class President and a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force Reserves.
01.28.2015	Los Angeles, CA – Today, Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert A. McDonald visited the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center to announce that a groundbreaking settlement has been reached by the parties in the pending appeal in Valentini v. McDonald. The agreement will address ending homelessness among Veterans in Los Angeles and will include the development of a comprehensive master plan followed by robust implementation. “I am delighted that Secretary McDonald has come to Los Angeles to announce that this nearly four-year-old lawsuit has finally been resolved. I fully intend to actively participate in the development of the master plan and ensure the process is both transparent and inclusive. The implementation that follows must be done with the urgency our nation’s heroes deserve,” said Congressman Lieu. “Secretary McDonald deserves a tremendous amount of credit for this positive development. I would also like to thank the Veterans who brought this case, as well as their advocates, including Mark Rosenbaum, formerly with the ACLU; Gary Blasi, UCLA School of Law Emeritus; Bobby Shriver; John Ulin and James Finsten with Arnold & Porter; Dave Sapp with the ACLU; Ron Olson with Munger, Tolles & Olson; Melissa Tyner and Amos Hartson with the Inner City Law Center; and Laurence Tribe with Harvard Law School.” “This is a new day for the Veterans of Los Angeles.” The West Los Angeles VA Medical Center is located in California’s 33rd Congressional District, which is represented by Congressman Lieu. Congressman Lieu serves on the House Committees on Budget, and Oversight & Government Reform. He is also the Democratic Freshman Class President.
01.26.2015	Los Angeles, CA – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) released a letter he wrote to the House Committees on Veterans Affairs and the Budget requesting an increase in both the number of federal HUD-VASH vouchers and the amount of each voucher. Congressman Lieu stated: “HUD-VASH vouchers are an essential part of the ‘housing first’ model and have proven effective in reducing Veterans homelessness by providing both housing and supportive services. These vouchers are critical to helping reduce the large population of homeless Veterans in Los Angeles County.” Congressman Lieu also met with senior staff at the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center, including Acting Network Director Skye McDougall, Deputy Network Director Randy Quinton, and Medical Center Chief of Staff Dr. Dean Norman. During the meeting, Congressman Lieu discussed a number of issues with the leadership team, specifically offering his assistance in developing a comprehensive master plan for the campus. Bob McDonald, Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, will visit the facility on Wednesday. “I was very impressed with this leadership team’s commitment to serving Veterans experiencing homelessness and to deliver quality health care to all Veterans. I look forward to collaborating with them to improve services for our Veterans, to develop a comprehensive master plan for the property, and ensure that no one who served this country has to sleep on the streets,” said Congressman Lieu. The West Los Angeles VA Medical Center is located in California’s 33rd Congressional District, which is represented by Congressman Lieu. Congressman Lieu serves on the House Committees on the Budget, and Oversight and Government Reform. He is also the Democratic Freshman Class President.
01.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) announced his appointment to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform for the 114th Congress. As the primary investigative body for the House of Representatives, the Committee has the authority to scrutinize any matter within the jurisdiction of standing House committees. The Committee has historically served as a critical check on the powers of the legislative and executive branches as well as abuses of the public trust by private companies. “I am truly honored by the opportunity to serve on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,” said Congressman Lieu. “I look forward to working with Chairman Chaffetz, Ranking Member Cummings, and my fellow committee members to eliminate wasteful spending, protect consumer rights, and expose fraud and abuse.” “I am especially pleased to be appointed to a committee that was formerly chaired by my predecessor, Congressman Henry A. Waxman. As Chairman, Congressman Waxman exposed the dangers of smoking and the deceptive practices of tobacco companies, investigated steroid use in professional baseball, and revealed widespread fraud in government contracts in Iraq and in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Congressman Waxman was interested in accountability to the public, from both government and the private sector. I look forward to continuing his work on behalf of the people of California’s 33rd Congressional District.” The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is Congressman Lieu’s second committee appointment for the 114th Congress. Congressman Lieu also serves on the House Committee on the Budget and is the freshman class President.
01.22.2015	Washington – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) released the following statement regarding the announcement by Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Bob McDonald of his upcoming visit to West Los Angeles next week: “I want to thank Secretary McDonald for showing his commitment to the Veterans of Los Angeles by visiting the West Los Angeles VA Medical Center. Based on our conversations over the past couple of weeks, we share a common goal when it comes to addressing Veterans homelessness and improving the quality of services to our Veterans. I welcome the Secretary to LA and I look forward to working with him and other stakeholders, including Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, to find ways to effectively deliver the care and benefits our Veterans have earned and deserve, and to end Veterans’ homelessness.” The West Los Angeles VA Medical Center is located in California’s 33rd Congressional District, which is represented by Congressman Lieu. Ted Lieu is the President of the Freshman Class and serves on the Budget Committee and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) issued the below statement following President Obama’s State of the Union Address: “Tonight was my first State of the Union as a member of the United States House of Representatives. I was honored to participate in this time-honored tradition and was moved by President Obama’s words. The President spoke to issues that are important to my constituents in California’s 33rd Congressional District, such as investing in middle class families by making Community College and mortgages more affordable, expanding access to paid sick leave, and investing in critical infrastructure. As an Air Force Veteran and Reservist, I was especially pleased that the President addressed the needs of our Veterans in his State of the Union. We owe so much to those who have sacrificed for our country, and we have not fully lived up to those promises. Reducing Veterans’ homelessness will continue to be one of my key priorities. The brave men and women who have served our country in uniform should not be sleeping on our streets. As someone who earned a degree in computer science, I have long worried about the security of our networks and databases. I am glad to see the President being proactive on cyber security and protecting America’s intellectual property and guarding against identity theft. I look forward to working with the President and leaders on both sides of the aisle to implement an agenda that invests in America’s middle class.”
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles) issued the following statement today regarding the ongoing West Coast ports contract negotiations between the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) and the Pacific Merchant Association (PMA): “Our ports are the economic lifeblood of Southern California. Many businesses are impacted by the safety of our ports and the speed in which goods pass through them on their way in and out of Los Angeles and Long Beach. The sooner that the ILWU and PMA can resolve their seven month long negotiations over a contract that expired in July of 2014, the sooner that our businesses and consumers can get the products and goods sitting in our ports. Like Representatives Janice Hahn and Alan Lowenthal, I too am disappointed to hear that PMA may not be doing its part to ensure that business in the port continues as usual during these negotiations. I urge PMA to put the businesses and working people of the region first, and work with ILWU to negotiate a new contract quickly. I also urge PMA to do all it can to ensure that shifts continue around the clock to ensure that the goods arriving in our ports get to market as quickly as possible. Eliminating or reducing night shifts just as our economy is starting to perk up will only serve to reverse economic growth, increase congestion and reduce income for hundreds of dock workers and their families. Southern California needs working ports. I urge the parties to redouble their efforts and commit to working out their differences for the sake of the entire region.” Congressman Lieu represents the cities of Malibu, Santa Monica, Calabasas, Agoura Hills, Beverly Hills, as well as the beach cities and Palos Verdes peninsula and the City of Los Angeles, including the neighborhoods of San Pedro, Pacific Palisades, Venice, Westwood, Beverly-Fairfax, Bel Air, Brentwood and Hancock Park.
01.14.2015	Washington – Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) released the following statement after meeting with Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Bob McDonald: “Secretary McDonald and I had a very productive discussion about the Greater Los Angeles VA and how we can live up to our promise to take care of those who have sacrificed so much for our country. It is clear from my conversation with the Secretary that he cares deeply about our homeless Veterans. There are a lot of challenges in Los Angeles – and across the country – when it comes to assisting our nation’s homeless Veterans, but I believe Secretary McDonald is moving the Department in the right direction. I invited him to come to my district, which has more homeless Veterans than any other in the country, in order to tour the West LA VA campus, one of the largest in the nation. I look forward to working with the Secretary and other stakeholders, including Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, to find ways to effectively deliver the care and benefits our Veterans have earned and deserve, and to end Veterans’ homelessness.” The West Los Angeles VA Medical Center is located in California’s 33rd Congressional District, which is represented by Congressman Lieu.
01.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles) announced that he will be appointed to the first of his two committees in the 114th Congress: the House Committee on the Budget. The Constitution gives the power of the purse to the House of Representatives and the Budget Committee is central to implementing that Constitutional charge. The Committee addresses some of America’s most important issues, including our nation’s spending and revenue levels, Social Security and Medicare funding, and infrastructure investment. The Committee is term limited; Members may only serve on the House Committee on the Budget for six years. “I am pleased to welcome Congressman Lieu to the House Budget Committee,” said Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). “Ted will bring a broad array of legislative and budget experience to the Committee and provide an important voice as we debate the priorities for our nation.” “I am thrilled to be appointed to such a crucial committee where I can put my prior budget and legislative experience to work to help all Americans,” said Congressman Lieu. “In California—the eighth largest economy in the world—we put our fiscal house in order by investing in core priorities instead of giving tax breaks to the ultra-wealthy. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to set national budget policy that raises the wages of the middle class; protects Medicare and Social Security, and invests in infrastructure, education, and innovation.” Prior to Congress, Lieu served nine years in the State Assembly and State Senate. Lieu was recently elected as Democratic Freshman Class President.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
01.06.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu was officially sworn in as the Representative of California’s 33rd Congressional District. “It is a great honor to be elected by the people of the 33rd Congressional District. Succeeding Henry Waxman will not be an easy task, but I will do all that I can to honor his legacy,” said Congressman Lieu, who was recently elected Democratic freshman class president. “This is an amazing district, with beautiful coastlines, mountains, and many of Southern California’s signature industries, such as biotech, aerospace, technology, tourism, and entertainment,” continued Congressman Lieu. “I have served the people in the California State Assembly and State Senate for the past nine years, and I look forward to continuing to fight for them in the United States House of Representatives.” “I will work with my colleagues in Congress to create jobs, address climate change, improve our transportation and infrastructure, and pass comprehensive immigration reform. On those issues in which we agree, I will work with my Republican colleagues. On those issues in which we cannot reach agreement, I will fight for our Democratic values. I will not yield when it comes to defending a woman’s right to choose, standing up for the environment and protecting Social Security and Medicare. It is a deep honor to represent the people, and I am going to spend every day dedicating myself to improving the lives of families in the 33rd District and across our country.” The 33rd Congressional District stretches along the Los Angeles coast, from Malibu to Venice and Santa Monica to the Beach Cities, Torrance and the Palos Verdes Peninsula. It includes the cities of Beverly Hills, Calabasas, and Agoura Hills and parts of western Los Angeles City such as the neighborhoods of Westwood Village, Bel Air, Miracle Mile, Pacific Palisades, Topanga, and Hancock Park. ###
