02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence voted on a privileged resolution to terminate President Trump’s emergency declaration to fund his expensive, wasteful and ineffective border wall. “I swore an oath to defend our Constitution, and that’s why I was proud to join my colleagues in voting to reject Trump’s fake emergency. The President’s emergency declaration is a desperate, defiant and disgraceful attempt by a president who has gone outside the bounds of the law to try to get what he failed to achieve in the constitutional legislative process. Democrats have always been strong on border security, but the President seems more concerned about keeping his campaign promise for a wasteful wall than keeping our borders secure. “The President is declaring an emergency over a crisis that does not exist. Border crossings are down to one-fifth of what they were in 2000, and apprehensions are at their lowest level in more than four decades. Instead of protecting our national security, the President’s declaration makes America less safe. The President would be undermining America’s national security by stealing billions from high-priority military construction projects that ensure our troops have the essential training, readiness and quality of life necessary to keep the American people safe. This matter is not about partisanship or politics; this is about patriotism. It is our duty as elected officials to protect our Constitution and the American people.” ###
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) released a statement on Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) and the City of Detroit’s memorandum of understanding to build new auto assembly plant and retool existing plant in Detroit. “Today, Mayor Duggan announced a new deal pending between the city of Detroit and FCA for the first new assembly plant in Detroit in 30 years. I was excited to hear about this investment in the development of surrounding communities in Detroit and Michigan’s 14th district. The new Mack Avenue Engine and Jefferson North plants will create 5,000 new jobs for Detroit residents. Michigan is a leader for automotive manufacturing and innovation, and it is important that we continue to show what the Motor City has to offer. “Thank you to FCA, Mayor Duggan, Detroit Economic Growth Corporation (DEGC) and the countless others who have chosen to invest in Detroit. Residents deserve to have access to jobs and not have to be displaced from their homes. This development is a step in the right direction for the budding city of Detroit, and I am excited to the new initiatives that will benefit not only the residents of Detroit but the state of Michigan together.” ### Background: if parties proceed to development agreement, FCA expected to invest $2.5 Billion to build new auto assembly plant and retool existing plant in Detroit with zero displacement of residents. Total investment at Mack Avenue Engine and Jefferson North plants would be single largest FCA has made in the U.S. since Great Recession. Mack Avenue Engine Complex would be converted into new vehicle assembly plant. Mack project would be first new assembly plant built in Detroit in almost three decades, first in Michigan in 13 years and first in U.S. since 2011. New plant, along with Jefferson North, would firmly establish FCA as the only auto company with a significant manufacturing presence in Detroit. Subject to the execution of the terms outlined in the MOU, the city expects FCA to invest $1.6 billion to convert the current Mack Avenue Engine Complex into a vehicle assembly plant for production of the next generation Jeep Grand Cherokee and an all-new 3-row full-size SUV along with plug-in hybrid (PHEV) models. Construction of the new facility could begin in the second quarter of 2019. In addition, the Company would invest $900 million to modernize its Jefferson North plant. The total investment is expected to add nearly 5,000 new jobs in the city. Deal contingent on City delivering proposed site to FCA within 60 days and negotiation of development incentives.
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) statement on the House passage of bipartisan, bicameral bill to keep the government open. “Today, the House passed a bill to prevent a second senseless Trump Shutdown while securing our borders and honoring our American values. While far from perfect, this agreement represents the best compromise to fund our government in a responsible way and maintaining security at the border. “Democrats were able to secure key victories on the Homeland Security portion of the bill, including a denial for the billions of dollars the President demanded for his wasteful and ineffective wall and also securing key investments for our national security. Democrats pushed and were successful in providing a path to a reduction in ICE detention beds to provide a stronger check on the Trump Administration’s reckless deportation and detention policy. Democrats were also successful in negotiating funding for a more humane immigration system with enhanced support for migrants and particularly children with food, clothing, transportation and medical treatment. “This bill passed now in both the House and Senate also delivers a pay raise for federal workers, helps to build safer communities and invests in rebuilding America’s infrastructure. This bill also helps support small businesses and protects our environment by blocking deep cuts to initiatives that protect clean water, clean air and public lands. The President should sign this bipartisan, bicameral compromise to secure our borders and put a stop to the threat of another devastating Trump Shutdown.” ###
02.13.2019	“I was recently made aware by a member of the City Council and through news reports that soil being used to fill demolition sites across the city of Detroit could be contaminated. Any instances where there is credible proof that demolition sites are using contaminated soil must be addressed at all levels of government. “The safety and well-being of the citizens of Detroit, and the state of Michigan, are always of paramount importance to me as your representative in Congress. Detroiters deserve to know that their public health and safety are at the forefront of ongoing work in their communities. Anything less is unacceptable. “Individuals responsible for safely working on these demolition sites across the city must do so with proper oversight, following all applicable laws and regulations, and utilizing the safeguards that have been put in place. As a Member of Congress and Michigan representative, I will continue my due diligence by reaching out to local, state, and federal officials to properly address these concerns and ensure the safety of the citizens of Detroit.” ###
02.12.2019	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued this statement condemning anti-Semitic comments made over Twitter by Congresswoman Ilhan Omar: “The use of offensive rhetoric by Congresswoman Omar is absolutely unacceptable and we must demand better from our elected officials. Anti-Semitism, racism, bigotry, and all forms of hatred do not reflect the values of the American people and deserve the strongest condemnation. At a time when Anti-Semitic attacks in the United States and around the world are on the rise, there must be zero tolerance for divisive language or actions. “I am glad that Rep. Omar issued an apology for her comments, recognizing the reality of Anti-Semitism and the painful history of anti-Semitic rhetoric. Rep. Omar has expressed her willingness to step back, listen, and learn from her actions. As leaders, we must reject behavior that stirs division and speak, act, and lead in ways that reflect our progress.” # # #
02.07.2019	“John Dingell served in Congress with immeasurable dedication and an earnest sense of duty to his constituents, his country and his solemn oath of office. His life, legacy and example of true patriotism will never fade. “I send my most sincere condolences to his wife, my colleague, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell and to his family and loved ones. John Dingell will be greatly missed, but never forgotten” ###
02.07.2019	Washington, D.C. – Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence joined Congressmen Thomas Souzzi, Rob Woodall and Raja Krishnamoorthi in sending a bipartisan letter to U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) regarding the treatment of detainees following a sting operation set up to identify immigration fraud in Michigan. “We strongly urge DHS and ICE to provide us with regular updates of the ongoing situation and ask that these students are afforded all rights provided to them by law. I will continue to remain engaged with authorities both at the federal and local level to ensure the humane and dignified treatment of these students.” ###
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and Doug Collins (GA-09) introduced bipartisan legislation to posthumously award the “Queen of Soul” Aretha Franklin the Congressional Gold Medal in recognition of her outstanding artistic and cultural contributions. The legislation was originally introduced in August 2018 in the wake of Franklin’s passing. H.R. 1003, the Aretha Franklin Congressional Gold Medal Act would honor Franklin’s role in shaping the nation’s culturally and socially relevant discography, and highlight how she was an example to all people in how one person’s talents can make a difference in the lives of millions of people across the globe. “Aretha Franklin was soul personified and she gave us the gift of her voice, her truth and her unapologetic passion to demand compassion, love and R-E-S-P-E-C-T for women everywhere,” said Representative Lawrence. “An iconic entertainer, powerful civil rights leader and a beautiful spirit who I was privileged to call friend. She will be dearly missed, but never forgotten. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing legislation to honor her legacy with a well-deserved Congressional Gold Medal.” “Aretha Franklin will forever be remembered as a legendary icon,” said Representative Collins. Her music and her passion inspired individuals all across the nation, and I can’t think of a better way to celebrate her legacy as an artist and a civil rights advocate than by awarding her with the highest civilian honor – the Congressional Gold Medal.” “Aretha Franklin taught to world what R-E-S-P-E-C-T meant and what it was like to feel like a ‘natural woman.’ From her humble origins -- born at 406 Lucy Street in Memphis -- to her consistent place atop the Billboard charts, Aretha Franklin was truly the ‘Queen of Soul,’” said Representative Cohen. What a voice and what a passion she brought to her songs. Memphis, Detroit and the whole world lost a very bright star last year. Aretha Franklin and her family deserve this Congressional recognition.” Aretha Franklin’s music served as a 1960s call to action that inspired thousands to join civil rights movements and still maintains a social context that resonates across these movements today. Beyond her contributions to music and arts, Franklin was a philanthropic individual who supported causes related to civil rights, human health, and gender equality, in addition to causes within the creative arts. Full text of the bill is available here.
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Kamala Harris (D-CA), Debbie Stabenow, Gary Peters, and Representative Brenda Lawrence (all D-MI) introduced bicameral legislation to posthumously award the “Queen of Soul” Aretha Franklin the Congressional Gold Medal in recognition of her outstanding artistic and cultural contributions. The legislation was originally introduced in August 2018 in the wake of Franklin’s passing. The Aretha Franklin Congressional Gold Medal Act would honor Franklin’s role in shaping the nation’s culturally and socially relevant discography, and highlight her life as an example of how one person’s talents can make a difference in the lives of millions of people across the globe. “Aretha’s songs were the soundtrack of my childhood, from listening to ‘Mary Don’t You Weep,’ to standing in the living room dancing to ‘Rock Steady’ over and over again, to hearing from the Queen herself how lucky I was to be young, gifted and black,” said Senator Harris. “Aretha was simply a legend. Her work and impact will be felt for generations to come, and it’s long past time Congress honors her with the Congressional Gold Medal.” “Aretha Franklin’s voice and soul were truly larger than life,” said Senator Stabenow. “Awarding her the Congressional Gold Medal would further celebrate her legacy and recognize her contributions to the arts, civil rights and the City of Detroit. She will never be forgotten.” “Aretha Franklin was a global icon and fierce advocate for civil rights, women’s rights and the City of Detroit,” said Senator Peters. “Awarding her the Congressional Gold Medal would be an appropriate tribute to a legendary talent who will continue to inspire artists and activists for generations, and I am proud to join my colleagues in this effort to honor the Queen of Soul.” “Aretha Franklin was soul personified and she gave us the gift of her voice, her truth and her unapologetic passion to demand compassion, love and R-E-S-P-E-C-T for women everywhere,” said Representative Lawrence. “An iconic entertainer, powerful civil rights leader and a beautiful spirit who I was privileged to call friend. She will be dearly missed, but never forgotten. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing legislation to honor her legacy with a well-deserved Congressional Gold Medal.” Aretha Franklin’s music served as a 1960s call to action that inspired thousands to join civil rights movements and still maintains a social context that resonates across these movements today. Beyond her contributions to music and arts, Franklin was a philanthropic individual who supported causes related to civil rights, human health, and gender equality, in addition to causes within the creative arts. Full text of the bill is available here.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and Congressman Mike Quigley (IL-05) introduced the Get the Lead Out of Schools Act, a bill that requires the EPA to establish a lead contamination testing program for all schools and creates a grant program to help school districts conduct lead testing and assist with remediation efforts. “Our children deserve to learn in a safe and healthy learning environment. However, too many of our children are faced with the threat of damaging and irreversible health problems caused by contaminated drinking water in their schools. This is simply unacceptable,” said Rep. Lawrence. “We must do all we can to prioritize clean, safe drinking water for the future of our nation, our children in America. I’m glad to join Congressman Quigley in reintroducing the Get the Lead Out of Schools Act to help address the water infrastructure crisis that is plaguing our communities.” “Access to clean drinking water is a right, not a privilege, regardless of one’s socioeconomic status or zip code,” said Rep. Quigley. “That’s why I’m proud to join Congresswoman Lawrence in reintroducing the Get the Lead Out of Schools Act to ensure dangerous toxins don’t damage our students’ health and disrupt their education. Every step we take to raise awareness, improve consistency, and advance our lead testing programs will help make our classrooms safe ### Background: There is currently no federal law requiring the testing of drinking water in schools. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) report published in July 2018 found only 43 percent of school districts nationwide tested for lead in their schools’ drinking water in 2016 and 2017, and of those that tested, 37 percent found elevated lead levels. GAO found that 41 percent of school districts did not test for lead, while 16 percent did not know. This nationwide problem has affected school districts across the country. On August 28, 2018, the Superintendent of Detroit Public Schools Community District shut off drinking water at all 106 schools in the district after water testing revealed elevated levels of lead. Most communities are in need of resources to investigate their water infrastructure and improved guidance on remediating identified contaminant risks.
01.25.2019	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement on President Trump’s announcement to temporarily reopen the government after a 35-day long shutdown. “After the longest shutdown in government history, President Trump and the Republicans have finally taken action to put our hardworking federal employees back to work. Here in Michigan 5,000 federal workers have gone without pay and 800,000 workers nation-wide are struggling to provide for their families. The amount of economic instability and chaos the American people have endured over the past 35 days for an expensive and ineffective wall is inexcusable. In Congress, it is time for both sides of the aisle to pass legislation and funding that reflects the true needs of the people. As the majority, Democrats have voted eleven times to end the shutdown and will continue to fight by voting to pass the current resolution to reopen the government through February 15th. Democrats have always been strong on border security, but the American people should not have to suffer while those negotiations take place. The American people deserve more than 3 weeks of job security, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to opening the government and keeping it open for the good of our nation and the people.” ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence voted for a new bipartisan package to re-open government and provide $1.6 billion for key border security initiatives. The bipartisan package is based on legislation previously negotiated between House and Senate Republicans and Democrats prior to the shutdown. “We are 33 days into a senseless shutdown that is endangering our security and threatening our economy, because the President and Republicans in the Senate insist on holding the American people hostage to a wasteful, ineffective wall,” said Rep. Lawrence. “I’m working every day to end this shutdown and deliver effective border security solutions. The Senate needs to send this bipartisan package to re-open government and secure our border to the President’s desk.” The package includes $1.6 billion in key border security-related measures, as follows: $524.2 million for improvements in ports of entry: The Financial Services and General Government bill includes $524.2 million for investments in ports of entry, in order to meet the latest security requirements, improve border security, and increase capacity for vehicular traffic. $563.4 million for additional immigration judges: The Commerce-Justice-Science bill in the package includes $563.4 million to accelerate the recruitment and hiring of additional immigration judges, in order to address the backlog in processing immigration cases. $527 million for assistance to Central America: The State-Foreign Operations-Related Programs bill includes $527 million for assistance to Central America, a critical investment in addressing conditions in Central American countries that many migrants are fleeing from. The package funds all agencies outside Homeland Security through September 30. It also includes language ensuring federal employees who are working without pay or who have been furloughed receive back pay. # # #
01.17.2019	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement on her election as Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Women’s Caucus. Lawrence will be joined by Co-Chair, Rep. Debbie Lesko (R-AZ). “I am honored to be a part of this bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, joined in leadership with my colleague Congresswoman Lesko, advocating on behalf of women. Working together to support the needs of women and families is a cornerstone of our country’s overall success. I am committed to continue to collaborate in creating legislation that supports the needed and necessary goals of this Caucus. This is a historical time for women in leadership and I’m excited to be a part of this Caucus and this movement supporting fairness, justice and equality for all women.” -Congresswoman. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) “The Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues has a history of being a bipartisan forum committed to advancing the interests of women. This is a historical moment for women in Congress, and I look forward to leading this Caucus with Congresswomen Lawrence, Gonzalez-Colon, and Dean to find common ground between parties so that we can advance the lives of women and families together.” – Congresswoman Debbie Lesko (AZ-08) ### Background: Founded in 1977, the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues has been a leading advocate on issues advancing the lives of women and families. Caucus members have helped pass legislation securing tougher child support enforcement, promoting women’s health, helping women business owners, and protecting victims of domestic violence and sexual assault.
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), released the following statement after being appointed to serve on House Appropriations Subcommittees; Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development (THUD), Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS), and Interior, Environment and Related Agencies in the 116th Congress: “As the Representative of Michigan’s 14th district, I am especially passionate about efforts to protect our environment, finding solutions to America’s crumbling infrastructure, fighting for affordable housing, addressing the issues of our criminal justice system, supporting economic development and bringing manufacturing jobs back to the United States. I am excited to serve the 14th district and the American people with a strong focus on the issue areas in my appointed subcommittees under the influential Appropriations Committee. The American people deserve protections, equality and justice; and I look forward to helping to put the spotlight on the needs of the American people and finding robust solutions to some of our most challenging concerns.” ### Background: Established in 1865, The Appropriations Committee has one of the broadest jurisdictions of any committee in Congress. It is responsible for appropriating funding for most of the functions of the federal government. In the 116th Congress, the Appropriations Committee has 12 subcommittees that each have jurisdiction over a specific part of the federal government. Learn more about the Appropriations Committee here. THUD Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Jurisdiction Department of Housing and Urban Development Department of Transportation Related Agencies Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board Federal Maritime Commission National Transportation Safety Board Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation United States Interagency Council on Homelessness Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority CJS Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Jurisdiction Department of Commerce Department of Justice National Aeronautics and Space Administration National Science Foundation Related Agencies Commission on Civil Rights Equal Employment Opportunity Commission International Trade Commission Legal Services Corporation Marine Mammal Commission Office of Science and Technology Policy Office of the United States Trade Representative State Justice Institute INTERIOR Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Jurisdiction Department of the Interior (except Bureau of Reclamation and Central Utah Project) Environmental Protection Agency Related Agencies Advisory Council on Historic Preservation Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (HHS) Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board Commission of Fine Arts Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality Forest Service (USDA) Indian Health Service Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts National Capital Planning Commission National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (except Institute of Museum and Library Services) National Gallery of Art National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (HHS, formerly EPA/Superfund) Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Presidio Trust Smithsonian Institution United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Eisenhower Memorial Commission Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
01.11.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Lawrence announced she has cosponsored H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019. This bill expands background checks to cover all gun sales. Nearly 40,000 Americans were killed by someone with a gun last year alone. Expanding background checks to cover all sales is widely supported by over 90 percent of the American public and expert research has shown it is the fastest way to help keep communities safer from gun violence. “Far too many Americans have been victims of gun violence – parents, children, teachers and community leaders are worried about their safety. Background checks work and they help save lives,” said Rep. Lawrence. “I am proud to cosponsor H.R. 8, which will expand background checks and help save lives. This is a commonsense and bipartisan bill that I will fight to pass in the House so we accomplish what the American people have been demanding.” You can click here to read text of this bill. ### Background: The Gun Violence Prevention Task Force was established after the tragedy at Sandy Hook and has grown to a membership of more than 165.
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence joined House Democrats to pass the FY 2019 Department of the Interior and EPA appropriations bill to prevent the degradation of Michigan’s national parks and monuments and allow EPA to resume its critical activities in protecting clean air and clean water for Michigan families. Michigan’s $216.1 million in EPA state grants are currently at risk because of the Trump Shutdown. “Since the Trump Shutdown began, many of America’s treasured National Parks have seen degradation – filled with garbage, increasingly unsanitary conditions, and even damage to fragile ecosystems,” said Rep. Lawrence. “Also, there have been unsafe conditions for visitors in the parks. Democrats are taking swift action to honor our duty to end this chaos, keep people safe and be responsible stewards of these precious resources that are the economic and cultural heart of so many Michigan communities.” “At the same time, for over two weeks, the EPA has been unable to perform its essential, life-saving role of protecting the clean air our children breathe and the clean water that they drink,” continued Rep. Lawrence. “Yet, the President doesn’t seem to care, threatening to keep the government and its critical services for public health closed for ‘years.’ Key EPA grants to fund environment protection activities in the states cannot go out when the EPA is shut down. Our state relies on this funding every year – having received, for example, $216.1 million in FY 2017 for these grants. As long as the Trump Shutdown continues, the health and well-being of Michigan’s children remain at risk and Michigan communities will needlessly suffer.” # # #
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence joined House Democrats to pass the FY 2019 Transportation and Housing and Urban Development appropriations bills to re-open these two essential government agencies and rescue the hard-working Michigan families who are at imminent risk of being evicted while ensuring air travel and highway transportation are safe for all Americans. As we enter Day 20 of the Trump Shutdown, thousands of American workers, including essential air traffic controllers, are arriving at work to find zero dollars on their paystubs. “Throughout Michigan and across the country, the Trump Shutdown is threatening the housing security of more than four million households that depend on HUD’s rental assistance initiatives,” said Rep. Lawrence. “Among those at risk of eviction are an estimated 2.2 million low income households, including hundreds of thousands of veterans, seniors and people living with disabilities. Every day that the Trump Shutdown continues, Michigan children and families are placed in immediate danger of being thrown out on the street. Yet, the President is threatening to keep the government and its critical housing services for vulnerable families closed for ‘years.’” “While the President and Senate Republicans refuse to do their job, Democrats are acting quickly to re-open government and fulfill our responsibility to Michigan families and the American people,” continued Rep. Lawrence. “By passing today’s legislation, we are ensuring that hard-working Michiganders can travel and conduct their business safely and securely, knowing that the roads they drive on and the aircrafts they fly in are being inspected and maintained. Michiganders just want an end to the chaos and uncertainty, but President Trump doesn’t seem to know how to get the country out of this mess – nor does he seem to care.” # # #
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), released the following statement after being nominated by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic Steering Committee to serve on the House Appropriations Committee, responsible for setting funding levels for federal departments and agencies: “I am excited to be nominated to serve on the powerful and exclusive House Appropriations Committee to help support crucial funding of essential services for the people of Michigan and the 14th district. I am privileged to have the opportunity to join my colleagues to support spending bills that put the American people first. “It is imperative that adequate funding is provided for our nation’s infrastructure, healthcare, child care, education, military and investment in our developing workforce. I am committed to fight, not only for the good of the American people, but also to fight against spending efforts that would harm American families, communities and businesses. The government should work for the people, not against it; and I am excited to serve through this Democratic majority in the 116th Congress to get the job done.” ### Background: Established in 1865, The Appropriations Committee has one of the broadest jurisdictions of any committee in Congress. It is responsible for appropriating funding for most of the functions of the federal government. In the 116th Congress, the Appropriations Committee has 12 subcommittees that each have jurisdiction over a specific part of the federal government. Learn more about the Appropriations Committee here.
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence joined House Democrats to pass the FY 2019 Department of the Treasury and IRS appropriations bill to remove all doubt that hard-working Michiganders will receive their tax refunds in full and on time. Each year, about 3,816,778 Michigan households receive an average tax return of about $2,556, which will remain in jeopardy as long as the President and Senate Republicans refuse to end the Trump Shutdown and fully re-open IRS. Earlier this week, after House Democrats announced plans to pass this bill, the Trump Administration suddenly reversed its previous announcement that the IRS is unable to issue tax refunds during a shutdown; and stated it will bring back some furloughed employees. However, the only way to prevent confusion and ensure that all Americans will receive their tax refunds without delay is to fully re-open the IRS and bring all IRS employees back to work. “There should be absolutely no confusion that Michiganders will get their tax refund in full and on time, and we must re-open government,” said Rep. Lawrence. On Day One of the new Congress, the House Democratic Majority took the first steps to restore certainty to people's lives by passing a complete funding package with Senate Republicans’ language to re-open government. Yet, Senate Republicans refused to bring that bill up for a vote. Now, over the coming days, Democrats will take action to re-open all government agencies that are shut by passing individual, bipartisan appropriations bills. “The President needs to come to his senses and announce his agreement to sign the legislation to re-open the Department of the Treasury and the IRS as soon as the Senate passes this legislation,” continued Rep. Lawrence. “House Democrats believe in governing responsibly and will not allow hard-working Michiganders or the American people to be held hostage by the President’s reckless demands. We will continue to work to re-open government and keep our promise to deliver progress for all Americans.” # # #
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence joined House Democrats to take action to protect Michiganders’ health care by passing a resolution that strengthens Congress’s hand to intervene against the Republicans’ monstrous Texas v. U.S. lawsuit, which seeks to strike down the entirety of the Affordable Care Act and its life-saving protections, including for the 4,110,300 people in Michigan with pre-existing conditions. This resolution affirms the House Counsel’s authorization to intervene as a party in the lawsuit, asserting the House of Representative’s authority to defend laws it has passed and enacted into law. “The American people elected a Democratic Congress that would protect their quality, affordable health care, and put an end to the bitter Republican attacks on their care,” said Rep. Lawrence. “I am proud to stand with my colleagues to deliver that promise and give the Congress the tools it needs to defend the health care of hard-working families in Michigan. Democrats won’t stand by idly in the face of this lawsuit and the GOP’s cruel campaign to dismantle health care in our communities.” In December, a federal district court judge in Texas ruled in favor of Republicans, issuing a stayed decision that would strike down the entirety of the Affordable Care Act, including: Protections for people with pre-existing conditions; The ban on lifetime and annual limits on health coverage; The Medicaid expansion covering 15 million Americans; Health insurance affordability tax credits assisting 9 million Americans; Bans on discriminatory insurance practices that force women to pay more for coverage; Young adults’ ability to remain on their parents’ insurance until age 26, and more. “Our Democratic Congress is For The People, and we have wasted no time getting to work to protect families’ health care and financial security,” said Rep. Lawrence. “A Democratic Majority means an end to the GOP attacks on health care, and a fresh focus on lowering health costs and the price of prescription drugs, protecting people with pre-existing conditions and preserving Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. In stark contrast to the Republicans, we are delivering results for hard-working families and workers in Michigan and across America.” # # #
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence will be sworn into the 116th Congress on Thursday afternoon, January 3rd by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Speaker Pelosi will conduct an individual ceremonial swearing-in ceremony for Rep. Lawrence following the en masse oath of office on the Floor of the House of Representatives. A photo opportunity will be available with Speaker Pelosi, Rep. Lawrence and her family members to mark this historic occasion. A livestream will also be available for local television stations. Information is as follows: WHO: Speaker-designate Nancy Pelosi Members of the 116th Congress and their families WHAT: Ceremonial Swearing-in with Members of the 116th Congress WHEN: Thursday, January 3, at approximately 12:00p.m. WHERE: Rayburn Room, H-207 United States Capitol Washington, D.C. NOTE: Livestream of the swearing-in ceremony will be available here. # # #
12.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence issued the following statement, in response to a report released by the President’s Task Force on the U.S. Postal Service: “This report is the product of a secretive, closed-door process that excluded the American people. Unsurprisingly, its recommendations are not a serious effort to help the Postal Service address its long-term future. As a former employee of the Postal Service for over 30 years, I know what this public service means to people and am committed to its true success. From the beginning, the President’s Postal Task Force has been a bad-faith effort by the Trump Administration to attack our public postal service and postal workers. It is not focused on the important, long-term goal of affordable, public mail delivery for every American. Instead, the Administration began the Task Force with questionable motives and proposed privatizing the Postal Service, threatening to take away basic mail service from millions of Americans. The Task Force also refused to operate in a transparent manner and engage with Congress. As a member of the Oversight Committee, I demanded the Task Force turn over documents showing who it met with and how it came up with its recommendations, but it did not comply. The Postal Service is a government institution with a mission of public service: to ensure that all Americans can have reliable mail service, no matter who they are or where they live. Without a well-functioning public Postal Service, many Americans would lose access to affordable mail delivery that their families, businesses, and lives rely on. In contrast to this hasty and non-transparent report, I and my colleagues in Congress have spent years negotiating the bipartisan Postal Service Reform Act, which would put the Postal Service on a more sustainable path. This bill has overwhelming support from Democrats, Republicans, and postal stakeholders. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this legislation and to protect a public Postal Service for all Americans.” ### View the Task Force report on the United States Postal System. Background: Lawrence is a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Postal Service. Through that committee, she has been active in bipartisan efforts to stabilize the Postal Service and ensure it can thrive well into the future.
11.30.2018	"In light of General Motor’s announcement to end production at the Detroit-Hamtramck Assembly Plant, I have sent a letter to Governor Rick Snyder urging the state of Michigan to apply for the National Dislocated Workers Grants. These grants would help with reemploying laid off workers and enhancing their employability and earnings while also ensuring the city of Detroit and southeast Michigan have the proper resources to help the affected workers maintain their livelihood. This community and these workers deserve better. The time is now!" -Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) ### LETTER: November 30, 2018 Governor Rick Snyder Executive Office of the Governor P.O. Box 30013 Lansing, Michigan 48909 Dear Governor Snyder, I write to you regarding the stoppage of production in the Detroit-Hamtramck General Motors Assembly Plant that has helped support a crucial segment of Michigan’s economy since its opening in 1985. On November 26, 2018, General Motors (GM) announced that it would no longer allocate vehicle production to five plants: Detroit-Hamtramck, Michigan; Warren, Michigan; Oshawa, Ontario; Lordstown, Ohio; and White Marsh, Maryland. On the behalf of the 14th District of Michigan, I urge you to apply for the National Dislocated Workers Grants to assist these dislocated employees and meet the increased demand for employment and training services. GM is the primary employer in the region, and with the nationwide elimination of more than 14,000 salaried and non-salaried employees, there will be significant economic consequences for the southeast region of Michigan, and the 14th District which I represent. In the 14th District of Michigan, 1,523 people will be directly affected by the stoppage of production, while an additional 8,833 people will be impacted in related industries. Even more troubling, nearly one in five of the affected workers are 55 or older. In terms of income, more than 25 percent of the employees earn less than $40,000, with many already having to work multiple jobs to make ends meet. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Detroit has the highest poverty rate of the nation’s 20 largest cities and has an unemployment rate of more than 5 percent, compared to the state’s 3.61 percentage rate. This is unacceptable, this community and these workers deserve better. Without the proper supports at the local and state level, these workers lack the proper resources to get trained in another field placing their future in jeopardy. Established under the Workforce and Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), the National Dislocated Worker Grants (DWGs) are discrepancy grants awarded by the Secretary of Labor to provide resources to states and other eligible applicants in response to large, unexpected layoff events causing significant job losses. This grant is directly applicable to GM’s announcement with a purpose of reemploying laid off workers and enhancing their employability and earnings. DWGs will ensure the city of Detroit and southeast Michigan have the proper resources to help the affected workers maintain their livelihood. Earlier this year, Senator Sherrod Brown and Congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio in coordination with the State of Ohio’s Department of Job and Family Services, played a key role in obtaining $1.75 million in DWG grants from the U.S. Department of Labor to help their workers affected by layoffs at the GM plant in Lordstown, Ohio. We must mirror these efforts and work together to ensure we secure critical resources for our state’s workers. In the last 30 years, the Detroit-based assembly plant has employed thousands of workers and has built over 4 million vehicles. Annually, the plant’s state wages amount to an estimated $139 million, with income tax of more than $25 million. The result of these employees’ hard work is unemployment, as most workers will be displaced by June of 2019. I ask that you please consider applying for the DWGs for those affected by layoffs at GM’s Detroit-Hamtramck Assembly Plant to strengthen what would be a weakened economy and community. Thank you. Sincerely, Member of Congress Brenda L. Lawrence
11.29.2018	Washington, DC – Today, the leadership of the Democratic Women’s Working Group (DWWG), Representatives Jackie Speier (CA-14), Lois Frankel (FL-21), and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), as well as Representative Annie Kuster (NH-02) and 76 of their House colleagues sent a letter to Department of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos condemning her recently proposed rule for Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972 (Title IX). The letter urges Secretary DeVos to withdraw these dangerous proposed policy changes and arrange meetings with a broad range of survivors and survivor advocacy organizations to develop meaningful guidance on Title IX that protects all students. “This rule is a blatant attempt to silence survivors of sexual harassment and violence and force them back into the shadows. A year after the Me Too movement went viral, we will not tolerate a system that shames and blames victims,” the Representatives said. “The epidemic of sexual harassment and violence in our K-12 schools and on college campuses continues to be a threat to students’ rights to pursue their education. We cannot condone proposals that will result in fewer survivors coming forward to report their assaults and make it harder for those who do to seek justice. You must do more, not less, to ensure the safety of students across the country.” The proposed rule is Secretary DeVos’ latest attempt to roll back protections for survivors of sexual harassment and violence in our K-12 schools and on college campuses. In September of 2017, the Department of Education received over 16,000 formal comments during the public comment period on deregulation, which showed overwhelming support for the Obama Administration’s 2011 and 2014 Title IX guidance documents. This guidance built upon previous policy precedent from the Clinton and G.W. Bush administrations. Despite this support Secretary DeVos chose to rescind these critical civil rights documents and released inadequate interim guidance that has left schools and survivors in limbo for over a year. The Representatives asked Secretary DeVos to respond within two weeks of receipt of the letter. A copy of the letter is attached to this press release. The complete list of cosigners are as follows: Reps. Jackie Speier (CA-14), Lois Frankel (FL-21), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Annie Kuster (NH-02), Alma Adams (NC-12), Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24 ), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Judy Chu (CA-27), David N. Cicilline (RI-01), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), Emanuel Cleaver II (MO-05), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Jim Cooper (TN-05), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Susan Davis (CA-53), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Diana DeGette (CO-01), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02), Elizabeth H. Esty (CT-05), John Garamendi (CA-03), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Raul M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Denny Heck (WA-10), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Henry C. "Hank" Johnson (GA-04), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Al Lawson Jr. (FL-05), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Betty McCollum (MN-04), James P. McGovern (MA-02), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Grace Meng (NY-06), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Bill Pascrell Jr. (NJ-09), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Jacky Rosen (NV-03), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Linda Sanchez (CA-38), Janice Schakowsky (IL-O9), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Adam Smith (WA-09), Darren Soto (FL-09), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Norma Torres (CA-35), Juan Vargas (CA-51), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Peter J. Visclosky (IN-01), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Fredrica S. Wilson (FL-24), and John Yarmuth (KY-03). ###
11.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (D-MI) made the following statement after General Motor’s announcement about job cuts: “As many prepare to enjoy this holiday season with family and friends, thousands of autoworkers abruptly received word that they must now prepare to be unemployed. This decision will have a profoundly damaging effect on American workers and families; many of whom live in communities in dire need of more job opportunities, not less. As the Representative of constituents who will be directly affected by the Metro Detroit area plant closures, this decision is an especially hard-hit home to the Motor City and many Michiganders. Too many hard-working Americans face challenges in safeguarding worker’s rights and job security protections all while dealing with the daily trials of income inequality. This is a time for us to come together and do all we can to support our American workforce. I have spoken with the UAW Regional Director in Michigan, and I look forward to working with them to find solutions and support for those who have been affected by these closures and cuts. “Innovation and upward mobility of our American companies is certainly important for our economy; however, this success should not be at the expense of our American workforce. I have personally reached out to the GM CEO to speak on this matter and am awaiting a response. Also, Congress must do more to ensure that our laws and regulations protect our American workers as our auto industries continue their legacy as one of the great prides of our nation. We will continue to be engaged on the frontlines in support of our American workforce.” ###
11.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and Stacey Plaskett (VI) led a letter to President Donald Trump which raises concerns with his denigrating treatment of journalists, specifically his recent berating of three African American women journalists; Abby Phillip, April Ryan and Yamiche Alcindor. Equally important, the letter calls for an apology to these three women and to the American public. “African American women in the United States have historically endured the duality of race and gender discrimination, intimidation and humiliation. President Trump has a history of berating and insulting women and minorities and his recent rhetoric only serves to perpetuate the deprecation of women, in particular African American women. As Vice Chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group (DWWG), an Executive Board Member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and as an African American woman, I believe it is my duty to stand up and speak out against this kind of damaging and dangerous rhetoric. I am proud to join my colleagues in the DWWG and the CBC to make a clear and bold statement that these kinds of attacks are simply unacceptable.” -Rep. Brenda L. Lawrence “The freedom of the press should not be sacrificed because the President condemns its role in the world. The press is a mule used to express the sentiments of not only African Americans, but the American people. African American female journalists have changed the course of history through literature, spoken word and on the media. We will continue to advocate on behalf of the women that tell our story and the story of the American people.” -Rep. Stacey Plaskett Lawrence and Plaskett were joined in sending the letter by 23 colleagues from the Democratic Women’s Working Group and the Congressional Black Caucus. Full text of the letter and signatories can be found here. ###
10.27.2018	October 27, 2018 | Press Release Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), released a statement about the deadly shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh. “My heart breaks for the families of those killed today at the synagogue in Pittsburgh and I’m praying for the speedy recovery of those injured. It is both disheartening and unacceptable how hate is being spread across our country today. Hatred and antisemitism are not American values. I’m reaching out to my Michigan congressional colleagues from both parties so that we can take a concerted, bipartisan stand. This violence must be stopped. We must have protections for all people of this country, including families in places of worship. I’m reaching out to our Jewish community leaders and our Oakland County Sheriff, to ensure safety precautions are in place for the many synagogues throughout my district and to reaffirm my commitment to tackle antisemitism in our midst. Our Detroit region’s rich religious diversity is one of our strengths. I will continue to embrace that religious diversity, and keep working to ensure it brings us together and never tears us apart. The Constitution of the United States and the First Amendment enshrines freedom of religion and freedom of assembly; I took a solemn oath to uphold and protect those freedoms and I reaffirm that commitment.” ###
10.26.2018	Washington, D.C. (Oct. 26, 2018)—Today, all Members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform issued the following statement in response to multiple pipe bombs targeting government officials, press outlets, and others: “In light of the terrorist acts of the last 48 hours, we are issuing this united statement to condemn in the strongest terms any actions that threaten to commit violence against the people of the United States, including current or former elected officials, members of the media, individual Americans, or anyone else—regardless of their political background or position. Just as importantly, we strongly condemn any rhetoric by current or former elected officials, members of the media, individual Americans, or anyone else that condones, excuses, or encourages such violence. As Americans, we believe that when our nation comes under attack, we are strongest when we stand together.” ###
10.15.2018	***Anticipated changes to Title IX rules could come as soon as this month and are expected to undermine protections for campus survivors of sexual violence*** Washington, DC - Today, on the one-year anniversary of the #MeToo movement going viral, Congresswomen Annie Kuster (NH-02), Lois Frankel (FL-21), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and Jackie Speier (CA-14) urged Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos to swiftly arrange meetings and fully engage with survivors of campus sexual violence before formally proposing new regulations governing Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. Secretary DeVos announced the Trump Administration’s decision to revoke Obama Administration guidelines to schools on September 7, 2017. While not yet formally made public, the draft Title IX regulations designed to replace the Obama-era guidance was leaked to the New York Times and was the subject of a report on August 29, 2018. The draft obtained by the Times marks a significant and deeply troubling departure from the previous guidance by, among other things, limiting the definition of sexual harassment as well as the scope of what schools would be required to investigate under Title IX. In part, the letter reads: “We have spoken to countless survivors from our districts and across the country and have had the opportunity to hear firsthand the devastation and isolation survivors can feel after experiencing sexual violence on college campuses and in K-12 schools where they deserve to feel safe. We have also seen how Title IX guidance from the past three both Democratic and Republican Administrations has empowered colleges and universities to improve the resources provided to survivors and internal investigations after reports of sexual violence are made.” Statistics show that one in five women and one in 16 men will experience sexual assault during their college years, yet incidents of sexual violence remain the most underreported crimes on school campuses. “It is very concerning to us that a broad spectrum of survivors and survivor advocacy organizations have yet to be consulted about new regulations that will directly impact survivors’ ability to pursue an education free from sexual violence as guaranteed by federal law,” the Congresswomen continued. “To that end, we again urge the Department of Education to actively seek feedback from survivors and survivor advocacy organizations before issuing any new regulations on Title IX.” Reps. Frankel, Lawrence, and Speier comprise the leadership of the Democratic Women’s Working Group. Reps. Kuster and Speier are two of the co-chairs of the Bipartisan Task Force to End Sexual Violence. Full text of the letter is below. ### October 15, 2018 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20202 Dear Secretary DeVos: As leaders of the Democratic Women’s Working Group of the House of Representatives and the fight against sexual violence in our schools, we call on the Department of Education to swiftly arrange meetings and fully engage with a broad range of survivors and survivor advocacy organizations before releasing new regulations on Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. Title IX provides essential protections to student survivors and we must work to ensure that this critical federal law continues to afford students the opportunity to pursue an education free from the threat of sexual violence. We have spoken to countless survivors from our districts and across the country and have had the opportunity to hear firsthand the devastation and isolation survivors can feel after experiencing sexual violence on college campuses and in K-12 schools where they deserve to feel safe. We have also seen how Title IX guidance from the past three both Democratic and Republican Administrations has empowered colleges and universities to improve the resources provided to survivors and internal investigations after reports of sexual violence are made. However, our work is far from over. Statistics show that we have an epidemic of sexual violence on our college campuses and in K-12 schools. One in five women and one in sixteen men will experience sexual assault during their college years.[1] Further, approximately 17,000 sexual assaults were reported by K-12 students between 2011-2015 alone.[2] Even that staggering number fails to fully capture the breadth of this crisis because such incidents are severely underreported.[3] Additionally, students of color, students in the LGBTQI communities, and students with disabilities experience disproportionately higher incidents of sexual violence in schools. Most survivors of campus sexual assault know their attackers and fewer than ten percent of survivors in college will come forward, making it the most underreported crime on college campuses.[4] In fact, 34 percent of students who experience sexual assault drop out of college completely.[5] Behind each of those statistics are lives forever changed due to sexual violence. We must do everything in our power to stop this epidemic of sexual violence and keep our students safe. According to recent reports, the draft Title IX regulations that the Department of Education will soon release reflect a significant and deeply troubling departure from the interpretations of past Administrations. Additionally, it is very concerning to us that a broad spectrum of survivors and survivor advocacy organizations have yet to be consulted about new regulations that will directly impact survivors’ ability to pursue an education free from sexual violence as guaranteed by federal law. To that end, we again urge the Department of Education to actively seek feedback from survivors and survivor advocacy organizations before issuing any new regulations on Title IX. Thank you for your urgent attention to this matter. We look forward to hearing your response. Sincerely [1] Lisak, David, Lori Gardinier, Sarah C. Nicksa, and Ashley M. Cote. "False Allegations of Sexual Assault: An Analysis of Ten Years of Reported Cases." Violence Against Women 16, no. 12 (2010): 1318-1334. http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/1077801210387747. 2 McDowell, Robin, et.al. "Hidden Horror of School Sex Assaults Revealed by AP." AP NEWS. May 02, 2017. https://apnews.com/1b74feef88df4475b377dcdd6406ebb7. 3 McDowell, Robin, et.al. "Hidden Horror of School Sex Assaults Revealed by AP." AP NEWS. May 02, 2017. https://apnews.com/1b74feef88df4475b377dcdd6406ebb7. 4 United States of America. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. The Sexual Victimization of College Women. By Bonnie S. Fisher, Francis T. Cullen, and Michael G. Turner. https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/182369.pdf. 5 Mengo, Cecilia and Beverly M. Black. “Violence Victimization on a College Campus: Impact on GPA and School Dropout.” Journal of College Student Retention Research, Theory, and Practice 18, no. 2 (2016): 234-248. http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1521025115584750?journalCode=csra& [1] Lisak, David, Lori Gardinier, Sarah C. Nicksa, and Ashley M. Cote. "False Allegations of Sexual Assault: An Analysis of Ten Years of Reported Cases." Violence Against Women 16, no. 12 (2010): 1318-1334. http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/1077801210387747. [2] McDowell, Robin, et.al. "Hidden Horror of School Sex Assaults Revealed by AP." AP NEWS. May 02, 2017. https://apnews.com/1b74feef88df4475b377dcdd6406ebb7. [3] McDowell, Robin, et.al. "Hidden Horror of School Sex Assaults Revealed by AP." AP NEWS. May 02, 2017. https://apnews.com/1b74feef88df4475b377dcdd6406ebb7. [4] United States of America. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. The Sexual Victimization of College Women. By Bonnie S. Fisher, Francis T. Cullen, and Michael G. Turner. https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/182369.pdf. [5] Mengo, Cecilia and Beverly M. Black. “Violence Victimization on a College Campus: Impact on GPA and School Dropout.” Journal of College Student Retention Research, Theory, and Practice 18, no. 2 (2016): 234-248. http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1521025115584750?journalCode=csra&
10.05.2018	Washington, DC – Today, the leadership of the Democratic Women’s Working Group, Congresswomen Lois Frankel (FL-21), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and Jackie Speier (CA-14), released an open letter to women in American in response to the nomination and confirmation process of Judge Brett Kavanaugh. “Women and survivors of sexual harassment and sexual violence have suffered in silence for too long. The United States of America is long overdue for not only a policy shift but a true cultural change when it comes to our response and prevention of sexual abuse. We need women to be heard. We need survivors to come forward with the expectation that they will not be disregarded or disbelieved. Rather, we must demand accountability, justice and a fair and thorough process. The nomination and confirmation process of Judge Kavanaugh has been only another example of why so many survivors are afraid to come forward. I am proud to join the leadership of the DWWG in this open letter to women in America. We will continue to fight for change so that women and survivors can feel free to speak their truth. The culture must change, and this change should start from the top.” -Rep. Brenda Lawrence ###
10.03.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – October 3, 2018 – Today, the leadership of the Democratic Women’s Working Group, Congresswomen Lois Frankel (FL-21), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and Jackie Speier (CA-14), released the following statement in response to President mocking Dr. Christine Blasey Ford at a campaign rally. “Last night, the President of the United States embarrassed our nation by unleashing a vile and vicious attack on Dr. Christine Blasey Ford for bravely telling her story of sexual assault by Judge Kavanaugh. President Trump should be taking all necessary steps to make sure there is an impartial investigation of all pertinent allegations and individuals, as well as the multiple incidents of perjury committed by Judge Kavanaugh while testifying under oath before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Instead, the President – just four days after declaring Dr. Blasey Ford ‘a very credible witness’ – sent a horrible message to survivors of sexual assault and misconduct that they should suffer in silence because if they do speak out they are guaranteed to face disbelief, mockery, and character assassination.” ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), was joined by Representatives Fred Upton, Dan Kildee, Debbie Dingell, Sander Levin, and Bill Huizenga in a letter to Secretary of State Michael Pompeo urging the Administration to consult with Congress and reconsider the decision to significantly decrease the refugee admissions ceiling for 2019. Their letter highlights the benefits that refugee resettlement provides and how the admissions ceiling has been historically balanced with America’s history of welcoming refugees and contemporary humanitarian needs. Background: Since 1980, the United States has admitted more than 3 million refugees for resettlement. The Refugee Act of 1980 granted authority to the President, in consultation with Congress, to determine an annual ceiling for refugee admissions to the United States. Historically, this ceiling has been based on U.S. strategic interests, global humanitarian need, and prior immigration precedent. For Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019 the President and his Administration have failed to consult with Congress in determining the admissions ceiling. ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) and Rep. Quigley (IL-05) introduced the Get the Lead Out of Schools Act which helps ensure our children have access to safe drinking water. The bill requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish a lead contamination testing program for schools and create a grant program to help school districts conduct lead testing and assist with remediation efforts. “When we send our children to school, we expect them to have a healthy and safe learning environment. However, families across our country are facing the threat of drinking water contaminated with dangerous neurotoxins like lead. Growing children are especially vulnerable to the damaging and irreversible health effects caused by lead exposure. As we have seen in cities from Flint to Baltimore and the recent Detroit Public Schools drinking water shutoff, contaminated water is a crisis in our communities. Safe drinking water is a fundamental right and ensuring our children have access to safe drinking water at school must be a priority.” — Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence “Lead in school drinking water poses an invisible yet grave threat to our children’s wellbeing, and it is a threat that demands the immediate attention of every parent, citizen, and level of government,” said Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL). “By finally requiring the EPA to establish a lead contamination testing program for all schools, we can better ensure that our kids’ classrooms are safe, healthy spaces for them to learn and grow.” — Congressman Mike Quigley Background: There is currently no federal law requiring the testing of drinking water in schools. A Government Accountability Office report published in July 2018 found that 57% of U.S. school districts did not test their water or did not know whether they had tested their water for lead. This nationwide problem has affected school districts across the country. On August 28, 2018, the Superintendent of Detroit Public Schools Community District shut off drinking water at all 106 schools in the district after water testing revealed elevated levels of lead. Most communities are in need of resources to investigate their water infrastructure and improved guidance on remediating identified contaminant risks. ###
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), joined by Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA-08) and Rep. Dan Kildee (D-MI-05), sent a letter to the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior Appropriations Conferees to urge robust funding for safe drinking water programs. Originally authorized in the 2016 Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act), these programs would help remove lead and harmful contaminants in drinking water. “Access to safe drinking water is not a privilege, but a fundamental right. The American people deserve to have safe drinking water coming from their taps; but this requires upgrades to our water infrastructure that are long overdue. Strengthening America’s drinking water protections and removing lead and other contaminants out of public water supplies should be one of our highest priorities”, said Rep. Lawrence. These programs passed Congress with overwhelming bipartisan support and many communities that faced funding limitations to remove contaminations are now able to access safe drinking water. In 2016, partisanship was not a barrier in the battle to provide safe drinking water to the American people and it never should be. I strongly urge funding for these safe drinking water programs for the good of the men, women and children in our nation.” -Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence “There is no safe level of lead in water and Congress should act to fully fund these programs. As we have seen in Michigan, including both in Flint and Detroit, it is clear schools across the country need help addressing lead in water risks. I was proud to help create these lead-free initiatives in the Flint aid package previously passed by Congress that would help schools test and eliminate lead in drinking water.” -Congressman Dan Kildee. “Every American community has a right to clean and safe drinking water. The federal government must continue to invest in water purification infrastructure to attain robust drinking water standards nationwide. When it comes to the problem of PFOS/PFOA, lead, or other contaminants in our drinking water, we need enhanced protection, not less. These bipartisan grant programs are essential to the safety of our families and children.”- Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick Joining Reps. Lawrence, Fitzpatrick and Kildee on the letter are Representatives Sinema, Costa, Sires, Jackson-Lee, Castor, Gottheimer, Bergman, Moore and DeGette. Background The three grant programs include the Assistance for Small and Disadvantaged Communities grants in Section 2104, the Reducing Lead in Drinking Water Grants in Section 2105, and the Lead Testing in School and Child Care Program Drinking Water Grants in Section 2107 in Public Law No: 114-322. These programs were initially authorized in the 2016 Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act), which changes how water resources in the United States are managed. ###
09.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence announces a $9.5 million grant award for the city of Detroit through the Fiscal Year 2018 Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program. The Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program is designed to assist in the financing of capital projects to replace, rehabilitate, purchase or lease buses and related equipment, and to rehabilitate, purchase, construct or lease bus-related facilities. Projects through this funding may include costs incidental to the acquisition of buses or to the construction facilities, such as the costs of related workforce development and training activities, and project administration expenses. “For Detroit, a city that was once one of the largest transit communities in the nation, this funding is vital. Like New York, Washington D.C., and Chicago, Detroit has a high percentage of carless households, ranking eighth among the nation. This issue can partially be attributed to the city’s lack of annual transit spending, using only $69 per capita on transit each year, compared to cities like Seattle that spend over $400. The Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program will help aide with this disparity and assist in rebuilding our bus systems and workforce. Now is the time to rebuild.” Background: The Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program grant award is worth $9.5 million. The grant award is for the city of Detroit. The Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program is designed to assist in the financing of capital projects to replace, rehabilitate, purchase or lease buses and related equipment, among other purposes. For more information on the Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program please contact the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT). ###
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and Rep. Joe Kennedy III (MA-4) toured the Community Health and Social Services (CHASS) Center in Detroit, Michigan on Thursday, September 20, 2018. “I was glad to join my colleague, a strong healthcare advocate, Rep. Joe Kennedy (D-MA) in touring the CHASS Center in Detroit, MI. It was encouraging to learn about their hard work and dedication to providing quality healthcare services to the Detroit area. However, it was also troubling to learn about the challenges they continue to face as President Trump and Republicans in Congress continue their push to dismantle the Affordable Care Act (ACA), said Lawrence. Access to quality healthcare should not be a privilege but a fundamental right. Unfortunately, poverty plays a great role as a barrier for some of our most vulnerable populations. As one of the largest urban areas in the United States, the Detroit area faces dire consequences without access to quality healthcare options. When we consider the devastating mortality rate of pregnant women in American and the many who stand to lose access to healthcare because of pre-existing conditions; it is essential that the fight for healthcare access through the ACA, a program that helped to reduce Detroit’s uninsured rate from 22% to less than 8%, is greatly needed. Fighting for the ACA is fighting for the lives of the American people and I am dedicated to continuing that fight.” –Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence “More than just treating a singular patient, CHASS cares for people, neighbors and loved ones. I am deeply grateful to Congresswoman Lawrence, the staff, and the entire CHASS community for welcoming today.” — Congressman Joe Kennedy III “We were honored today to host Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence and Congressman Joe Kennedy at CHASS Center. As champions of community health centers, both Representatives are committed to helping address issues of access to comprehensive health and wellness care for Detroiters. They heard our challenges and raised the level of conversation about how best to bring health to our communities. We appreciate their time, commitment to community health centers, and support of our communities,” Felix M. Valbuena, Jr., M.D., CEO, CHASS Center ###
09.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence announces a funding opportunity for the state of Michigan and its surrounding communities through the U.S. Agency for International Development’s (USAID) Development Innovation Ventures (DIV) program. The DIV program awards between $50,000 to $5,000,000 in flexible, tiered grant funding to test and identify creative solutions to global developmental challenges. These innovative solutions come in many forms –products, technology, services, and the application of creative business models, among other things. “Through the DIV program, USAID helps establish solutions to critical challenges affecting millions of people around the world. For every dollar issued by the DIV program, $4.60 is saved. The provided funds are used to test new ideas, take strategic risks, and advance sound solutions. Since its establishment, the DIV program has impacted over 30 million lives by identifying solutions that demonstrate cost-effectiveness, rigorous evidence of impact, and a viable pathway to scale and sustainability.” “USAID will begin accepting new applications for DIV grant funding in mid-September of 2018. Any type of organization, in any country in which USAID operates, may submit a proposal for funding. Applications are accepted on a year-round basis.” Background: The DIV program awards between $50,000 to $5,000,000 in grant funding. USAID will begin accepting new applications for DIV grant funding in mid-September of 2018. Any type of organization, in any country in which USAID operates, may submit a proposal for funding. Applications are accepted on a year-round basis. For more information on the DIV program and its model please visit https://www.usaid.gov/div/about. For information on how to apply for DIV grant funding please visit https://www.usaid.gov/div/apply. ###
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, leadership of the Democratic Women’s Working Group (DWWG), Reps. Lois Frankel (FL-21), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and Jackie Speier (CA-14), along with 107 additional Members of Congress, sent a letter to all U.S. Senators outlining concerns with the confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh. Given the credible and disturbing allegations of sexual assault by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Members are urging the Senate delays any vote until a thorough investigation of the allegations has taken place. In part, the letter reads, “To hold a vote now would be an insult to women and girls, sending a powerful message that they don’t matter and will not be believed. Let’s instead set an example for our children that sexual violence should be taken seriously and emphatically denounced […] We urge the Senate to rise to the occasion, take these allegations with the seriousness and careful consideration they deserve, and allow a thorough investigation.” Full text of the letter below and here. ### Dear Senators, We urge you to delay Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court until a thorough investigation of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s allegations has taken place. To hold a vote now would be an insult to women and girls, sending a powerful message that they don’t matter and will not be believed. Let’s instead set an example for our children that sexual violence should be taken seriously and emphatically denounced. If the allegations of sexual assault are true, they speak to Brett Kavanaugh’s character and ability to determine right from wrong. Before giving Kavanaugh power to make decisions about women’s lives, their protection under our laws prohibiting sexual violence, and their physical autonomy, Congress has a responsibility to allow the American people to learn the truth. In the age of #MeToo, the vitriol that Anita Hill endured cannot happen again, both in our national discourse and throughout any testimony that Dr. Ford chooses to provide. Over this past year, survivors across the country have come forward with harrowing stories of sexual assault and harassment. Their bravery and experiences cannot be in vain. Dr. Ford did not want to go public with her story, knowing the hostility, retaliation, and disbelief she would face. We applaud her courage for risking it all. Now that Dr. Ford has taken the brave step to come forward, we must do all we can to treat her with decency and respect. We urge the Senate to rise to the occasion, take these allegations with the seriousness and careful consideration they deserve, and allow a thorough investigation. Sincerely, _____________________ _____________________ _____________________ Lois Frankel Brenda L. Lawrence Jackie Speier Chair Vice Chair Policy and Communications Chair Democratic Women’s Working Group Democratic Women’s Working Group Democratic Women’s Working Group
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, issued a statement on the Detroit Public Schools Community District (DPSCD) drinking water shutoff: On August 29th, superintendent Nikolai Vitti chose to shut the drinking water off to the entire Detroit Public Schools Community District after 16 schools tested positive for elevated levels of lead and copper. “This week, DPSCD began the school year without safe, clean drinking water. What should have been an exciting first day of school, was overshadowed by fears of lead poisoning and unsanitary learning environments. “Detroit’s children already face too many uphill challenges to obtain an excellent education, and access to safe drinking water should not be another obstacle any of our children face. We need to address these immediate concerns and do all we can to protect our youth. I urge DPSCD and the city of Detroit to use whatever resources are immediately available to begin fixing our crumbling infrastructure. Now is the time to focus on preventing another crisis. For too long we have not had the proper funding to maintain our facilities and protect our communities. “I will continue pursuing this issue until we have results and truly invest in long-term solutions. As the adults, we are the ones who must make the right decisions. Investing in our infrastructure and our children is the right decision. I look forward to working with the state of Michigan, the city of Detroit and the school systems to help secure federal resources in support of this effort. This is not a partisan issue, but a public health issue that deserves our full attention and immediate action.” ###
08.16.2018	Detroit, MI. – “Today, the Queen of Soul has left this world; but her life and legacy has left us all with something we can truly feel. Aretha Franklin was soul personified and she gave us the gift of her voice, her truth and her unapologetic passion to demand compassion, love and R-E-S-P-E-C-T for women everywhere. An iconic entertainer, powerful civil rights leader and a beautiful spirit who I am privileged to call friend. She will be dearly missed, but never forgotten.” ###
07.31.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence announces three funding opportunities for the State of Michigan relating to infrastructure investments: the (1) Grants for Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program, (2) Public Transportation on Indian Reservations Program, and (3) Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements Program. “As our infrastructure ages and we continue to delay long-overdue investment, consumers and taxpayers bear the greatest burden of our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. These three programs were established to combat this issue and provide aid to rebuild our infrastructure and strengthen our local, state and national economies. For my home state of Michigan, and many others across the country, this is great news. For far too long, we have not invested enough in our transportation and infrastructure needs. I urge all who qualify to take advantage of this time-sensitive opportunity.” Grants for Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program Under the Grants for Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program (Bus program), approximately $366 million in fiscal year 2018 will be competitively awarded to assist in the financing of capital projects to replace, rehabilitate, purchase or lease buses and related equipment, and to rehabilitate, purchase, construct or lease bus-related facilities. Projects may include incidental costs to the acquisition of buses or to the construction of their facilities. Eligible applicants include designated recipients that allocate funds to fixed route bus operators, and to States, and local governmental authorities that operate fixed route bus services. No single grantee will be awarded more than 10 percent of the amounts made available. Proposals must be submitted by August 6, 2018. Public Transportation on Indian Reservations Program Under the Public Transportation on Indian Reservations program (PTIR) approximately $5 million is made available for fiscal year 2018 to support the planning, capital and, in limited circumstances, operating assistances for tribal public transit services. There is a $25,000 cap on planning grant awards, and the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has the discretion to cap capital and operating awards. PTIR applies to federally recognized Indian tribes or Alaska Native villages, groups, or communities located in rural areas with a population of 50,000 or less. Applicants must submit a proposal by September 10, 2018. Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements Program The Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements Program (CRISI) is a comprehensive solution to leverage state, local, and private investments to support enhancements and general improvements to passenger and freight railroads and infrastructure. CRISI awards approximately $318 million in grants for the 2018 fiscal year to states, group of states, and public agencies. The grant program covers a wide range of projects within the United States to improve railroad safety, efficiency, and reliability; mitigate congestion at both intercity passenger and freight rail chokepoints; enhance multi-modal connections; and lead to new or substantially improved Intercity Passenger Rail Transportation corridors, among other purposes. There are no predetermined minimum or maximum dollar thresholds for awards. Furthermore, applicants are not limited in the number of projects for which they seek funding. Applications for funding under CRISI are due no later than September 17, 2018. Background The Bus Program Applications for funding are due no later than 11:59 p.m. EDT, August 6, 2018. For more information on how to apply for grants under the Bus program, please visit https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2018-06-25/pdf/2018-13554.pdf If you have any further questions regarding the Bus program please contact Mark Bathrick, FTA Office of Program Management, at mark.bathrick@dot.gov or 202-366-9955. PTIR Project proposals should be submitted no later than 11:59 p.m. EDT, September 10, 2018. For more information on how to apply for grants under the PTIR program, please visit https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2018-07-11/pdf/2018-14748.pdf If you have any further questions regarding the PTIR program please contact the Tribal Transit Program, Office of Program Management at 202-366-0876. CRISI Applications for funding are due no later than 5:00 p.m. EDT, September 17, 2018. For more information on how to apply for grants under the CRISI program, please visit https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2018/07/19/2018-15412/notice-of-funding-opportunity-for-consolidated-rail-infrastructure-and-safety-improvements If you have any further questions regarding the CRISI program please contact Ms. Frances Bourne, Office of Policy and Planning, Federal Railroad Administration at frances.bourne@dot.gov or 202-493-6366.
07.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, marking the 53rd anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid being signed into law on July 30, 1965, Rep. Lawrence highlighted a new study from House Democrats’ Seniors Task Force co-chairs, Congresswomen Jan Schakowsky and Doris Matsui, detailing years of efforts from House Republicans to attack seniors’ Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. “The anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid should be a joyous event,” said Rep. Lawrence. “But years of Republicans’ cruel and cynical attacks on these vital initiatives have put the futures of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security – and the millions of seniors who rely on them – in peril. After handing away trillions in their GOP tax scam for the rich, Republicans have made crystal clear that they plan more cuts to Medicare and Medicaid, more premium increases for families and more tax giveaways to Big Pharma as they hike Michiganders’ seniors’ prescription drug costs.” The report extensively examines years of specific Republican benefit cut policies that would affect older Americans, found in Republican budget resolutions since the GOP took the House Majority in 2011: Medicare premium support; Medicaid block grants; An increase in eligibility age for Social Security and Medicare; and, Repeal of the Affordable Care Act, which destroys protections for people with pre-existing conditions, imposes an age tax and raises prescription drug costs. These proposed cuts threaten over 1.9 million Medicare beneficiaries, nearly 207,000 Medicaid beneficiaries over age 65, and over 2 million Social Security beneficiaries in Michigan. “Michigan families and seniors deserve so much better than the Republican raw deal on health care and I will continue to oppose any cuts that threaten these vital programs” said Rep. Lawrence. “I am proud to fight with my Democratic colleagues to offer A Better Deal for the people – with a strong, detailed plan to lower the cost of prescription drugs, with tough new enforcement of drug price gouging, allowing Medicare Part D to negotiate lower drug prices and demanding transparency of Big Pharma’s price hikes. Democrats are fighting for the people, while the GOP cravenly puts Big Pharma and big corporations first.” # # # Please note: The last two pages of the report have a state-by-state table on the number of beneficiaries in Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security.
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) sent a letter to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos to request information on the Department’s efforts to close the digital divide and ensure every student has access to affordable broadband internet in school and at home regardless of socio-economic status: “Investing in the next generation is critical towards ensuring a prepared 21st century workforce can contribute to the growing American economy. Cutting-edge technology has immense potential to transform student educational achievement, fill critical needs in the STEM and computer science fields, and open doors for job opportunities. However, to fully take advantage of education technology, we must first prioritize equitable, affordable access to high-speed broadband internet for students in school and at home. “Access to broadband internet has become a necessity and affordability has become the greatest barrier. Students without access fall behind their peers academically and the results of this fundamental inequality further widens disparities especially for minorities and low-income families. “This is why I have sent a letter to Secretary DeVos addressing these concerns and to request answers to the Department’s work on this issue under the Trump Administration. The letter urges DeVos to make this concern a priority and asks her to detail how the Department is tackling this issue. This is about equity for every child and every student regardless of their economic status, race, or zip code. Improving technology access is imperative for equal opportunities and there is an urgent need to take immediate action and close this detrimental digital divide. It is my hope that Secretary DeVos and the Department of Education gives this issue and our students the attention they deserve.” ###
07.20.2018	Washington, D.C.—Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence made the following statement on the US Ecology permit expansion application to increase storage capacity of hazardous waste in Michigan’s 14th district. “In recent years, incidents such as the Flint Water Crisis and increasing concerns of PFAS (per- and polyfluoroalkyl) contamination throughout our communities have posed grave threats to our public and environmental health. Low-income and minority populations are often left out of these important conversations that critically affect their communities. Throughout U.S. Ecology’s permit expansion process, we must ensure that this does not happen. We need to make sure everyone’s voice is heard and continue to explore further options that protect the environment and hold the public’s best interest in mind. For these reasons, I am carefully monitoring U.S. Ecology’s permit expansion process being carried out under the jurisdiction of our state government. I am encouraged by MDEQ’s acknowledgment of the potential harms U.S. Ecology’s expansion could pose, including a delay in the permitting process and the removal of certain low-level radioactive waste from its Detroit facility.” Background: For nearly 40 years, US Ecology, a waste management company, has operated in the 14th Congressional District (6520 Georgia Street, Detroit, Michigan). The waste management company is permitted by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) to discharge pretreated chemical waste in the City of Detroit sewer system. Since its establishment, there have been no known adverse impacts on its surrounding communities. U.S. Ecology is currently renewing its operating license to include an expansion of its storage capacity by nine times its current volume, increasing from 76,118 gallons to 676,939 gallons. For good reason, residents and community groups have raised concerns, citing potential health and environmental hazards. ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, all four Democratic Members of Congress – Representatives Sandy Levin, Dan Kildee, Debbie Dingell, and Brenda Lawrence – issued the following joint statement: “We stand united in our shared goal of protecting national security. Today’s political gamesmanship orchestrated by Congressional Republicans and this Administration’s inhumane policies towards immigrants do not serve our nation well. Trust is vital for all law enforcement to do their jobs effectively and safely. We are all ready, willing, and able to work with all of our colleagues on comprehensive immigration reform and to keep our nation safe.” ###
07.17.2018	Washington, D.C.—Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence released the following statement today after President Trump’s meeting and press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin: “President Trump displayed a disgraceful show of weakness and betrayal as he stood beside the Russian President placing blame on America while also discrediting our American intelligence agencies. This matter is no longer up for debate; there is irrefutable evidence from all our intelligence agencies that Russia interfered with the 2016 election. On an international stage, the President of the United States seems to care more about his relationship with President Putin over the protection of our democracy and America’s relationship with our allies in NATO. Once again, President Trump is showing the American people where his priorities and loyalty lie. Regardless of party or politics, our American democracy and our core values must be defended and protected. If we can’t get support for our democracy from the White House and its administration, we in Congress must come together to seek truth, accountability and justice for the good of this nation.” ###
07.10.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence released the following statement on President Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: “For once, President Trump kept his promise by nominating a judge that would attack the affordable healthcare for the American people and undermine the right of women to choose. Judge Brett Kavanaugh is exactly the Supreme Court nominee that President Trump promised. Kavanaugh’s record speaks for itself; America’s healthcare, a woman’s freedom, civil rights, worker’s rights and voting rights are all at stake if Kavanaugh takes the seat of the highest court in our nation. There is too much at risk and the American people have too much to lose. I strongly urge the Senate to defeat this dangerous nomination.” ###
06.28.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) introduced the Better Pay and Lifetime Earnings for Teenage Girls through Adulthood Act, a bill to address pay inequality for young women. Gender pay inequality emerges at the ages of 14 or 15 and persists through full-time adult employment. The impacts of the pay gap lead to a loss of earnings over a woman’s lifetime weakening economic mobility. These effects are even greater for women of color. “Women in the United States are paid just 80 cents for every dollar paid to a man. A 20-year old woman starting full time work stands to lose $418,800 over a 40-year career compared to her male counterpart. Studies show that the wage gap starts in the teenage years and we need more information to close this gap. Closing the wage gap needs to start from the moment girls enter the workforce. This bill will help us study the origins of this important issue and determine how we can end this ongoing inequality. It is the first step towards addressing pay inequality for young women and especially young women of color.” Background: This bill requires the Secretary of Labor to study the early pay gap in the teenage labor force. The Secretary will examine the early wage gap’s relation to greater gaps in the overall labor force, conduct comparisons between average earnings of males and females in similar jobs, and estimate the overall lifetime losses for women including women of color. Furthermore, the bill requires the Secretary to provide recommendations to address pay inequality for young women and develop standards of best workplace practices to prevent these early inequities. ###
06.26.2018	Rep. Lawrence Statement on Supreme Court Decision on Trump Muslim Ban June 26, 2018 | Press Release Washington, D.C.-Today, Rep. Lawrence released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling in Trump v. Hawaii, upholding President Trump’s Muslim ban: “The American people are not fooled. This third draft of Trump’s travel ban is ultimately a Muslim ban that unjustly discriminates against people because of their religion. Elections have consequences, nominations have consequences and today’s ruling represents a sad day for our democracy. This is a shameful ruling in American history that will not be soon forgotten.” ###
06.25.2018	Washington, D.C.-Rep. Lawrence statement on fatal single-engine plane crash in Detroit, Michigan. “On June 24, 2018, a single-engine plane crash left two adults dead and one 17-year-old boy in critical condition. A Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) spokesperson reported that the pilot communicated with air traffic control citing low fuel and a landing gear problem. This is a tragedy, and we must do all we can to avoid injury and loss of life in our aviation system both large and small. My deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of those lost and I pray for a speedy recovery for the survivor. My office has contacted the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) who, along with the FAA will be conducting a full investigation of this crash. We must do all we can to ensure adequate communication, preventative measures and oversight so that disasters like these are avoided.” For more information on disaster response and assistance, please see government resources below: Eyewitness account or any information to report – please e-mail eyewitnessreport@ntsb.gov Disaster Assistance - https://www.ntsb.gov/tda/Pages/default.aspx Lawrence is a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, where she also serves on the Subcommittee on Aviation. ###
06.22.2018	Washington, D.C.-Rep. Lawrence statement on the Trump administration’s proposal to merge the Labor and Education departments as part of a broader reorganization of the federal government. “The Trump administration’s plan to reorganize the federal government is simply another attack on essential programs that serve our people. This administration is working to reduce the size of government no matter the cost, but these cuts have major consequences. There is a place for collaboration and smart reforms, but not for major consolidations and cuts to basic assistance for millions of Americans. “The proposal to merge the Labor and Education Departments is particularly misguided. While an emphasis on school-to-workforce training and expanding access to apprenticeships is a good plan, this can and should be done in a collaborative manner with two fully functioning government agencies. The Education Department is one of the smallest federal government agencies, with under 4,000 employees, which has shrunk by more than 10% since President Trump took office and Secretary DeVos instituted a departmentwide hiring freeze. One of the smallest agencies that manages one of America’s greatest challenges needs more employees, more funding and support—not less. We need an independent education agency to support K-12 education, student loans, the skilled trades, STEM education for women and minorities, civil rights in our schools, and the education our children deserve. We also need to protect the Labor Department’s critical efforts to enforce minimum-wage laws, ensure workplace safety, and safeguard workplace benefits and rights. “I am also concerned about proposals in this plan to potentially privatize the Postal Service, consolidate health and welfare programs, remove SNAP from the Agriculture Department, and revamp other programs without Congressional input. Any plans that would affect the American people should go through Congress, and I will continue to be vigilant about this Administration’s actions.” Lawrence is a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Executive Branch and ensuring that federal agencies do their job to serve the American people. ###
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) introduced H.R. 6090, the Artificial Intelligence Reporting (AIR) Act of 2018, a bill that would allow for the Subcommittee on Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence (MLAI), established by the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC), Committee on Technology (COT) to submit an annual report to Congress. This report will include: A strategic plan for unclassified machine learning and artificial intelligence research and development, in consultation with the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) program and appropriate subgroups of such programs, including the Robotics and Intelligent Systems Interagency Working Group The use and status of unclassified machine learning and artificial intelligence applications across the Federal Government Efforts taken to enhance the Federal research and development enterprise by embracing a diverse workforce “New and emerging technologies such automation and artificial intelligence are transforming businesses in every industry and sector. However, these technologies will also cause major disruptions in our labor forces,” Congresswoman Lawrence said. “H.R. 6090 will provide us the data to continue to be a global leader in research and development (R&D) and science and technology (S&T). Most importantly, it will provide Congress the data to diversify the federal R&D workforce and prepare America’s workforce for the jobs of tomorrow.” ###
06.15.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence led a letter to the President’s Postal Task Force calling for it to operate in a transparent manner and prioritize bipartisan reforms that support employees, retirees, and the Postal Service’s mission to serve every American. President Trump established the Task Force on April 12 to evaluate the Postal Service’s operations and recommend reforms within 120 days. “Over 60 days have elapsed since the Executive Order was issued,” the letter states, “but the Task Force has not indicated publicly how it is working to engage in meaningful reform efforts. We urge the Task Force to operate in a fully transparent matter, given that the postal system is of utmost importance to the American public.” The letter asks the Task Force to release its final report to Congress and immediately share information about its deliberative processes. It also calls for the Task Force to only recommend reforms that have broad consensus. “As a former employee of the United States Postal Service for over 30 years, I am committed to the integrity and success of our postal system,” said Rep. Lawrence. “I am urging the Task Force to support our existing, bipartisan reforms that would make sure every American has reliable mail service, regardless of income or location.” Rep. Lawrence was joined by other members of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, including Reps. Cummings, Connolly, Norton, Raskin, Maloney, and Lynch. ###
06.14.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence announces a temporary funding expansion for public servants who were previously denied loan forgiveness under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program. Under the Temporary Expanded Public Service Loan Forgiveness (TEPSLF) opportunity, applicants denied PSLF simply for making William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan payments under the wrong repayment plans, may now qualify for loan forgiveness. These funds are distributed on a first-come, first-served basis and will be available until funding runs out. This program applies to previously denied applicants who met all PSLF criteria but participated in the wrong Direct Loan repayment plan. “The PSLF program is a critical bipartisan promise that Congress made to our students who pursue careers in public service. This temporary funding expansion is great news for our country and for the many public servants in states like Michigan. Our nation’s teachers, military personnel, and public servants depend on this program to make their higher education affordable. As we celebrate its tenth anniversary, I am opposed to the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans’ attempts to eliminate this vital program. Since its establishment in 2007, over 600,000 borrowers have signed up for the PSLF program. “I urge all who qualify to take advantage of this time-sensitive opportunity. Public servants are an important foundation of the 14th Congressional District and their impact on our communities would not be possible without the PSLF program.” Background: The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 made available $350 million for Temporary Expanded Public Service Loan Forgiveness (TEPSLF). Note: This is a temporary opportunity. Funding will be distributed on a first-come first-served basis. This opportunity applies to public servants whose applications for Public Service Loan Forgiveness were denied because William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan payments were made under a non-qualifying repayment plan. The studentaid.ed.gov website indicates that to be eligible, applicants must have already: Submitted and been denied PSLF only due to the nature of your payment plan; Had at least 10 years of full-time employment certified by a qualifying employer and approved by FedLoan Servicing; Made 120 qualifying payments under the new requirements for the TEPSLF while working full-time for your qualifying employer(s). For questions about Public Service Loan Forgiveness, please contact Fed Loan Servicing. For instructions on how to apply for TEPSLF, please visit: https://tinyurl.com/yb4dc3ae ###
06.13.2018	Washington, DC -Today, Rep. Lawrence joins Members of Congress in condemning the Trump administration for cruelly separating children from their parents at the border. “Separating families at the border has no place in our nation’s immigration process. It endangers the mental health of children, traumatizes families already fleeing unimaginable hardship, and is contrary to the legal obligations of the United States to those seeking asylum. “Family separation causes deep suffering among the entire family, but children stand to be the most impacted. No child should have to face such harsh realities at a young age. This is inhumane, cruel and completely contrary to our American values. Taxpayer dollars should not be used to facilitate this injustice. “In the absence of capable leadership from the White House, I strongly urge my colleagues in Congress to take a stand and make it clear that the United States will always be a welcoming country for those seeking refuge from violence and other forms of conflict. It is imperative that we reintroduce humanity and compassion back into our immigration system.” ###
06.08.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence was joined by Reps. Levin, Kildee, and Dingell in a letter to Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross expressing serious concerns with the inclusion of a citizenship question on the 2020 Census and discussing its negative effects in Michigan. “This question only exacerbates fear and mistrust, jeopardizing an accurate count and putting all our communities at risk,” the letter states. “We are committed to a fair and accurate count of our constituents, in Michigan and across the United States. We ask that you focus on the goal of conducting a comprehensive, accurate, and cost-effective 2020 Census by removing the citizenship question.” “This question is unnecessary and unacceptable,” Rep Lawrence said. “The risks are too great and this proposal is too arbitrary and ill-advised for us to stand by in silence. The U.S. Constitution requires every person to be counted in the census. Without an accurate census, our communities will be deprived of equal representation and vital resources. We hope Secretary Ross will take these fact-based concerns into consideration and remove this harmful question.” Background: Today, June 8, the Trump Administration is required to file court documents about their decision to add the citizenship question, including information they have refused to provide to Congress. As a Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Congresswoman Lawrence has demanded this information in public hearings. The Department of Commerce announced on March 26, 2018, that it would add this unprecedented question to the 2020 Census form, asking the citizenship status of every person in America. Census experts and community advocates have warned that this question will significantly reduce census response rates, decrease census accuracy after years of careful testing, increase census costs, and jeopardize crucial federal funding. Accurate Census data determines the distribution of over $14 billion in the state of Michigan for Medicare and Medicaid, education, highway planning and construction, foster care, school lunches, and other essential services. ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) statement on passage of the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and inclusion of her amendment which would increase coordination of gender integration implementation plans in the Armed Forces. The amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to share best practices and lessons learned between the branches of the Armed Forces and the public. “Today, I voted on an important bipartisan reauthorization to fund the Department of Defense and programs critical to our national security. This bill allows us to combat global threats and invests in our Armed Services. In order to safeguard our country and protect the American people, we must do all we can to support our military and that includes full support of our servicemen and women. “Millions of women in the United States still face significant barriers and bias when applying for and entering the workforce. Unfortunately, these are also concerns in our Armed Forces. While a gender integration plan is needed and appreciated, the success of its implementation requires transparency, coordination, oversight, and accountability. This is why I am proud of the inclusion of my amendment in this bill to fully support women and families in our Armed Forces through a successful, data-driven implementation plan. Recruitment, retention, and integration is directly connected to the engagement and support of service members. It is essential that decisions and actions that disproportionately affect women and families are recognized and addressed.” Lawrence is a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which is responsible for ensuring that federal agencies do their job to serve the American people. She also serves as Vice Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues and the Democratic Women’s Working Group, where she leads efforts to support working women. Amendment Background: The Secretary of Defense shall direct each component of the Armed Forces to share lessons learned and best practices on the progress of their gender integration implementation plans and to communicate strategically that progress with other components of the Armed Forces as well as the general public, as recommended by the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services. ###
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence signed a bipartisan discharge petition to force a long-overdue vote on the House Floor to protect America’s Dreamers. “In September 2017, President Trump decided to end the DACA program, a reckless action that has received little public support and created an unnecessary crisis. I am proud to take real bipartisan action to get the American people a vote on legislation that would finally ensure protection for America’s Dreamers and the peace of mind to continue pursuing the American Dream.” The American people want Congress to pass a DREAM Act, as do the business, religious, and law enforcement communities: 84 percent of Americans support a path to citizenship for Dreamers or permanent status; 88 percent of Independents back a path to citizenship or permanent status; 70 percent of Republicans back either citizenship or permanent status. This discharge petition would force a House vote on bills to protect Dreamers. The proposal receiving the most votes on the Floor would be adopted, under a “queen-of-the-hill” procedure. ###
05.16.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Lawrence statement following Senate Intelligence Committee’s determination that U.S. intelligence community was correct in assessing Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election with the aim of helping then-candidate Donald Trump, which directly contradicts the findings reached last month by House Republicans. Excerpt from May 16, 2018 joint statement of Senate Intelligence Committee chairman, Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), and vice chair, Sen. Mark R. Warner (D-Va.): We see no reason to dispute the [intelligence community’s] conclusions...Our staff concluded that the...conclusions were accurate and on point. The Russian effort was extensive, sophisticated, and ordered by President Putin himself for the purpose of helping Donald Trump and hurting Hillary Clinton. “While the House Intelligence Committee concluded no Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, the Senate Intelligence Committee’s contradiction with the House and alignment with the conclusions of the intelligence community is very telling. Our election process is the foundation of our democracy and the findings of the Senate Committee and our intelligence community has revealed that our democratic process was indeed compromised. It is imperative that we seek accountability and protections for the sanctity of our voting process. The voice and the vote of the American people must never be compromised.” ###
05.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence announces a funding opportunity for the state of Michigan and its surrounding communities through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development Transportation program (BUILD). The BUILD program awards grants to states and local communities to serve as an investment for developing and maintaining surface transportation infrastructure projects. These grants are to be awarded on a competitive basis, and are specifically for projects that would have a significant local and regional impact. BUILD will replace the pre-existing TIGER grants program. “BUILD funding supports infrastructure projects involving bridges, transit, roads, rails, and ports, among other things. For our country, and state’s like Michigan, this is great news. For far too long, we have allowed our local and national infrastructures to deteriorate and crumble, the BUILD program gives us the opportunity to combat these issues while also improving upon our country’s national security. “The deadline to submit an application for the FY 2018 BUILD discretionary grants program is July 19, 2018. As our crumbling infrastructure continues to threaten our national security, it is important that we take advantage of this funding and use it to build a brighter future for our country and the state of Michigan.” Background: The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 made available $1.5 billion for BUILD Transportation discretionary grants which will be awarded through September 30, 2020. Each project can be awarded up to $25 million for FY 2018. Each state can be awarded up to $150 million for FY 2018. At least 30 percent of these funds must be awarded to projects located in rural areas. Projects for BUILD will be evaluated based on merit criteria that include safety, economic competitiveness, quality of life, environmental protection, state of good repair, innovation, partnership, and additional non-Federal revenue for future transportation infrastructure investments. For information on how to apply for BUILD grants please visit https://www.transportation.gov/BUILDgrants/apply ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Sam Graves, (R-MO-06), Daniel Lipinski, (D-IL-03), Markwayne Mullin, (R-OK-02), and Brenda Lawrence, (D-MI-14), introduced H.R. 5701 an Aviation Workforce Development Pilot Program Bill to encourage more men and women to pursue careers in aviation. This legislation would incentivize businesses, labor organizations, schools, and governmental entities to work together to pursue strategies to develop technical talent and encourage workers to pursue aviation careers. Studies show that in just 4-years we will not have enough aviation maintenance technicians to meet the demand for those services and skills in the aviation industry. “As a pilot and an ATP, I have seen firsthand the importance of having a skilled workforce of aviation technicians and mechanics. All of aviation from general aviation to large commercial operations will be affected if more people do not enter this vital field. This legislation provides a viable path forward to address the skills gap and ensure the United States remains a world leader in the aviation industry,” said Graves. “The professionals of the aircraft maintenance workforce are imperative to keeping our nation’s aviation system the safest and best in the world. It is imperative that we ensure there is an adequate supply of trained and qualified individuals in this field. I’m pleased to have worked with my colleagues, the aviation industry, and labor stakeholders to introduce this bill. This program will help recruit and train the next generation of aircraft mechanics,” said Lipinski. “With more than 2.58 million passengers traveling through U.S. airports every day, it’s crucial that the aviation industry has the skilled workforce they need to get every passenger to their destination safely. The Aviation Maintenance Workforce Development Pilot Program Act will help the aviation industry match the growing demand for its maintenance workers by creating a grant program to support career development for the industry. I’m proud to join my colleagues to introduce this bipartisan, bicameral legislation to ensure the aviation maintenance industry has the skilled workforce it needs to fulfill the increasing demand for air travel,” said Mullin. “This aviation maintenance program not only has the potential to support job opportunities for many Americans, it helps to prepare a 21st century workforce to meet our 21st century aviation needs. America’s economy is dependent on a trained skilled workforce, and the educational opportunities and apprenticeship programs in this bill is exactly what this country needs and deserves. This is why I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing the Aviation Workforce Development Pilot Program Bill to support our economy and workforce development that helps to serve the safety and security of the American people,” said Lawrence. This legislation is supported by the following groups: Aeronautical Repair Station Association, Aerospace Industries Association, Aerospace Maintenance Council, Aircraft Electronics Association, Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, Airlines for America, Aviation Suppliers Association, Aviation Technician Education Council, Cargo Airline Association, General Aviation Manufacturers Association, Helicopter Association International, Modification and Replacement Parts Association, National Air Carrier Association, National Air Transportation Association, National Association of State Aviation Officials, National Business Aviation Association, Professional Aviation Maintenance Association, Regional Air Cargo Carriers Association, and Regional Airline Association. ###
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Lawrence issued the following statement on President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) will not only undermine the national security of the United States, but will damage our credibility as international partners, and embolden the deal’s hardline opponents including the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. “The JCPOA allowed the United States and its international partners to impose unparalleled scrutiny on Iran’s nuclear program and significantly reduce the danger of a nuclear arms race. As we await international responses to the U.S. withdrawal, there is no doubt in my mind that that the current Administration has deliberately chosen to weaken our credibility and diplomacy in a way that will be difficult to repair. As a member of Congress, I will continue to fight for the safety and diplomacy of our great country.” ###
05.01.2018	WASHINGTON— Today, the Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, Reps. Karen Bass (D-CA), Tom Marino (R-PA), Jim Langevin (D-RI), Diane Black (R-TN), and Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), issued the following statement recognizing May as National Foster Care Month. “National Foster Care Month is a month to honor the successes and challenges of the more than 400,000 foster youth across the country and to acknowledge the tireless efforts of those who work to improve outcomes for children in the child welfare system. Making sure that all children have a permanent and loving home is not a Democrat or Republican issue—it should be an American priority. This May, we come together to celebrate the experiences of the youth who are in, or have been in, the child welfare system and raise awareness about their needs.” Each May, the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth introduces a resolution to recognize May as National Foster Care Month. Last year the resolution was cosponsored by more than 130 Members of Congress. In addition to re-introducing this important resolution to call attention and raise awareness about this issue, the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth will be hosting a range of events in May, including a briefing on May 9th with Dr. Phil to examine the opioid crisis’s role in dramatically increasing the number of children placed in foster care. The Caucus will also be hosting the 7th Annual Foster Youth Shadow Day, during which more than 100 current and former foster youth from across the country will be flown to Washington, D.C. to shadow their Members of Congress. No one knows more about the pitfalls of our nation’s child welfare system than those who grew up in it. These young people are coming to D.C. to share their stories both - their challenges with abuse, trafficking, overmedication, or homelessness - and their successes with mentorship, adoption, family reunification, community activism and independent living. The goal is to help Congress understand how to improve the child welfare system. ###
04.25.2018	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 25, 2018)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Committee Member Rep. Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), and Rep. Dan Kildee (D-MI) issued the following statements on this week’s four-year anniversary of the Flint water crisis: Ranking Member Cummings: “This anniversary of the poisoning of Flint’s water is a bitter milestone. On one hand, it is a solemn testament to the resilience and resolve of the good people of Flint, who were unnecessarily subjected to deadly abuse in the service of a flawed Republican governing theory that sacrifices public health at the altar of ‘austerity.’ On the other hand, it is a daily reminder of Governor Snyder’s ongoing lack of accountability—and the Republicans in Congress who shut down our investigation in order to protect him. The people of Flint are still recovering from a disaster they did not cause, and some will live with the impacts for the rest of their lives. For them, every sip of water remains tainted with the distrust of broken promises.” Rep. Brenda Lawrence: “We must do all we can to support the victims in Flint. Congress allocated $170 million in federal aid for Flint families, and I pledge to continue to fight for the needs of the people of Flint. I am calling for a hearing from the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, of which I am a member, for a thorough update on the allocation and outcome of the of the federal aid package. We must ensure that the needs of the people of Flint, with all its complexities are fully recognized and addressed. I am especially concerned with the long-term care needed for the children of Flint who are victims of dangerous lead poisoning. We must keep our commitment to these vulnerable children and to this community. This tragedy should never have happened in Flint, and it should never happen anywhere in America ever again. We must remain vigilant to protect America’s infrastructure and public health. We must hold our government responsible and accountable to their solemn duty of serving the America people. I am calling for a thorough hearing to make certain that we learn the lessons needed to prevent a crisis like this from happening again.” Rep. Dan Kildee: “Four years later, it is important to remember that the Flint water crisis is far from over. While I am proud that Congress passed a $170 million Flint aid package to help remove lead pipes and expand health care for families exposed to high levels of lead, more must be done to ensure that Flint recovers from this man-made crisis. Four years later, Flint families still do not trust the water coming out of their taps because of a complete lack of faith in their state government that created this crisis. What happened in Flint is not an anomaly—rather, Flint is a warning to other communities across the country. We must get serious about improving America’s water infrastructure and making significant investments in communities like Flint so a similar crisis does not happen elsewhere.” In December 2016, then-Chairman Jason Chaffetz unilaterally rushed to shut down the Oversight Committee’s investigation—without any consultation with other Members of the Committee—after Snyder refused to produce documents requested by the Committee on a bipartisan basis. Chaffetz subsequently rejected requests by Democrats to re-open the investigation even as criminal charges were filed by state law enforcement officials against individuals who testified before the Committee. When Rep. Trey Gowdy became Chairman, Democrats sent a letter requesting that he issue a subpoena for the documents being withheld by Snyder or allow Committee Members to debate and vote on a motion to issue the subpoena. He rejected both requests. During a Committee business meeting on November 2, 2017, Democrats moved to issue the subpoena, but Republicans blocked all debate on the motion. The Committee’s probe into Snyder’s knowledge and handling of the crisis as it was unfolding was obstructed by him and his office. For example: Snyder refused to provide requested documents in the crucial time period when the state finally warned the public about the threat of Legionnaire’s disease and appropriated millions of dollars to address the crisis. Snyder refused to provide documents used to prepare for specific meetings with his top staff to discuss the Flint water crisis. Snyder refused to provide briefing documents on key events, including the announcement that General Motors would stop using Flint River water, concerns expressed by local leaders about poor water quality, the discovery of a Legionella outbreak, and the finding of high lead levels in Flint water. Snyder turned over very few emails with his top staff. The Committee learned that Snyder routinely destroyed his emails. His lawyers claimed that he preserved all relevant records pursuant to civil litigation brought against the state, but Snyder refused to provide the Committee with proof of his preservation efforts, and he refused a request for the Committee to interview the state official responsible for preserving certain records.
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) introduced the Women’s Equality Workforce Oversight Act (WE Work Act), which would increase oversight of federal agencies that impact women in the workforce, to ensure they are fulfilling their supportive mission and hold the White House accountable. The bill requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct an annual study evaluating agencies and programs that focus on women in the workforce, in light of evidence that this Administration has undermined and undervalued these programs. “Offices across our government have a mission to help women participate in the workforce, get fair wages and working conditions, and opportunities for advancement. However, the current Administration has shown neglect and disrespect for these offices, including a 20% decrease in staff at the Department of Labor Women’s Bureau, halting collection of equal pay data, and proposing to eliminate the Women in Apprenticeships program. They have also threatened budget cuts that would slash services for working women. The WE Work Act will investigate the Administration’s actions and help us answer important questions about how they are impacting women in the workforce.” “Millions of working women in the United States still face significant barriers to economic security and stability, including low wages, unequal pay, discrimination and harassment, barriers to better jobs and new occupations, and inadequate workplace flexibility. Fairness and equality for women is essential to the success of American families and our nation as a whole. We need more than just words and promises, we need oversight, we need facts, and we need accountability. This is why I’m proud to introduce the WE Work Act to support women in the workforce.” Lawrence is a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which is responsible for ensuring that federal agencies do their job to serve the American people. She also serves as Vice Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Women’s Issues and the Democratic Women’s Working Group, where she leads efforts to support working women. Background: The WE Work Act requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study the agencies that most impact women in the workforce, to determine: •Whether they have changed their policies and efforts on women’s participation in the workforce, fair compensation, paid leave, workplace supports for pregnancy and families, participation in non-traditional and higher-paying jobs, and enforcement of workplace rights. •Whether they have decreased their services to women, including: outreach to community organizations, constituent services, grants and small business loans, apprenticeship programs, actions against discriminatory companies, and public education on key workplace issues. •How any funding cuts and staff reductions have impacted their ability to assist women. The bill also asks GAO to analyze the most significant barriers to women’s participation in the workforce and future opportunities to reduce those barriers. ###
04.13.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Lawrence on Trump’s Executive Order to create a United States Postal Service Task Force to evaluate the operations and finances of the U.S. Postal Service. “As a former employee of the United States Postal Service for over 30 years, I support meaningful postal reform that ensures reliable mail service to all Americans and puts the Postal Service on a more sustainable financial path. “I am an original cosponsor of the Postal Service Reform Act, bipartisan legislation that unanimously passed the Oversight and Government Reform Committee with overwhelming support from Democrats, Republicans, and postal stakeholders. “I urge the President’s Task Force to consider serious, bipartisan reform efforts including this bill. “As the President’s Task Force moves forward, it must consider the comprehensive evaluations and bipartisan proposals already on the table. Any Postal Service reforms must support employees, retirees, and efficient mail service to every person and every address in the United States, regardless of income level or location.” Background: Lawrence is a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Postal Service. Through that committee, she has been active in bipartisan efforts to stabilize the Postal Service and ensure it can thrive well into the future. ###
04.12.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence voted no on a Republican Balanced Budget constitutional amendment designed to force deep cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. “The GOP tax scam mortgaged the future of our seniors and our families in order to give even more money to Wall Street, Pharmaceutical companies, big corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent,” said Rep. Lawrence. “Now after adding trillions in higher deficits, Republicans want to amend our Constitution to force America’s seniors to give up the pillars of their retirement security to pay for the GOP’s giveaways to the wealthiest. I’m not going along with this sham so Republicans can destroy Medicare and Social Security.” Earlier this week, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office found that the giveaways of the GOP tax scam, overwhelmingly going to big corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent, are exploding the deficit by even more than originally projected; now by nearly $2 trillion in higher debt. Now, a new report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities finds that, if revenues are not raised to help reach balance, the GOP Balanced Budget Amendment would require deep cuts in key programs, such as Medicare, Social Security, and Medicaid. The report finds that, if the cuts mandated by this flawed GOP BBA are spread proportionately, tens of millions of seniors, children, working families, and veterans would be impacted: Social Security would be cut by $325 billion in 2025 alone, and by a total of $2.6 trillion through 2028; Medicare would be cut by $200 billion in 2025 alone, and by a total of $1.7 trillion through 2028; Medicaid, CHIP, and ACA subsidies would be cut by $150 billion in 2025 alone, and by a total of $1.2 trillion through 2028; and Veterans' disability compensation and other benefits would be cut by $30 billion in 2025 alone, and by a total of $250 billion through 2028. In preparing this report, the CBPP assumes that the balanced budget requirement would go into effect in 2025. It also assumes that, in order to hit the balanced budget target in 2025, Congress would start cutting programs in 2020. As AARP wrote in urging Members of Congress to oppose the amendment, “A balanced budget amendment would likely harm Social Security and Medicare, subjecting both programs to potentially deep cuts without regard to the impact on the health and financial security of individuals… Individuals who have contributed their entire working lives to earn a predictable benefit during their retirement would find that their retirement income and health care out of pocket costs would vary significantly year-to-year, making planning difficult and peace of mind impossible… AARP opposes the adoption of a balanced budget amendment that puts Social Security and Medicare at risk.” “I’m a strong believer in real fiscal responsibility, not this cynical gimmick that is a pretext for GOP cuts to Medicare, Social Security, and Medicaid,” Rep. Lawrence continued. “We need to keep the promises we made to our seniors and our veterans, create more good-paying jobs, and reduce deficits in a responsible and sustainable manner.” The amendment failed to reach the two-thirds majority threshold required to pass the House. # # #
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Re. Brenda Lawrence issued the following statement on the passage of the Omnibus spending bill: “The Democrats worked long and hard to send a unified statement that the needs of the American people must come before party politics. While the original Trump Budget prioritized big business and corporations, Democrats came together to promote domestic priorities that will benefit hard-working Americans and their families, while removing dangerous poison-pill riders targeting women’s health, worker’s rights, clean air and water. This bill also provides support for low-income housing, a significant increase in infrastructure funding including $ 1 billion increase for TIGER grants and an increase in salaries for federal workers. I am also very pleased about the funding to support studies on the implications of gun violence and efforts to improve background check records. “Democrats were also successful in negotiating drastic reductions to the Trump/GOP Homeland Security plan. While Republicans requested $25 billion for a Wall, Democrats negotiated $1.6 billion for border security; restricting construction of the wall they wanted. Democrats successfully negotiated for no increase to detention beds from the previous fiscal year when the GOP’s original request was for 12,000 new beds. Democrats were also successful in providing no funding for the request of 850 new ICE deportation agents, only a select number of supportive personnel. Also, there is absolutely no defunding of sanctuary cities. However, the Republicans continue with their broken promises in prioritizing a vote to address our broken immigration system, including protection of our Dreamers. “Democrats have relentlessly continued to call the Republicans to honor their pledge and to support providing real protections for Dreamers, and Democrats are frustrated and disappointed with the GOP’s unwillingness to reach an agreement on a solution. Our Dreamers are members of our American fabric and they deserve our full attention and consideration. The fight for Dreamers and a DACA solution is far from over, and I will continue to call for protections and a final resolution for these young people who have contributed so much to our society.” # # #
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues hosted a hearing about sexual harassment in the service sector entitled, “Beyond the Headlines: Combating Service Sector Sexual Harassment in the Age of #MeToo.” Members of Congress heard from survivors of sexual harassment as well as professionals with expertise on the issue, and discussed with participants ways to change the culture in the workplace. The hearing was hosted by Reps. Lois Frankel (D-FL), Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, Susan Brooks (R-IN), Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Vice Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, Mimi Walters (R-CA), Vice Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, Barbara Comstock (R-VA) and Jackie Speier (D-CA). “This bipartisan hearing was shocking and sad, as it put a spotlight on what has been a dark secret in our workplaces, often preventing women from reaching their full economic potential. While #MeToo headlines are dominated by stories of abuse from famous men, sexual harassment runs rampant in all industries, depriving workers of a safe and dignified environment, and interfering with their ability to support their families. The testimony we heard today gave us even more impetus to seek out anti-harassment policies that are working in the public and private workplace and find out what, if any, changes we need in our laws,” said Congresswoman Lois Frankel (D-FL). “The service industry, which includes restaurants, coffee shops, hotels and other hospitality establishments, has the highest rates of sexual harassment charges filed of any industry, accounting for 14.2 percent of sexual harassment claims filed to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission from 2005 to 2015. Regardless of whether the harassment comes from a coworker, manager or customer, no one should have to deal with or tolerate sexual harassment in the workplace. Ensuring our workplaces are free of sexual harassment and discrimination is of the utmost importance and I am proud to join my colleagues today from the bipartisan Congressional Women’s Caucus to shine a light on what more needs to be done to prevent future abuse as well as support and protect the victims of abuse while they are at work,” said Congresswoman Susan W. Brooks (R-ID). “As the Vice Chair of the Bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, I am proud to join my colleagues to host this hearing on the pressing issue of combating sexual harassment in the service sector. The time is up for women to continue to suffer in silence and I am encouraged that with dedication and relentless pursuit, we can change this hurtful and harmful workplace culture. No one should ever have to endure sexual harassment in their place of work, and the Bipartisan Women’s Caucus is here to make the strong statement that harassment, intimidation and unwanted advances cannot and will not be tolerated,” said Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (D-MI). “Sexual Harassment should not be tolerated under any circumstances. The stories we’ve heard over the last several months demonstrate that the status quo is unacceptable and things must change. I thank the women who demonstrated remarkable courage by sharing their stories today. I also thank the industry experts for their insight regarding the steps we can take to sexual harassment. We must continue this dialogue to ensure future generations can thrive in a workplace free of discrimination and harassment,” said Congresswoman Mimi Walters (R-CA). “Sexual harassment occurs in all industries. Today we heard compelling testimony about sexual harassment in the service industry. From flight attendants to waitresses and bartenders, sexual harassment occurs throughout a variety of industries and we need to hear from more voices on how we can turn this around. We are continuing our efforts at creating a culture of zero tolerance for sexual harassment in the workplace and the best practices for ensuring that,” said Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-VA). “Today’s hearing gave voice to millions of women in the service sector who have suffered abuse and harassment for years, all because they need to work to pay their bills, put a roof over their heads, pay for tuition, and support their families. The experiences of many of our witnesses were disturbing, to the point of disgusting, and sounded like something out of a bad movie. Restaurant servers dodging physical assaults because they’re dependent on tips. Flight attendants being called to a passenger’s seat, only to find the passenger exposed under a blanket. Nearly 50% of hotel housekeepers surveyed said they have been flashed by a guest, and nearly 60% of hotel workers said they’ve been sexually harassed. And when they are attacked, the message is clear – shut up if you want to keep your job. Well, we had a clear message to send today as well – the Me Too movement is moving on to the service sector. Because for servers, hospitality workers, flight attendants, and every working woman in America, Time’s Up,” said Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA). ###
03.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence issued this statement on the passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter: “It is with a heavy heart that I join with Congress and many around the country to mourn the passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter. The impact of her 30 years of service as a Member of Congress and her life-long dedication to public service will always be cherished and will never be forgotten. “A trailblazer and history maker; as the first woman to represent Western New York in Congress and the first woman to serve as chair of the House Rules Committee, Congresswoman Slaughter paved the way and inspired us all to believe in our right to have a seat at the table and a voice in the room. The immeasurable influence of the enduring advocacy of Congresswoman Slaughter is greatly appreciated and will truly be missed. My thoughts and prayers go out to the family, friends and loved-ones during this difficult time.” ###
03.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) was inducted into the New Democrat Coalition, a group of forward-thinking Democrats in the House of Representatives who are committed to growing our economy and increasing opportunity for all Americans. The New Democrat Coalition, now 68-strong, are committed to challenging outdated partisan approaches to governing to advance pro-economic growth, pro-innovation, and fiscally responsible policies in Congress. “It is an honor to serve as a Member of the New Democrat Coalition. The American people are in need of leadership that prioritizes people over politics and I am dedicated to promoting opportunities for job creation and economic growth. I look forward to working with my colleagues to find solutions to our nation’s current challenges while planning for future success,” said Rep. Brenda Lawrence “The New Democrat Coalition is proud to induct Rep. Brenda Lawrence and other solutions-oriented Members at a pivotal time in our nation’s history. They will help the Coalition continue to move beyond the partisan divide in Washington to advance innovative, pro-growth policies that will help all Americans and keep our nation secure,” said New Democrat Coalition Chair Jim Himes. ###
03.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence issued this statement after President Trump fired his Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and announced CIA Director Mike Pompeo as his replacement: “As we deal with the Trump Administration’s volatile approach to foreign policy, proposals to slash the State Department’s budget, and numerous vacancies within the Department, this decision could not have come at a worse time. Secretary Tillerson leaves behind a State Department that has been marked by disarray, a lack of stability, and low morale among our U.S. diplomats. Our country expects and deserves a State Department that upholds its stated mission to advance the national interests of the United States and its people. Clearly, this mission to support our country and our people cannot be fulfilled if this kind of instability continues. “For Director Pompeo, he must provide his clear commitment to protecting our democracy by addressing ongoing Russian threats and election meddling. Director Pompeo must also explicitly define his foreign policy priorities, how he plans on elevating the role of the U.S. State Department, and advance U.S. diplomacy on the world stage. Finally, as Director Pompeo prepares to take over this new role, we need to have a clear understanding of how he plans on addressing our most pressing foreign policy crises.” ###
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today continues to demand that Congress take action to address gun violence following the murder on February 14, 2018 of 17 high school students who were victims of a mass shooter using an AR-15 assault rifle in Parkland, Florida. “My heart goes out to the loved-ones of the victims of this vicious attack and to the survivors who have to live with the fear and memory of what happened on that Valentine’s Day. “We are only in the second month of 2018 but are facing the 18th school shooting in America. We are just barely past 2017, the year being called the deadliest year of mass shootings in modern U.S. History. But still, the response from Republican leaders on action against gun violence in America is simply and callously ‘now is not the time.’ said Rep. Lawrence. “The American people need more from Congress than simply their thoughts and prayers. America needs leadership that cares when our children and innocent people are violently murdered in their schools, their churches, movie theaters at concerts and social gatherings. America needs action, and they need it right now. “America cannot afford for mass shootings and massacres with assault weapons to become the new normal. This is not a partisan issue; this is about American lives. We can no longer ignore the call of the America people for action. We can no longer ignore the tears and cries of mothers who sent their child to school and work to support their future, only to hear that they now will need to plan for their funeral. Their lives must not be lost in vain. We in Congress, have a duty to the American people and a duty to do all we can to make sure a tragedy like this never happens again. “Congress has the power to make a difference. However, the question will be, do we have the courage to act? Attempting to place all the blame on mental illness is not only stigmatizing, but it is simply inaccurate. We need commonsense gun safety laws. I support background check legislation that would expand background checks to cover all commercial firearm sales and close loopholes. I have cosponsored legislation that would create a more robust vetting system for purchasing semiautomatic firearms, like the AR-15 used by this recent Florida shooter, as well as a bill to ban “bump stocks” that make semi-automatic rifles more deadly. “We need long-term solutions that make our communities safer and emphasize responsible gun ownership while protecting Americans’ Second Amendment rights. I urge my colleagues in both the House and Senate, and on both sides of the aisle, to take immediate action and not rest until we address this ongoing crisis. All Americans must contribute to this discussion so we can turn thoughts and prayers into action.” ###
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Vice Chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group, today led 37 of her colleagues in a letter urging the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study how the Republican tax plan impacts women-headed households. The letter requests a full and independent review of how the new tax law could hurt working women and their families, given the drastic changes to middle-class taxes, childcare tax credits, and healthcare. “We are concerned this tax plan will disproportionately tax women over time because they represent a large proportion of breadwinners in middle-class and low-income households. Under the new law, taxes are expected to increase for these brackets by 2027,” wrote the Representatives. “Nearly two-thirds of minimum wage workers are women, and nearly six in ten workers in low-wage jobs are women.” In their letter, the Representatives point to evidence that the new law will increase taxes on middle-class and low-income families, in which 70% of mothers are primary breadwinners, while giving trillions in tax cuts to corporations and the wealthy. They also express concerns that the law will decrease the Earned Income Tax Credit’s value, damage the Child Tax Credit for working-class mothers, and endanger healthcare for millions of women by repealing the individual mandate. The letter also asks GAO to examine whether the Administration has taken steps to understand the needs of working women in implementing the law. In Michigan, 64% of mothers are breadwinners for their families. Michigan women earn less than men, at 74 cents on the dollar. Under the tax plan, breadwinners in middle-class and low-income families will see tax increases of at least $110 by 2027, while the wealthiest 1% pay over $6,000 less, according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy. Lawrence was joined in sending the letter by 37 colleagues, including fellow leaders of the Democratic Women’s Working Group and members of the House Committee on Ways and Means. A full list of signatories is available below and full text of the letter is available at [link]. Signatories: Reps. Frankel, Speier, John Lewis, Levin, Pascrell, Holmes Norton, Hank Johnson, Slaughter, Brownley, Hanabusa, Gomez, Blunt Rochester, Frederica Wilson, Gutiérrez, Clarke, Velazquez, Pallone, DelBene, Moore, Perlmutter, Lofgren, Shea-Porter, McEachin, Beyer, Adam Smith, Lee, Adams, Foster, Keating, Wasserman Schultz, Khanna, Beatty, Barragán, Raskin, Schakowsky, Tsongas, Titus. ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement after the House passed the budget caps bill, ending the second Republican shutdown. “The White House, the Senate and the House are Republican-led, and we have now completed the second government shutdown in just one month. This is no way to run a government. “Our nation is facing great needs on many sides and it is the responsibility of Congress to fund the government so the people receive the much needed support that they are due. While this deal is far from perfect, I’m pleased that bipartisanship was reached on a number of critical programs that Michiganders depend on, including funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, Community Health Centers, essential Medicare programs, and foster care services. However, with all the efforts made in the bill, there are still questions left unanswered and our Dreamers simply cannot continue to be left in the cold, unsure of their future and future of their families. “It is disappointing that the Speaker of the House refused to address the needs of the Dreamers, valued members of the American family, for a vote on the floor. With the March 5th deadline swiftly approaching, Democrats have fought hard to protect Dreamers and fix our broken immigration system. I will continue to fight for the Dreamers and to hold the Republican leadership accountable for their pledge to prioritize our Dreamers so that they can have the answers they deserve.” ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement after the loss of former Congressman Joe Knollenberg. “It is with great sorrow that I extended my thoughts and prayers with the Knollenberg family through this trying time. Alzheimer’s is a disease very close to my heart, and I hope you find comfort and strength in the love and support of family and friends. During my time as member of the Southfield School Board, City Council and the beginning of my tenure as Mayor he was always actively engaged in the Southfield community. I appreciated his hard work and dedication and again I wish nothing but the best for his family. ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today applauded the House passage of two measures that will reform the harassment complaint process in Congress: H.R. 4924, the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform Act, and H.Res. 724, the House anti-harassment resolution. “Workers everywhere deserve to have a workplace free from harassment or discrimination of any kind. These are basic rights, and we should uphold them in Congress as we fight to uphold them everywhere else in this country. I applaud the House for supporting this legislation in a bipartisan manner and passing it unanimously. I hope the Senate quickly passes these reforms as well, to ensure that we have due process for harassment claims across Congress. We must continue working together so that workers in every workplace, of every color, and of every income level have access to a fair process and have safe workplaces.” Background: H.R.4944 & H.Res.724 Congressional Accountability Act Reform Measures: Clearer and fairer reporting and dispute resolution process for employees. More protections and representation for employees who file claims. Increased transparency with respect to payment of awards and settlements. Members will be personally accountable when settling claims of sexual harassment. Reforms for the Office of Compliance including more reports on cases & activities. House Resolution implements immediate protections and requires office anti-harassment policies.
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement after the loss of Detroit Police Officer Glenn Doss. “I am truly saddened to hear of the devastating loss of Officer Glenn Doss over the weekend. My thoughts and prayers are with the Doss family and the entire Detroit Police Department. Officer Doss served the residents of Detroit proudly, and his efforts and dedication will never be forgotten. Thank you to the men and women of the Detroit Police Department for their continued efforts to courageously serve and protect our communities. ###
01.22.2018	Congressman Sander Levin (MI-09), Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following statement after voting ‘no’ on a bill that fails to include a long-term budget or the priorities of the American people: “It is unacceptable for Congress to continue funding the government just weeks at a time. Another short-term continuing resolution—the fourth since last October—hurts our military readiness and injects uncertainty into our economy. “Congress should pass a long-term budget that provides certainty to our military and addresses the priorities of the American people. With so many unresolved and pressing issues, including the opioid epidemic, pension crisis, disaster relief, crumbling infrastructure and protecting DREAMers, Republicans and Democrats must sit down together and reach a compromise. We stand ready to work in a bipartisan fashion to address these issues. “While Senator McConnell has now pledged Senate action, we need a commitment from Speaker Ryan in the House to work with Democrats on a long-term budget agreement or legislation to fix our broken immigration system and protect DREAMers. We oppose another short-term funding bill for these reasons.” ###
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement after voting no on the House Amendment to Senate Amendment to H.R. 195 – Continuing Appropriations Act, which would delay funding for the government until February 16, 2018. “The four-week continuing resolution (CR) would be the fourth time Republicans have used this delay tactic since September. We are more than a third of the way through fiscal year 2018, which began on October 1, 2018. For over four months, the GOP has failed their basic duty to fund the government. “This CR delay is only validation of the GOP’s failure to run the government even when they control the House, Senate, and the White House. Their lack of leadership ignores the pressing needs of the American people. “The failure to provide a permanent legislative solution for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) is also indefensible, especially when a fix has overwhelming support from the American public. 122 DACA recipients lose their protections with each passing day that Congress fails to act. “While the CR renews the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years, it does not provide a permanent solution to CHIP that would guarantee long-term stability for women and their families. It also fails to address other essential health priorities, including extending funding for community health centers. “We in Congress were not elected to stall, we were elected to serve, protect and act on behalf of the people of this nation. America is facing real issues right now, and delaying funding for the government hurts America and the American people with every day of inaction. It’s time to act and stop making excuses.” ###
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s racist and ignorant comments on Haiti and African countries: As an American, I am ashamed of the comments made by the President. This nation – along with Michigan’s 14th district – was built by immigrants of all races, nationalities, and religions. These hardworking individuals should be welcomed and celebrated, not insulted with ignorant remarks. The President’s comments do not reflect the values of the American people and deserve the strongest condemnation from all sides. While these comments are racist and shameful, they are unfortunately not surprising. These recent remarks are part of a larger anti-immigrant agenda. It is clear that President Trump would rather do away with the idea of the American dream than provide relief to hard working immigrants who want nothing more than to contribute to this country. The President must take responsibility and apologize for these reprehensible comments and work towards meaningful solutions for DACA and TPS recipients. ###
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), on this Human Trafficking Awareness Day, released the following statement calling for heighted awareness, education and action to combat this abuse that continues to plague our nation: “Human trafficking is a modern form of slavery that exists throughout the United States and continues to deprive people of their human rights and dignity. “This is a problem that persists in our neighborhoods and communities impacting thousands of Americans, a majority of whom are women and girls. “In 2017, a total of 4,460 cases were reported and 13,897 calls were made to the National Human Trafficking Hotline.136 of these human trafficking cases occurred in my home state of Michigan. “Traffickers use a range of options to control their victims, including: physical abuse, rape, drugs, and emotional abuse to name a few. More awareness and education is needed to tackle this problem wherever it exists. We simply cannot accept this as a new norm in our country. Together, we must do all we can to fight for the rights and safety of women, girls and all victims of this atrocious abuse. We must insist on dignity, we must insist on justice, and we must insist on protecting the most basic rights of freedom for all.” ###
01.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s immigration policy demands released on January 5, 2018. “The President has made his intentions very clear. This purely political move goes to show that the Trump Administration is less than serious about helping the Dreamers if they begin with a wish list of anti-immigrant proposals in addition to $18 billion for the border wall. From day one, the Trump Administration has gone to great lengths to attack and vilify the immigrant community, and this latest move to use Dreamers as a political pawn is no different. Not only are these moves offensive, but they run counter to our values as a nation. If the President really did have “great love” for Dreamers, his Administration would have conducted bipartisan negotiations in good faith. We as Democrats understand the challenges brought on by the current Administration to end DACA for hundreds of thousands of people across the United States. Now is the time to act quickly on a legislative solution to permanently protect these young people and allow them to contribute to the only country they have known.” ###
01.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement on the ruling by Judge Mark Goldsmith on Tuesday, January 2, 2018, ordering federal authorities to release Iraqi nationals that were previously held for six months or longer or grant them bond hearings before an immigration judge within 30 days. Our legal tradition rejects warehousing human beings while their legal rights are being determined, without an opportunity to persuade a judge that the norm of monitored freedom should be followed. This principle is familiar to all in the context of the criminal law, where even a heinous criminal — whether a citizen or not — enjoys the right to seek pre-trial release. - Judge Goldsmith. “In America, due process is not a privilege, but an inalienable right for all. It is unacceptable, unjust and un-American for our government to simply lock up these individuals and hold them without proper cause and without full access to our judicial system and process. The Iraqi detainees and their families have suffered months of uncertainty and denial of basic rights. This court ruling is a step in the right direction. We must continue to demand a fair and transparent judicial process and adherence to the right of due process.” –Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) ### Background: Judge Mark Goldsmith, United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, issued a ruling on Tuesday, January 2, 2018, ordering federal authorities to release Iraqi nationals that were previously held for six months or longer or grant them bond hearings before an immigration judge within 30 days. In this case, the Government can file in federal court a brief objecting to a bond hearing for any specific detainee and supply evidence supporting the objection. According to the ruling, if such an objection is filed, the release of the detainee and the conducting of a bond hearing shall be deferred pending further order of the Court. At the bond hearing, the immigration judge shall release the detainee under an order of supervision unless the immigration judge finds, by clear and convincing evidence, that the detainee is either a flight risk or a public safety risk.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, after spending weeks on a tax bill that enriches the wealthiest among us, Republicans passed a short-term government spending bill that does nothing to address the long list of overdue priorities that Michiganders truly need. Congress should pass a responsible bill that provides long-term certainty to families, but instead Republicans forced through an empty, short-term spending bill. “This bill does not include a full extension of the Children’s Health Insurance program, which 100,000 Michigan children and their families rely on for access to basic healthcare. Instead, it gives CHIP a short-term patch and leaves families with uncertainty. The bill also fails to protect 6,000 Dreamers in Michigan and over 600,000 across the country, who have given so much to this country and are now at risk of being deported. Our duty is to care for all families and all constituents, but this bill fails to do so. “The bill also does not provide adequate funding for veterans’ services, Community Health Centers, and other priorities. At the same time, it includes $5 billion for Pentagon spending. Republicans continue their push to increase defense budget caps, without equal funding for housing, healthcare, infrastructure, and more. “Finally, Republicans passed a disaster funding bill that treats our neighbors in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands as second-class citizens, ignoring their funding needs for safe drinking water systems, emergency healthcare, and rebuilding. Our spending bill should reflect the priorities of our country; and Republicans are making their priorities very clear. I refuse to support a funding bill that does not support my constituents, their families and the good of the American people.” ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement after voting against the final version of H.R. 1, the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” “Today is a sad day for America’s middle class and hardworking families. The Republicans, hidden in secrecy, forced a dishonest and irresponsible tax scam upon us that will only benefit the wealthy while saddling future generations with overwhelming debt and shrunken entitlements. “Proper tax reform would increase opportunity, support small businesses, and ensure long-term financial stability for American families – all in a fiscally responsible way. This bill does none of that, and instead acts solely as a handout to billionaire donors, large corporations, and special interests. Furthermore, to make up for a year of inaction and failed governance, Congressional Republicans included numerous provisions in this reckless bill that will surely harm our environment, our healthcare markets, and our schools. “Despite best efforts to mislead and deceive, the American people have not been fooled. They know this scam for what it is and have shown their widespread disapproval. However, the Republicans passed it anyway. My constituents do not deserve this, Michiganders do not deserve this, and America does not deserve this. We deserve better.” ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released the following statement on the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) 3-2 vote to repeal net neutrality consumer protections: “I am outraged that the Federal Communications Commission voted to repeal important net neutrality protections, which were meant to ensure the internet belongs to everyone. This move will hurt everyday internet users and small businesses in Michigan and across our nation. It limits internet freedom and fair competition by allowing a small group of companies to block some websites, slow content for business reasons, even when it hurts our equal right to access the internet.” “The FCC went ahead with this vote despite overwhelming public opposition and did not fully consider millions of public comments. I joined hundreds of my colleagues in asking the FCC to stop this vote. Now, I will continue to fight for an open internet and support efforts to restore net neutrality.” ###
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement after voting no on H.J.Res. 123, the Continuing Appropriations Act that would delay funding for the government two additional weeks through December 22, 2017. “Today, just one day before the current Continuing Resolution is to expire, Republicans have voted to continue their partisan agenda to cut taxes for the most wealthy at the expense of America’s middle class. We are now closer to the threat of a government shutdown because once again, partisan politics have surpassed public priorities. “After 8 months of failed attempts and time running out on funding the government, Republicans continue to push for more time to complete their scam tax bill. Rather than focus on real issues such as securing CHIP funding or addressing budget caps, the Republicans are fixated on giving tax breaks to corporations and the wealthy. The American people should not have to suffer because of Republican’s failure to act, failure to compromise, and failure to keep their promises. ###
12.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement after the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure approved of two bills to combat human trafficking on our nation’s highways: “As the Vice Chair of the Congressional Bipartisan Caucus for Women’s Issues, I am pleased to see both human trafficking bills approved with bipartisan support by the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee today. Human trafficking is an atrocious crime that disproportionally exploits women and especially young girls,” said Congresswoman Lawrence. “Commercial drivers play a central role in the fight against human trafficking, often serving as the first line of defense. By strengthening systems to recognize and report trafficking, and closing loopholes to traffickers who seek to exploit our transportation system for their personal gain, we are making progress towards combatting human trafficking.” “This is an inexcusable crime,” Rep. Lawrence continued. “I represent a major international transportation and shipping hub, including the city of Detroit in Southeast Michigan. Combatting the growing problem of human trafficking is a serious concern of mine. These bills unite the Department of Transportation with the transportation industry in the fight against these crimes. I am proud to support both of these bills today and urge their quick passage in the full House. The two bills approved by the Committee for consideration by the full House include: H.R. 3814 - No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act, sponsored by Rep. John Katko (R-NY) disqualifies individuals from operating a commercial motor vehicle (CMV) for their lifetime if they used a CMV to commit a felony involving human trafficking. H.R. 3813 - Combating Human Trafficking in Commercial Vehicles Act, sponsored by Rep. Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) directs the U.S. Department of Transportation to designate a human trafficking prevention coordinator. The legislation also allows the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to carry out human trafficking outreach and education, which will assist programs already occurring in many states to educate truck drivers and other commercial drivers so they can help with human trafficking prevention. ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) and Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA) today sent a “Dear Colleague” letter to Members of the House of Representatives urging them to adopt mandatory sexual harassment training for their offices, already required for federal agencies. Norton, Lawrence, and Speier have each introduced bills to address the issue of sexual harassment in Congress. In their letter, the Members wrote, “We must lead by example in our own offices by instituting mandatory sexual harassment prevention and response training now. Our staff works incredibly hard each day, and they deserve to have the same protections afforded their counterparts in the private sector as well as those in federal agencies. We should ensure that their workplaces are free from harassment and discrimination by doing whatever is in our power even if not required by law We may not always agree on matters of policy, but we should all come together to ensure our staff are as protected as they would be in the private sector or other branches of government. We therefore urge you to follow our lead and require regular sexual harassment prevention and response training in your offices for yourselves, as leaders of your offices, and for current and new employees.” Below is their full letter. Dear Colleague: We write to urge you to use your own authority to adopt mandatory sexual harassment training for your offices. This training is already required for federal agencies. The Office of Compliance (OOC) offers a 30-minute online training, available now, that would be a good start for all of our offices to view and learn from, particularly considering that many staff may not be aware of what constitutes sexual harassment and misconduct. As you may have seen in recent news reports, Congress is not immune from horrific stories of sexual harassment, abuse, and misconduct. Former and current staffers spoke out on social media during the #MeToo campaign, which originated after the Harvey Weinstein sexual assault and harassment allegations, sharing stunning and embarrassing stories of workplace harassment, including groping, inappropriate emails and text messages, and predatory behavior on the part of both Members and staff. Each of us has introduced bills aimed at protecting legislative branch employees from sexual harassment by requiring proactive measures such as sexual harassment prevention and response training, enhancing anti-retaliation protections for staffers who report harassment, and streamlining the dispute resolution process currently in place at the OOC. However, we can and should take whatever action we can now to prevent sexual harassment in Congress. We must lead by example in our own offices by instituting mandatory sexual harassment prevention and response training now. Our staff works incredibly hard each day, and they deserve to have the same protections afforded their counterparts in the private sector as well as those in federal agencies. We should ensure that their workplaces are free from harassment and discrimination by doing whatever is in our power even if not required by law. We may not always agree on matters of policy, but we should all come together to ensure our staff are as protected as they would be in the private sector or other branches of government. We therefore urge you to follow our lead and require regular sexual harassment prevention and response training in your offices for yourselves, as leaders of your offices, and for current and new employees. Sincerely, Brenda Lawrence Eleanor Holmes Norton Jackie Speier ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today introduced the Congressional Sexual Harassment Training Act, which would require every congressional office to enroll employees in training to prevent sexual harassment. The Office of Compliance (OOC), which enforces workplace protection laws for the legislative branch, already offers sexual harassment training about employees’ rights and recourses, but it is not mandatory. At the present time, executive branch employees must complete anti-harassment training every two years, while only ethics and cybersecurity trainings are mandatory for congressional offices. “As a former human resources manager and certified Equal Employment Opportunity investigator for a federal agency, I care deeply about preventing and responding to sexual harassment in federal workplaces, and I believe it is unconscionable that every congressional office is not required to participate in this simple training solution that is already available,” said Rep. Lawrence. “We must take this small, first step to support our employees’ rights and serve as an example to the nation.” “Sexual harassment is deplorable and unacceptable in any workplace. Recent reports of high-profile and widespread sexual harassment and assault –including the cases of Harvey Weinstein, Bill O’Reilly, Uber, and many others– emphasize that this is a pervasive problem across our country. This must stop. The first step is to use the tools we already have on hand by mandating that every office participate in existing sexual harassment training.” Since 2011, the OOC has recommended that Congress make anti-harassment training mandatory, but it has not yet done so. This bill would ensure that all offices covered by the OOC, including congressional and support offices, enroll their employees in an existing sexual harassment training, which informs them of their rights and avenues for recourse and educates them on unacceptable behavior in the workplace. The bill requires offices to enroll all employees in the training once every two years and enroll new employees within 60 days. Offices could also offer additional trainings, but every office must complete this minimum requirement. This bill will align the congressional offices with the standards of our federal agencies. “We must all work together to protect women and all our employees. This is not a divisive or partisan issue, this is something we can do today. More can be done, and more should be done in tackling this important issue; but this is an important first step. It requires every single member of Congress to stand up and be held accountable for preventing sexual harassment. I call on my colleagues to support this legislation and protections for employees, as I intend to stand strong with those who would do the same.” Background: In a July 2017 Roll Call survey of congressional staff, one in six women said they had personally been the victim of workplace sexual harassment, while four in 10 women said they believe sexual harassment is a problem on Capitol Hill. Only 10% of women are aware of structures in place for reporting harassment in Congress. The Office of Compliance, which enforces legislative branch workplace protections, has Recommended for years, in its annual reports to Congress, that anti-harassment training be mandatory for each office. Mandatory training is a best practice to help prevent incidents and protect employees. Congress has not acted to simply make the existing training mandatory. Previous legislative attempts have tried to fund OOC’s harassment training and require House offices to include harassment training in ethics training. This bill requires all covered legislative offices to participate in the training already offered by the OOC. The OOC provides a 23-minute online sexual harassment training. The bill requires employing offices to ensure that current employees enroll in training every two years, and new employees enroll no more than 60 days after they are hired. ###
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Lawrence, on October 24 introduced legislation to extend the Health Profession Opportunity Grants (HPOG) program which would support education and training to Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) recipients and other low-income individuals for jobs in the health care field that are expected to be in high demand or experience labor shortages: “A pathway to financial self-sufficiency should be a supported goal for all people; and HPOG participants receive just that. I am passionate about supporting America’s workforce and that includes supporting available resources to help them succeed. The HPOG program supports some of our country’s most vulnerable populations through higher education, training and support services so they have the opportunity of advancement and sustainability. “In 2015, 21 states and 32 organizations received funding for a five-year cycle of the HPOG program that supported healthcare professionals around the nation. Unfortunately, this program is set to expire at the end of this year. The introduction of my bill would call for a continuation of this successful program until 2022. “More than just a pathway to self-sufficiency for our workforce, this program helps to fill the void for so many of our community members in need of health care support. The introduction of H.R. 4105 serves as a reminder of the importance of supporting our workforce so they in turn can support themselves, our economy and the American people. Everyone wins.” ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence was joined by Reps. Conyers and Kildee in a letter urging House Republicans to work with Democrats to quickly extend funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Federal funding for CHIP, which provides essential health coverage for low-income children and pregnant women, expired September 30, 2017. Over 82,000 children in Michigan rely on CHIP for access to basic healthcare. “As Members of the Michigan Congressional Delegation, we write to express our disapproval with Republicans’ failure to put forward a bipartisan reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and their repeated attempts to sabotage healthcare for women and children,” states the letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan. “Republicans should reauthorize expiring health programs including CHIP and stop their attempts to move partisan legislation that offsets funding for these programs with cuts to Medicare and other essential healthcare programs. Callous attempts to use important public health programs including CHIP, Medicare, and community health centers as political pawns will only hurt American families.” “Republicans have prioritized repealing the Affordable Care Act and taking away healthcare, rather than extending this crucial program that has historically received bipartisan support,” said Rep. Lawrence. “Republicans need to come to the table and reauthorize this program in a way that truly preserves healthcare for children and families of Michigan and across this nation.” Background: Over 9 million children nationwide rely on CHIP for access to basic healthcare, including checkups, immunizations, and preventative medicine. In Michigan, CHIP and Medicaid help fill gaps in private coverage and have kept the uninsured rate under 5 percent. In Flint, Michigan, CHIP provides insurance to over 15,000 children, pregnant women, and the children born to them who were exposed to contaminated water. CHIP is also a crucial program in Detroit, where 51 percent of children live below the poverty line. ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today issued a statement supporting the Committee’s letter to Gov. Snyder inviting him to correct or supplement his sworn testimony in 2016 related to the Flint drinking water crisis. In light of recent sworn testimony by a Snyder aide about when Gov. Snyder learned of the Legionnaires' disease outbreaks in Flint, Reps. Gowdy and Cummings have invited Snyder to address any potential discrepancies in his testimony by October 25. "In order to resolve this discrepancy in recollection, please supply the committee with any additional relevant information you have concerning the date upon which you first learned of the Legionnaires' disease," the letter said. "If necessary, you may also choose to amend or supplement your testimony." “As a member of this Committee, I was proud to stand with my colleagues from Michigan and demand that Governor Snyder testify before us last year,” said Rep. Lawrence. “I stand with them again today. The people of Flint have had their trust repeatedly violated, and they deserve to know the truth. I strongly support Chairman Gowdy and Ranking Member Cummings’ request for information and I look forward to Governor Snyder’s detailed response.” ###
10.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) has introduced a resolution designating October 9 as World Post Day, a day to recognize postal services and the essential role they play in our daily lives. “As the only Member of Congress with the experience of a full career in the Postal Service; I am passionate about the amazing contributions of all aspects of postal services to this country and the world,” Lawrence said. “Our postal service workers are bound by an oath to faithfully serve the people, perform their duties, protect the mail and support our Constitution. I am pleased to recognize October 9th as World Post Day and celebrate one of the only government agencies that touches each and every American on a daily basis.” “America’s vibrant U.S. mailing industry employs over 7.5 million people and delivers 47 percent of the world’s total mail volume. World Post Day serves as a momentous occasion to recognize these important elements of our national economy and infrastructure.” Lawrence is a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Postal Service. Through that committee, she has been active in bipartisan efforts to stabilize the Postal Service and ensure it can thrive well into the future. Background: The resolution recognizes October 9 as World Post Day in the United States. World Post Day is celebrated internationally on October 9th to acknowledge the contributions of postal services. It highlights the contributions of the United States Postal Service and mailing sector. The date originally commemorated the Universal Postal Union, which the United States helped establish on October 9, 1874 to promote cooperation between postal services worldwide. The United States Postal Service, which is central to the $1.4 billion U.S. mailing industry, provides fundamental services to every city and town in the nation, enabling American businesses, delivering crucial goods to individuals, and helping communities in times of need. The Postal Service also employs 508,908 career employees, 130,881 non-career employees, and over 113,000 U.S. veterans. The bipartisan resolution has 22 original cosponsors. Organizations supporting the resolution include: American Postal Workers Union, National Association of Letter Carriers, National Postal Mail Handlers Union, National Rural Letter Carriers Association, United Postmasters and Managers of America. ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today demanded that Congress take action to address gun violence and announced her support for legislation that would ban dangerous bump stocks like the one used in the deadliest mass shooting in modern American history, where 59 innocent people lost their lives this week in Las Vegas, NV. “Enough is enough,” said Rep. Lawrence. “The American people need more from Congress than simply their moments of silence. America needs action. This is not a partisan issue; this is about American lives. All Members of Congress must listen to the American people and take action to stop this carnage. My heart goes out to the victims and their families in Las Vegas, and to the victims of gun violence who suffer every day in Michigan and across America. Congress is charged with the solemn duty to protect and defend the American people and that is what we must do.” “This is why I am proud to be an original cosponsor of a bill to ban dangerous devices that turn semi-automatic rifles into machine guns. But we cannot stop there. I demand that people across the aisle, gun owners, and advocates on all sides come to the table to ensure this tragedy never happens again and fix the ongoing crisis of rampant gun violence.” Rep. Lawrence joined Rep. David N. Cicilline (D-RI) and other gun violence prevention advocates to introduce the Automatic Gunfire Prevention Act, which would take immediate action to begin addressing gun violence. This bill would ban the manufacture, possession, transfer, sale, or importation of bump stocks, gun accessories that accelerate the firing rate of semi-automatic weapons to make them function like machine guns. A bump stock allows a semi-automatic weapon to fire at a rate of up to 800 rounds per minute, replicating a fully automatic weapon. Fully automatic firearms are highly-regulated, requiring an extensive FBI background check, and many states have prohibited their possession. The sale of bump stocks, however, is not prohibited under current law. Congresswoman Lawrence has also demanded that Congress establish a Select Committee on Gun Violence Prevention, so that all sides can come to the table and pursue long-term gun violence solutions. “A Select Committee would hold politicians and stakeholders accountable for their positions on gun safety,” Rep Lawrence said. “We need long-term solutions that make our communities safer and emphasize responsible gun ownership while protecting Americans’ Second Amendment rights. I urge my colleagues in both the House and Senate, and on both sides of the aisle, to take immediate action and not rest until we address this ongoing crisis. All Americans must contribute to this discussion so we can turn thoughts and prayers into action.” ###
09.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following statement on Michigan State Police Director Col. Kriste Kibbey Etue’s statement on Facebook concerning National Football League (NFL) protests against inequality and racial injustice: “A statement posted on Etue’s Facebook page referenced the recent NFL protests and referred to those players in a manner that was extremely offensive, ill-informed, and grossly unfitting of anyone in our police force, let alone the state Police Director. Etue’s actions were not only inappropriate, but a disturbing indicator of the lack of unbiased judgement that is required from law enforcement leadership. “The very point and purpose behind the NFL players taking a knee is to protest police brutality and to bring awareness to racial injustice. While most of our police force truly serve, protect and respect their communities; racial disparities in the criminal justice system which disproportionately affect African Americans is a very real issue in this country and in the state of Michigan. Etue’s actions demonstrated that she is unaware or unmoved by the sense of outrage, vulnerability and fear among minorities toward the criminal justice system. “Etue’s expressions through the open space of her social media page calls into question her judgment and ability to fairly and justly perform her duties as the Director of Police when much of her words and actions in her professional capacity are far less public. This is very concerning. “The people of Michigan deserve law enforcement officers who embody the motto “to serve and protect.” They deserve law enforcement leadership who can help to improve police-community relations, not further divide. “While Director Col. Kriste Kibbey Etue did apologize for posting to her Facebook page, her apology was not an admission of wrongdoing nor for spreading these judgmental and ill-willed comments. This behavior is far from what we should ever expect or tolerate from Michigan’s Police Director whose standard should be of the highest moral character. There are times when change is inevitable; and there are times when change is imperative. It’s time for a change.” ###
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Rep. Lawrence statement on the recent investment award granted to Lawrence Technological University (LTU): The Economic Development Administration (EDA) has accepted the bid submitted by Lawrence Technological University for construction to begin on the LTU Business and Technology Accelerator. The EDA has agreed to invest $1.2 million of the $2.5 million project. “I am excited to see Lawrence Tech receive this grant to help further the education and learning environment of its students. It is anticipated that this award will help to save 20 jobs at the University and create 33 new jobs as well. Efforts to spark growth in businesses and jobs in manufacturing is greatly needed and appreciated in the 14th district and in the state of Michigan. This is great news for the future of LTU and its remarkable students and I look forward to the upcoming success from this supportive award.” ### Description: This EDA investment supports the Lawrence Technical University and its strategic partners with construction of the Lawrence Tech Business and Technology Accelerator. The Accelerator will integrate the University’s technical resources into the regions manufacturing base to support the growth of second stage businesses in southeast Michigan. The investment will promote job growth and business expansion in manufacturing, including advanced and sustainable manufacturing, and manufacturing supply chains which will diversify the region’s economy. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant process and investment process can be found at www.eda.gov.
09.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Subcommittee on Immigration Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), and Representatives Sander Levin (MI-09), Dan Kildee (MI-5), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following joint statement after President Donald Trump announced new travel restrictions: “Donald Trump’s proclamation is the latest version of his earlier discriminatory measures—a Muslim ban 3.0. President Trump’s ban is the same discriminatory policy that will make America less safe. The White House is not fooling anyone by adding North Korea and Venezuela. Travel to the United States from North Korea is already restricted, and the bar on Venezuela reaches only select government officials and their families. This blanket ban is wide-reaching and still includes six Muslim-majority countries. Because this version of the ban extends indefinitely, it’s the most dangerous one yet.” ###
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Lawrence, on September 12 introduced legislation to establish protections against sexual harassment in rental housing, which would make it easier for victims to bring sexual harassment cases to court: “Sexual harassment is not just a workplace issue. Sexual harassment in housing has been grossly underreported, leaving victims across the country to suffer in silence because of a lack of protections. Currently, existing protections are limited to federal public housing under previous civil rights laws. However, I am proud to introduce legislation that would establish protections across the housing market, including all rental properties. “Sexual harassment disproportionately impacts low-income, minority victims who may not have the resources to relocate or find alternate housing. It is unacceptable for these vulnerable tenants to have to choose between unwanted sexual advances and homelessness. Abusive landlords with unrestricted access and threats of retaliation or eviction can create a hostile environment with long-term physical and mental consequences for victims. “The Combat Sexual Harassment in Housing Act makes it easier for victims to seek justice. It is my hope that more victims will feel free to come forward so that these bad actors are held accountable. One’s home should be a peaceful refuge, not a place of fear or intimidation. The introduction of H.R. 3745 is an important step in sending a strong message that harassment, intimidation and unwanted advances cannot and will not be tolerated.” Background: Building on existing protections in the Fair Housing Act, the Combating Sexual Harassment in Housing Act would make it easier for victims, the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to bring cases of sexual harassment to court. Specifically, this legislation would amend the Fair Housing Act to make egregious types of harassment against a tenant automatic violation of the statute, including unwelcome touching of a sexual nature or groping, or other actions of a sexual nature intended to be coercive, threatening or intimidating. ###
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Lawrence announced that she will serve in a leadership role in the House Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Forces, a unified effort from the House Democratic Caucus to craft a real legislative agenda that will benefit hardworking Americans and middle-class families. The Congresswoman will serve as co-chair for the Jobs with Dignity Task Force: “The workforce of this great nation deserves a safe working environment, fair wages, employment benefits and a sense of security for the future. I am proud to serve as co-chair of the House Democrats’ Jobs for America Task Force and I am excited about pushing for real legislative solutions to support not only jobs, but jobs with dignity.” –Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) By restoring the traditional employment benefits enjoyed by previous generations, the Jobs With Dignity task force will develop ideas to raise wages and increase profit-sharing, stand up for workers’ rights and benefits, and provide genuine financial and retirement security to all Americans. The Jobs with Dignity Task Force is one of five Democratic Caucus Jobs For America Task Forces aimed at identifying opportunities and solutions for American workers in five key areas: Rebuilding America, Jobs With Dignity, Access to Jobs, New Economy, and Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes. In the coming months, co-chairs of each task force will meet with business and labor leaders, issue experts, and American workers to develop policy goals and solutions that will benefit all Americans. The effort was launched by the House Democratic Caucus. “Workers deserve access to safe and secure jobs that give them the ability to climb the ladders of opportunity and build a nest egg for their golden years. Unfortunately, we’ve seen these opportunities dwindle, and that must change,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “Democrats are committed to bringing these jobs back, and I’m grateful to Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence for her leadership in this important task force. We need to do all we can to put Americans back to work in good-paying, reliable jobs that will allow them the future they deserve.” For more information on the House Democratic Caucus’ Jobs for America Task Forces, please visit: www.dems.gov/jobsforamerica ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) sent a letter to the White House in response to the conflicting messages on the Administration’s positon and plans for DACA recipients and timeline of rescinding the program: “On Wednesday, September 6, the President via Twitter and through Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the DACA program would be rescinded within 6 months. The very next day, President Trump posts a vague tweet declaring that [f]or all those (DACA) that are concerned about your status during the 6 month period, you have nothing to worry about-No action! “DACA recipients have a lot to worry about with this administration’s mixed messages. On Sunday September 10, I hosted a press conference in my district where the stories of hope and fear of our DACA recipients and members of our immigrant community were voiced. It is cruel to play games with the lives of people who have contributed so much to our communities and our country. The stress, anxiety and uncertainty caused by the words and actions of Trump’s administration is no less than mental abuse of this immigrant community. These members of our community deserve better, and we must demand better of our nation’s leaders. “This is why I have sent a letter to the White House calling for clarification of this Administration’s position and plan of action with DACA and the DREAMers. If the President directed Attorney General Jeff Sessions to announce the end of DACA and the very next day tweets that these recipients “have nothing to worry about,” then these recipients and America need a clear official statement. Tweets are an insufficient response to an issue that could affect over 800,000 people in America. The President’s tweet does not simply “speak for itself”—the President needs to speak for himself and that’s why I call on this administration to make their position and plan on DACA crystal clear.” ###
09.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), released the following statement on President Trump’s plan to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program which protected immigrants who arrived in the United States as children from deportation: “I am deeply concerned with the Trump Administration’s decision to move forward with their misguided plans to end the DACA program. I stand with those who arrived to the United States as children and have gone on to become educators, business owners, and those who serve in our U.S. military. “Unless we act now to preserve the DACA program, our economy would stand to lose $460 billion from the national GDP. In Michigan, DACA has allowed more than 6,400 young people to come forward, pass background checks, and live and work legally in the country. Ending DACA in Michigan would cost Michigan more than 418 million in annual GDP losses. “Immigration has always been fundamental to our U.S. story. I stand behind our young DREAMers, and we will continue to fight for the comprehensive immigration reform our nation so urgently needs.” ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) announces that Michigan’s 14th district will receive federal funding awards totaling $1,611,832 in Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) to support federal criminal justice programs: “I am very pleased that Michigan’s 14th district is the recipient of multiple JAG awards to help support our justice system through training, allocation of equipment and supplies and supportive personnel for the betterment of our communities. I am proud to announce the following awards”: Oak Park $11,898 Patrol Vehicle Laptop Computer Purchase Program Pontiac $97,955 Request for Over-time Funds to Deter Criminal Activities in the City of Pontiac Southfield $22,100 Less Than Lethal Equipment Purchase Project Oakland County $80,862 Sheriff’s Office – Investigative and Forensic Services Investigations – Property/Evidence Room Security Enhancements Wayne County $1,399,017 2016 JAG Grand – Local Units Sharing in Law Enforcement Activities ###
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Lawrence introduced H.R. 3418, “The Fostering Academic Information and Resources (FAIR) Act” to give former foster youth a fair chance at pursuing a college degree. According to the Annie E. Casey Foundation, 84% of college aged foster youth report wanting to go to college, but only 20% actually attend. This bill ensures that each child is informed of all federal programs available that cover higher education expenses for foster youth: “Former foster youth qualify for various higher education assistance programs like Chafee Education and Training Vouchers or Pell Grants that help pay for college,” said Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence, Co-Chair of Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth. “Unfortunately, children in care are not always informed of these valuable tuition or housing assistance programs. Especially for former foster youth, the steep costs of tuition, housing, or even the price of books become insurmountable barriers to higher education.” “Knowing about available resources can make all the difference, especially for foster youth. It’s imperative we do all that we can to make sure foster youth are always fully informed of tuition or housing assistance programs,” said Congresswoman Karen Bass, founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth. “The Fostering Academic Information and Resources Act does just that, which is why I’m proud to support it and urge my colleagues to do so as well.” “My summer intern Jameshia, a former foster youth and participant in the Foster Youth Internship Program®, had the opportunity to attend her dream school, but the costs of attending led to her departure after her first year. By chance, she spotted a brochure on a coffee table outlining federal assistance programs enabling her to re-enroll in college, earn her Bachelor’s degree, and recently complete her Master’s in Social Work. With this simple fix, the FAIR Act helps former foster youth, like Jameshia, take full advantage of every program to help ease the soaring costs of a college degree.” –Congresswoman Lawrence ### Background: The Foster Youth Internship Program®, is a prestigious Capitol Hill internship program for alumni of foster care hosted by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute each summer.
07.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) introduced bipartisan House Resolution 457 which honors the 169th anniversary of the United States women’s rights movement initiated by the 1848 Women’s Rights Convention held in Seneca Falls, New York: “On July 19, 1848, the first convention focused on women’s rights was held in Seneca Falls where a momentous movement was born. And now, on July 19, 2017—that movement continues. As the Vice Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, the Co-chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group and as a woman in America, I know all too well that the struggle for gender equality continues. “H.Res. 457 addresses the historic struggle and success spawned by the Seneca Falls Women’s Rights Convention and calls for recognition and celebration of the women’s rights movement. Though we may now have the right to vote, women in America continue to fight to truly have a voice. The 1848 Convention started a movement that dared to defy the normalcy of inequality and broke down barriers that once stifled so many for so long. However, we must remember that we still have a long way to go in the fight for women’s rights. “We must never forget the civil and human rights activists who fought for women’s rights in America and we must continue to push forward. I am proud to introduce this Resolution and know that we are one step closer to equality, a voice and a seat at the table for all women in our nation.” Background: H.Res. 457 highlights the gender disparities present in 1848 and continued disparities that are still present in our society today. This Resolution also calls on educators, government officials, and businesses to celebrate the legacy of the women’s rights movement and the struggle that began so long ago. This bipartisan Resolution has 37 original co-sponsors. ###
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following statement in response to Detroit federal judge Mark Goldsmith’s decision to issue a temporary nationwide stay to halt deportation of all Iraqi nationals with final orders for removal: “Following recent Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids in Michigan arresting over 100 Iraqi nationals, I am encouraged by the recent court ruling which puts a temporary freeze on this deportation order nationwide. I, along with many immigrant advocates including the ACLU have voiced concerns of deportation of those who may be forced to return to a life threatening environment. The court’s decision allows for more time for individuals to seek legal help to challenge deportation orders to Iraq where they could face persecution, torture, and even death.” ###
06.16.2017	Washington, D.C.- On June 15, 2017, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence sent a letter to the Department of Homeland Security Secretary, John Kelly, in response to the Immigration and Custom Enforcement raids that detained a number of Iraqi nationals, including Chaldeans and Muslims: “The recent ICE operations have incited fear and sent shockwaves among the immigrant community in Detroit and throughout the state of Michigan. “I have sent this letter in order to receive clarity on the rationale and methods used for targeting individuals with final orders especially if some of these orders appear to be decades old and do not reflect the current conditions in the countries of origin. “These raids have a significant impact on our communities and the potential for great harm to those who may be forced to return to life-threatening environments. Many of the individuals detained are those whom the United States Government in 2016 acknowledged were targets of genocide. “The increase in the enforcement of removal orders during this administration has concerned the community and brought into question whether these actions protect public safety and the human rights of the people in this District, including immigrants and foreign nationals. I hope to receive a quick and thorough response from DHS Secretary Kelly.”
06.14.2017	Washington, D.C.-Today, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence released the following statement after shots were fired striking individuals during a baseball practice: “Early this morning, Congressman Steve Scalise, Congressional staff and Capitol Police were victims of a horrific attack when a gunman opened fire during their baseball practice. Members of Congress received a bipartisan briefing on the incident. “We cannot thank the bravery of the Capitol Police enough for their quick and heroic response to prevent any further tragedy. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this heinous crime and I wish them a full and speedy recovery. “We must remember to condemn acts of hate and violence and do all we can to work towards unity in America. We are stronger together—we are greater together.” # # #
06.13.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) statement on recent ICE raids where over 100 individuals were apprehended and placed in detention: “I am very alarmed by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids that resulted in the detention and possible removal of Iraqi nationals including Chaldeans and Muslims from the Detroit community on Sunday, June 11, 2017. After personally speaking with ICE leadership from the Detroit area, I am concerned about what seems to be a lack of official policy on targeted individuals with final orders for removal. “These raids have a significant impact on our communities and the potential for great harm to those who may be forced to return to life-threatening environments. Further information for clarity and community expectations were requested and we hope to receive a quick, clear and concise response from ICE.” ###
05.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI) led a bipartisan group, including Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Jason Chaffetz, Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings, and Representatives Mark Meadows, Gerald E. Connolly, Dennis A. Ross, and Stephen F. Lynch sending a letter to President Trump asking for the appointment of Governors to the United States Postal Service Board of Governors. “Governors to the United States Postal Service BOG make critical decisions regarding the postal service that have a direct impact on millions of Americans. With nine vacancies; this crucial body of decision makers need a full functioning body to adequately serve the America people. “Following the departure of the last Senate-confirmed Governor, the Postal Service is operating under the authority of the Temporary Emergency Committee (TEC). Unfortunately, the TEC is unable to fulfill several of the crucial management responsibilities that are reserved to a quorum of Governors. With the end of the fiscal year quickly approaching, it is imperative that the Board of Governors be filled as soon as possible to prevent an unprecedented legal dilemma for the Postal Service. That is why I, along with the original co-sponsors of the Postal Service Reform Act of 2017, urge President Trump to appoint Governors to the United States Postal Service Board of Governors as soon as possible.” ### Background: There are 9 presidentially appointed seats on the USPS Board of Governors (BOG) – all nine are currently vacant. The Postmaster General and the Deputy Postmaster General also serve on the Board, but are appointed by the Board, not the President. So we essentially have two sitting members on an 11-member board. Six members are required to achieve a quorum. No more than five of the nine presidentially appointed members of the board may be from the same political party, with the President’s party in the majority. That means President Trump can nominate five Republicans and four Democrats.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — “Today, House Republicans finally passed their rushed plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. This plan is inconsiderate, irresponsible and ultimately immoral. “There has been no bipartisan input, no thorough review of the bill and no CBO score to gauge the impact of this healthcare plan. On an issue as important to our economy, and vital to the wellbeing of ordinary Michiganders and Americans, this can be called nothing but an outrage. “The ACA is not perfect, but it has provided insurance to millions of Americans, and saved thousands of lives. The bill pushed the uninsured rate to a record low rate of 8.6%, something we should celebrate. From the original scoring of this bill, we know that the Republican plan will drastically increase the uninsured rate in this country, and take away insurance from at least 24 million Americans. The Republican’s plan punishes those who have a gap in insurance coverage by imposing a 30% increase in premiums. “The Affordable Care Act allows states, like Michigan, to expand Medicaid coverage to millions of people. Republicans have decided to stop Medicaid expansion after 2020 and limit the funds that states could receive. Under this new plan, states like Michigan will have less options to support people who rely on Medicaid as their only source of health insurance. “For seven years, Republicans have had the chance to improve the bill and help people, but have failed and refused. They have turned their backs on seniors and those with pre-existing conditions. “This new Republican healthcare plan is indefensible. The health and welfare of millions of Americans are at stake. Under this plan, pre-existing conditions will not be protected, and essential benefits like C-Sections and mammograms will not be guaranteed. I cannot, and will not, support a replacement plan that makes America sick again. It takes away insurance from millions of Americans rather than giving them access to comprehensive health insurance.” ###
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI) joined by Rep. John Conyers (MI) and Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Rep. Cedric Richmond sent a letter to the Trump administration calling for support for the Flint Water Crisis: “On this three-year anniversary of the Flint Water Crisis, we are sending a letter to President Trump calling for stronger efforts to address the ongoing crisis. “Failed leadership from President Trump will cause the residents of Flint to suffer even more—the President’s proposed budget would have disastrous impacts on the funding necessary to address their infrastructure needs. The Flint Water Crisis is far from over and requires our continued support. A crisis like this should never happen in America, and we cannot abandon the people of Flint now when they need strong leadership the most.” ###
04.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence was joined by Ranking Member Elijah Cummings, the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, in sending a letter to Chairman Jason Chaffetz, calling for an immediate hearing on the forcible removal of a passenger on April 9, 2017. “On April 9, 2017, four seated passengers aboard the overbooked United Express Flight 3411 were asked to get off the flight to accommodate crewmembers. Three of the four passengers left, while one passenger, a doctor who stated he had patients to care for, refused and was dragged off the flight by security. “As a member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (OGR), I am passionate about investigating and preventing the misuse of power, authority and resources that could negatively affect the safety of the American public. This is why I have sent a letter to OGR Chairman Chaffetz requesting a hearing to further investigate the incidents that led to the forcible removal of a passenger which left him with a concussion, broken nose and loss of two teeth. “When Americans purchase a plane ticket, they have a right to expect that they will not be dragged off an airplane and left bruised and bloodied if they decline a request to give up their seat,” said Rep. Cummings. “I am proud to join Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence’s request that the Oversight Committee hold a hearing to enable us to get to the bottom of what happened on United, and to understand how the airline industry treats passengers whom they have selected to be involuntarily bumped from flights.” “This incident drew public outrage and there are still many questions left unanswered. I have called for a hearing to include testimony of representatives from the Chicago Department of Aviation, United Airlines, and the Department of Transportation before our committee. We must work to safeguard consumer protections for airline customers and prevent unnecessary force from being used in the future.” ###
04.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) reintroduced H.R. 1909, the Environmental Health Workforce Act of 2017, which would prioritize education and training for existing and new environmental health professionals: “Every American deserves the right to safe drinking water, clean air to breathe, and a healthy community to raise their children. The water crisis in Flint, Michigan and the continued efforts to address this tragedy highlight the critical role of our environmental health workforce and the great work that still lies ahead. H.R. 1909 addresses the need for improvement by providing professionals across the nation with the proper education and training to safeguard and promote healthcare quality and accessibility.” Congresswoman Lawrence was joined by the bill’s original co-sponsors, Ranking Democrat of the House Judiciary Committee Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), and Reps. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Steven Cohen, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Robert Brady and Dwight Evans. H.R. 1909 was endorsed by the National Environmental Health Association (NEHA) and the National Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO). “All Americans have the right to safe food, water, and communities,” said David T. Dyjack, Dr.PH, CIH, Executive Director & CEO, National Environmental Health Association. “Environmental health professionals are educated and trained to a consistent set of standards and guidelines assuring that right. Representative Lawrence’s leadership, through this landmark legislation, should give every community peace of mind in knowing that their family’s health and safety are assured by qualified, accountable, and efficient professionals. We praise the Congresswoman’s efforts to shine a light on this issue of strategic national importance, as Zika, Flint, and food safety dominate the news.” “As we celebrate National Public Health week, I am proud to reintroduce this legislation and know that we are one step closer to securing the health and safety of Americans across the nation. This legislation, will provide a roadmap to rebuilding the local public health workforce, restore our faith in government, and renew our commitment to our children’s quality of life,” said Rep. Lawrence. Background: H.R. 1909 directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), in conjunction with relevant stakeholders, to develop model standards, guidelines, and technical assistance for credentialing environmental health workers as well as developing a comprehensive workforce plan that identifies and addresses ways to strengthen the environmental health workforce. Finally, H.R. 1909 would direct the Comptroller General of the United States to examine and identify best practices in six states related to training and credentialing requirements for environmental health workers. ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Lawrence today marked Equal Pay Day and cosponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation that would strengthen the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and guarantee that women can challenge pay discrimination and hold employers accountable. Lawrence joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) in cosponsoring the legislation in the House of Representatives. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the companion legislation in the Senate: “Pay discrimination of any kind is unfair, unjust, and unacceptable—it simply cannot continue. Equal pay for equal work is a basic request and should not be up for debate. Women and their families have lost too much and suffered too long. Women in America deserve better. Economic inequality hurts not only women, but our communities and our country as a whole—and this is why we need better policies to ensure equality and fairness for all. I strongly support the Paycheck Fairness Act which calls for greater transparency and accountability to help defeat discriminatory practices. It’s time to end the gender wage gap.” “Equal Pay Day falls 94 days into 2017, which is 94 days too late for millions of American women and their families. Every year, I hope we never have to recognize this day, and though we have made some progress in closing the wage gap, it still exists for far too many,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “Women and men in the same job should have the same pay, and the Paycheck Fairness Act is a strong step forward in ensuring that we close the wage gap once and for all. This legislation addresses the issue in a comprehensive and sensible manner, and it is long overdue. President Trump campaigned on the promise that he would fight for American workers, including women, and I strongly encourage him to support this bill and make equal pay a reality.” “I’m proud to sponsor the Paycheck Fairness Act with Congresswoman DeLauro to make sure every woman working to support her family or herself is being paid the same as her male coworkers for the same work,” said Senator Murray. “At a time when many families are struggling to make ends meet, we should be working together to make sure women are not being left behind. This shouldn’t be a partisan issue, and I’m proud to join my colleagues to keep up the fight to ensure that all the hardworking women across this country are getting paid what they’ve earned.” Background: Equal Pay Day symbolizes the date when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Despite making up half the workforce, more than five decades after the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, American women still make only 80 cents, on average, for every dollar earned by a man. The gap is even wider for women of color, with African American women making 63 cents on the dollar, and Hispanic women making only 54 cents, on average, compared with white men. The Paycheck Fairness Act would strengthen and close loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices, ending the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination, and strengthening the available remedies for wronged employees. ###
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), issued a statement on President Trump’s executive order rolling back rules aimed at curbing climate change: “President Trump’s executive order directs the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to revoke the Clean Power Plan – a common sense plan that cuts carbon pollution and other harmful toxins emanating from power plants. Unfortunately, President Trump’s executive order also eliminates fracking safety standards, a moratorium on new coal leases on public lands and repeals methane pollution standards. This is an irresponsible move by the Trump administration that severely impacts the public health of our nation and impedes our ability to lead the world in the fight against global warming. President Trump’s executive order will impact the health of generations of Americans. We can and we must do better for the sake of our children and grand-children.” ###
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) joined by Rep. John Conyers sent a letter to Secretary Ben Carson following his recent visit to Detroit. The letter expresses concerns regarding President Trump’s proposed Fiscal Year 2018 budget cuts to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD): “Today, I sent a letter to Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson to ask for a careful reexamination of the damaging effects that cutting vital HUD programs will have on Detroit and similar cities all across the country. “The elimination of funding for programs such as the Community Development Block Grant program, Choice Neighborhood grants and reductions for programs that provide affordable housing would be a devastating blow to some of our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. The city of Detroit has been a true testament to the benefits of programs like these which now face potential elimination. Through HUD grants, Detroit has received billions of dollars in assistance that has reenergized the city, invested in its future, and helped provide housing for many low-income families who were otherwise facing homelessness. “I hope that Secretary Carson remembers his visit to Detroit and the positive impact HUD’s programs have left on the city. I hope that the gravity of Trump’s proposed budget cuts resonates with the sense of duty our HUD Secretary has to the people. I respectfully call for a reconsideration of the President’s budget cuts and look forward to a conversation about improvements moving forward.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released a statement regarding a letter sent to President Trump about supporting the programs authorized by the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in the Fiscal Year 2018 budget: “Domestic and sexual violence is still a prevalent problem in today’s society. As an elected official in Congress, Vice-Chair of the Congressional Women’s Caucus and as a woman, I am passionate about promoting the importance of the need to continued support of the VAWA program. Since 1994, VAWA has been able to change our nation’s focus in combatting crimes against humanity by improving our criminal justice system and giving the support and resources to victims of these violent acts. In a time when our government needs unity, supporting the reauthorization of VAWA is a bipartisan effort to ending sexual and domestic violence through their cost effective and successful programs. “When I was elected as Vice Chair of Congressional Women’s Caucus, I said, “I am committed to collaborating in creating legislation that supports the needed and necessary goals of this Caucus.” Prioritizing the VAWA in the budget for the 2018 fiscal year is a collective way to ensure stalking, dating violence, and assaults are reduced and prevented. Women, men, children, and adults are all vulnerable to this horrific violence if the VAWA is not reauthorized to provide the resources and services that help protect so many in our country. “The VAWA has been supported by both Republicans and Democrats sending a message for years that ending domestic and sexual violence is not a partisan issue. When both sides of the aisle join forces, action can be taken to bring about solutions to disturbing crimes such as these. I look forward to seeing the President join the leaders that came before him and combat this issue by supporting the VAWA in the budget for the 2018 fiscal year.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released a statement regarding support of the passage of the Postal Service Reform Act through the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: “As the only Member of Congress with first-hand experience in the Postal Service—a wide-ranging career spanning over 30 years, I am passionate about the importance of the Postal Service to this country and the support that it requires. I joined the Oversight and Government Reform Committee knowing that the Postal Services falls under its jurisdiction. After several hearings and meetings, I am glad our committee demonstrated a strong commitment to the Postal Service. This bipartisan consensus is a powerful example of how the American people benefit greatly when we work together for a common good. “As one of the only government agencies that touches each and every American on a daily basis, today is a day to celebrate the passage of the Postal Service Reform Act through our committee. I believe that this legislation will help stabilize the Postal Service and allow it to thrive well into the future.” ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement announcing introduction of a resolution to protect the freedom of the press: “Today, I introduced legislation to reaffirm the freedom of the press. One of the hallmarks of a strong democracy is the presence of a free press. In the face of repeated attacks and threats against the press by the President and his administration, it is imperative that we reaffirm our commitment to the first amendment and the freedom that we cherish. “President Trump’s claims of “fake news” and the press is the “enemy of the people” are just a few examples of his unacceptable attacks against the press. Recently, Press Secretary Sean Spicer refused to include major outlets like CNN, BBC, the New York Times and LA Times in a small-group briefing, while making room for outlets such as Breitbart and One America News Network. Calling the media the “enemy of the people” or the “opposition party” is not only unhinged – it’s dangerous. The American people need a strong, independent press that investigates and holds its leaders accountable. Rep. Conyers stated, “Freedom of the press is a fundamental American value protected by the First Amendment. Our Nation’s founders well understood that a free and robust press is a critical protector of our most treasured liberties. The news media are essentially the fourth estate keeping the three branches of our Nation’s government accountable. Unfortunately, President Trump and his Administration have sought to demonize the news media by stating it is the “enemy of the American people.” We must oppose such harmful efforts and do everything in our power to ensure the freedom of press as well as all First Amendment rights.” –Congressman John Conyers Jefferson has stated that he’d “rather have a newspaper without a government than a government without a newspaper,” and America is coming to appreciate the wisdom of his point more and more every day. “Attacks on the free press are attacks on democracy itself because there is no meaningful democracy without the information that the free press provides the people.” --Congressman Jamie Raskin “As a member of Congress, I am determined to do my job and everything I can to hold this administration accountable and protect the people of this nation. I have joined many of my colleagues in calling for a full and independent investigation into Russia’s ties to the Presidential election and Trump’s numerous conflicts of interest. In order to provide a check on the executive branch’s power, a strong and independent press is crucial to all Americans.” ###
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement regarding the new Republican plan to replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “Last night, House Republicans finally unveiled their secret plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. Instead of providing Democrats, and even members of their own party, time to review the legislation, Republican leadership has begun the process of ramming this severely flawed legislation through the U.S. House of Representatives. “One of the greatest objectives of the Affordable Care Act was to insure as many Americans as possible, which led to over 20 million individuals receiving comprehensive insurance coverage. The ACA pushed the uninsured rate to a record low of 8.6%. The Republican’s plan punishes those who have a gap in insurance coverage by imposing a 30% increase in premiums which can greatly contribute to more Americans being uninsured. “Another pillar of the Affordable Care Act was allowing states, like Michigan, to expand Medicaid coverage to millions of people. Instead of supporting healthcare coverage for more people, Republicans have decided to stop Medicaid expansion after 2020 and limit the funds that states could receive. Under this new plan, states like Michigan will have less options to support people who rely on Medicaid as their only source of health insurance. “Republicans are using the repeal and replace legislation to once again target women’s health by defunding Planned Parenthood. No matter how many times it is explained, Republicans do not seem to understand that federal money does not pay for abortions. Planned Parenthood provides a variety of preventative care, including contraception and cancer screenings to millions of Americans. Instead of allowing Planned Parenthood to continue their important mission of providing women across the country with quality healthcare and coverage, Republicans have decided to jeopardize the health of millions of Americans because of a blatantly partisan witch hunt. “This new Republican healthcare plan is dangerous. The health and welfare of millions of Americans are at stake. After nearly 7 years of complaining about the Affordable Care Act, Republicans have introduced a plan that would cover less people and kick millions off their current plan. I cannot, and will not, support a replacement plan that makes America sick again and prevents millions of Americans from gaining access to comprehensive health insurance.” ###
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement in speaking out against the anti-Semitic acts not only in her district, but across the country: “I am deeply concerned by the recent attacks and threats made against the Jewish community. This year, there have been over 100 bomb threats made against Jewish centers and schools across the country, including a threat made against the Jewish Community Center of Metro Detroit, located in my district, forcing an evacuation. In the last two weeks, three Jewish cemeteries have been vandalized, further revealing the alarming prevalence of anti-Semitic attacks in our country. I urge the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to investigate these hate crimes and prosecute those responsible to the fullest extent of the law. “I joined 157 of my colleagues in sending a letter to the DHS and the DOJ regarding the dramatic increase in bomb threats against Jewish Community Centers and what steps are being taken to bring the perpetrators to justice. The threat against the Jewish population across the country is horrifying and unacceptable. Jewish Community Centers serve as a unifying symbol for local communities as a place to gather and engage in meaningful discussion and celebration. The hateful rhetoric and actions against those in America because of their race, religion, nationality or beliefs has to stop. We need peace—we need justice and we need it now.” ###
03.06.2017	Washington, DC -Today, President Trump issued a revised version of his original executive order drastically altering our refugee and visa system. In response, Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Dan Kildee (MI-5), Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following joint statement: “Some of the details of the executive order may have been repackaged, but the intent and effect remain the same. President Trump has again ordered a Muslim ban that is inconsistent with our values and our Constitution. If the order is allowed to take effect, it will have disastrous consequences for American foreign policy, national security, and immigrant and American families. “While express reference to religious minorities has been removed in this rewritten version, the order is clearly intended to target Muslims. Some tweaks to the text cannot undo President Trump’s well publicized campaign promises to ban Muslims nor his damaging rhetoric, nor can it erase the fact that all six countries identified are majority Muslim countries. “As we saw with the Administration’s first attempt to institute a ban, this policy will cause confusion, separate families, and prevent businesses, universities, and hospitals from bringing in essential personnel. It also slams the door on the world’s most vulnerable people, shutting down the U.S. refugee program even though the program requires more extensive vetting than any other U.S. immigration channel. “Equally important, the revised order makes us less safe. As with the prior order, the revised order diminishes our standing with allies and will likely serve as a recruiting tool for terrorist groups. Indeed, two recently leaked DHS intelligence reports conclude that citizenship is a poor threat indicator and that few people from targeted countries have been involved in terrorism-related activities in the United States. “This order is another short sighted and dangerous policy based on the inflammatory rhetoric that this Administration has made its cornerstone. We continue to stand united in our opposition to these efforts to divide us, and pledge to work together to reject intolerance, discrimination, and hate however and wherever we can – whether in our communities, in Congress, or in the Courts.” ### For Immediate Release: March 6, 2017 Contact: Nicole Julius (Lawrence) 202.225.5802 Shadawn Reddick-Smith (Conyers) 202.225.6906 Mitchell Rivard (Kildee) 202.225.3611 Hannah Smith (Dingell) 202.315.8446
02.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement regarding the upcoming Presidential Address to Congress and the Nation: “Tomorrow, February 28, I will be attending President Trump’s first address to the joint session of Congress. The speech presents another chance for the President to address the concerns of our country and bring the nation together as he promised. In his first month in office, this administration has taken almost daily actions that have stirred up feelings of fear, division and mistrust across the country. There is a great deal to be concerned about and so much to address. “My guest for the evening will be a constituent; Fatima Salman, Executive Director of Muslim Students Association (MSA) National. Fatima also serves on the board of the Michigan Muslim Community Council, and is a proud native of Michigan. She released the following statement: "I am so honored to be invited by my Congresswoman, a woman who fights for the rights of her constituency. This invitation comes at a time where myself and so many others feel threatened that our constitutional rights are, or will be, taken away from us. I made the decision to attend this event because I want my children and our youth to know that we are an integral part of the fabric of America, and especially here in Michigan. My father was an engineer at Chrysler and mother a Montessori teacher. They, and so many other American Muslims in our great state, have contributed to the betterment of our country. It is an honor to be able to represent them and their work." –Fatima Salman “Muslim-American’s and people of Arab decent have contributed a great deal to our communities and have routinely been attacked and discriminated against in the months since President Trump’s election. As the Representative of Michigan’s diverse 14th district, I’ve repeatedly stood up against the divisive rhetoric, and reckless actions on immigrants, refugees and minorities. I was proud to stand with hundreds of Michiganders at the Detroit International Airport following the sudden release of the Muslim ban from the Trump administration, and am inspired by not just their passion, but by their compassion for those unjustly disenfranchised groups. This spirit of the people I’m privileged to represent in Congress is a corner stone of our American values and a vibrant democracy. “We all will be listening very closely to Trump’s words during this address. We can only hope to hear words of hope, unity and progress from the 45th President during his address. We have come too far as a country and we simply cannot go back to the failed fallacies of racism, classism and hatred that divides and weakens us as a nation. American is better than that, and we need to act like it.” ###
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Lawrence introduced H.R. 1069, “The Timely Mental Health for Foster Youth Act”, with five original cosponsors. This bill would require mental health screenings for all children entering foster care. The legislation calls for an initial mental health assessment to take place within 30 days of a child entering foster care with a comprehensive follow-up assessment if deemed necessary: “Researchers have identified mental health as ‘the greatest unmet health need for children and teens in foster care.’ Foster youth are five times more likely to suffer from trauma and PTSD, but may not have access to the proper care or support network needed. “Children entering foster care undergo required physical health assessments, but there are no assurances that each child receives a mental health screening. While some states already conduct an initial mental health assessment, their timeframes can vary from days to months, if at all. This bill mandates that our foster care system recognizes the importance of mental health for at-risk youth. “The Timely Mental Health for Foster Youth Act” is a bipartisan, bicameral measure guaranteeing that foster youth are given the resources necessary to succeed from the moment they enter care. I am deeply committed to ensuring that every child receives mental health services and support. ###
02.10.2017	Washington, D.C. –Yesterday, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously ruled to uphold the block of the President’s Executive Order banning immigrants from seven Muslim-majority countries and all refugees. This ruling once again blocked the Trump Administration and kept our nation’s doors open. In their decision, the three judges made it clear—the President’s Administration completely overstepped their constitutional authority: “The United States is a nation founded on checks and balances. When the President abuses power, it is the job of our courts and our judicial system to rein him or her in. That is what President Trump did by issuing a Muslim ban in the early days of his Administration. Yesterday was a victory for the inclusion and diversity that makes us great. However, we will need to keep a close eye and ear to what comes from this Administration moving forward. We must be ready to fight against division and injustice in all its forms. “The damaging effects of this Administration has had a nation-wide impact including the 14th district of Michigan. We’ve heard their cries and concerns, and it is clear that the Executive Order violates the values of America. I support a strong vetting system that keeps us safe, but oppose this attack on justice and equality. I’m proud to have co-sponsored the SOLVE Act, legislation that would void President Trump’s reckless Executive Order and prohibit the use of funds for implementing and administering the ban. President Trump should immediately withdraw this ban, and instead work with Congress to protect our nation without closing our doors to those in need. “In the 14th district and nation-wide, we know how valuable it is to have people of all backgrounds included and brought into the American fabric. Immigrants and refugees, wherever they come from, make us stronger as a country. America is great because we are inclusive, bridging divides and shining the light of liberty for all to see.” ###
02.06.2017	Southfield, MI – Today, Congresswoman Lawrence met with civil leaders representing Michigan’s 14th district to address the impact of Trump’s travel ban affecting immigrants and refugees: “Today represented an overwhelming opposition in our community of various sectors that are against the injustice and inhumanity of President Trump’s executive order banning travel of immigrants from seven Muslim majority countries and indefinitely banning refugees from Syria. “The attendees in the room included representatives in the legal field, Muslim, Jewish and Christian religious leaders, civil rights leaders, directors of non-profit organizations helping with immigrants and many others. All joined together today to speak about the harm the Muslim ban has already made and the potential dangers this ban could cause if fully put into effect. “People fleeing from danger and persecution are at risk. Families can be torn apart. While Muslims in America make up about 2% of our country’s population, they represent nearly 20% of America’s medical professionals. Our immigrant students and medical residents are at risk and so is our future in American. Immigrants provide a great benefit to our country and these truths are undeniable. This ban has resurrected old battles and fears that we should not have to fight anymore. Too much progress has been made, too much is at stake and we have too much to lose. “What was made clear by all is that the Constitution must be upheld and the community needs to be protected against forces that would deny their basic civil and human rights. This is a time for us to come together and support each other, support our laws and standards and support our American values of liberty and justice for all.” ###
01.27.2017	Washington, DC –Today, President Trump issued an executive order on immigration which, among other things stops visas and entrance of noncitizens from Muslim-majority countries and temporarily bans refugees from entering the United States: “The United States of America is a country of immigrants. Our diversity is one of our country’s greatest strengths. We have a tradition of being a safe haven for those fleeing countries that do not have the same liberties and freedoms that we enjoy in the U.S.A. Mr. Trump’s executive order to halt visas from Muslim-majority countries and ban entrance of refugees does not represent the land of the free and home of the brave. We are hearing concerns all across the country, including Michigan’s 14th district. One of the largest and oldest U.S.-founded Arab American humanitarian relief and development organization in the United States spoke out to our office: "We are experiencing the largest forced migration crisis in recorded history. The United States should welcome more refugees now, not less. Providing protection to people seeking safety is one of our nation’s proudest and longest standing traditions, including resettling Jewish refugees during World War II, Vietnamese refugees in the 1980s, and more recently refugees from the Sudan, Burma / Myanmar, Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria.” Dr. Hany Saqr, CEO, Life for Relief & Development. “We must prioritize the safety and security of our nation, and I support a strong vetting system. We need to continue to ensure that refugees who enter our country will be contributing members of society. However, I do not, and we cannot support stereotyping and discrimination based on religion. The current process for entrance of refugees and asylum seekers is not a wide open door. The vetting process is extensive and we cannot allow fear or falsehoods to get in the way of facts. Terrorists are extremists, and not a religion. America is great because we are inclusive and not exclusive. We must come together and oppose these kinds of acts to divide, wherever they come from.” Background: President Trump issued an executive order on immigration which, among other things: (i) halts for 30 days all visas and admissions of noncitizens from a series of exclusively Muslim-majority countries (Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, and Yemen); (ii) enacts a 120 day ban on all refugees from entering the United States and shuts down the Syrian refugee program indefinitely; (iii) reduces the ceiling for worldwide refugee admissions from 110,000 to 50,000; (iv) levels additional screening measures, including a potential “Values Test” that could be used to target entire groups, against immigrants seeking entry into the United States; and (v) imposes an across-the-board in-person interview requirement on all immigration benefit applications. ###
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement on her appointment to the U.S. House Subcommittees on Aviation and Highway and Transit: “I am excited to be appointed to serve on the Subcommittees on Highways and Transit and Aviation on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to increase our investment in our nation’s infrastructure. Investing in our transportation and infrastructure network today will lead to job creation and economic growth in the future. “The American Society of Civil Engineer’s 2013 report card gave our nation’s infrastructure an average grade of D+. That is unacceptable—we can and must do better. Our nation’s crumbling transportation and infrastructure network directly impacts our prosperity and competitiveness. “In air and on land, our transportation efforts and infrastructure are critical to our economy. I am glad to be at the table with the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit to work to improve the facilities of our highways and transit operations. The improvement of commerce and travel of the American people rests in a modernized transit system and I will do everything I can to support the priorities of America. “Aviation is an important and vital transportation system, with more than 87,000 flights taking place each day affecting millions of Americans. I am excited to be a part of this subcommittee, and to support improving all of our airports bringing them into the 21st century. “With Michigan being home to more than a hundred local, regional and international airports, working to promote accountability, collaboration and improvement will be primary goals. America’s airports should be the envy of the world, and our citizens deserve nothing less.” ### Background: The Subcommittee on Aviation has jurisdiction over all aspects of civil aviation, including safety, infrastructure, labor, commerce, and international issues. Most of the FAA is under supervision of the Aviation Subcommittee. The Subcommittee on Highways and Transit has responsibility for the development of national surface transportation policy, including policies related to the construction and improvement of highway and transit facilities, of safety and research programs, and regulation of commercial motor vehicle operations. Within this scope of responsibilities, the Subcommittee has jurisdiction over many U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) programs and modal administrations.
01.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), issued the following statement on the decision to attend the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump and attending the Women’s March the following day: “I was elected to serve the needs of my constituents and the America people, and that is what my attendance at the inauguration represents. I respect the decision of my colleagues who have chosen to not attend and I do not question their passion or dedication to their constituents and their country. We are facing some serious challenges with the incoming administration and for me; this is about standing up and fighting against those challenges. I will stand strong to support efforts to unite our country and will fight against efforts to divide. “The President-elect ran a campaign filled with divisive and hateful rhetoric that has no place in our democracy. His suggestion that Mexicans are “rapists and murderers” was appalling. His language of disrespect and degradation of women and their rights were detesting. I was infuriated when he called for applause to thank African Americans for “not voting” in the Presidential election because it worked in his favor. He has even attacked an honored and highly respected Member of Congress, Rep. John Lewis. It is disturbing that an elected official, let alone a President-elect who would be so oblivious, offensive and off-base to suggest this Civil Rights icon is “all talk and no action.” These are only a few examples of the detestable rhetoric we have heard from this President-elect which only compels me even more to show up, stand up, and speak out. “I am a Member of Congress, elected by the people just like Trump was, and I will not give up my seat at the table because of his continued hate-filled speech. If at any time, the President-elect tries to fulfill his campaign rhetoric of division and hate, I will be in his face to fight it every step of the way. I intend to represent the face of women, minorities, the working class and the rights and freedoms that should be freely enjoyed by all Americans. I will not stay home, I will not be silent. “I look forward to joining the thousands of supporters at the Women’s March the day after the inauguration; to support not only gender equality, but equality for all underrepresented and disenfranchised groups in this country. We are still the United States of America and our leaders must work to support our Constitution and our American principles of equality, liberty and justice for all.” ###
01.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Interior along with Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter calling on an immediate re-opening of the Flint Water Crisis Investigation: “We owe it to all of the people of Flint to make good on our promises to investigate how this disaster occurred, hold all responsible parties accountable and oversee the Flint recovery process which continues to be beset with delays. “Nearly three years after this crisis began; the families of Flint are still unable to drink clean water from their taps. To add insult to injury, the investigation was suddenly and prematurely closed last month with much unfinished business left on the table. The people of Flint deserve better. They deserve answers—they deserve justice. “We request that Committee Members be allowed to debate and vote on a motion to subpoena Michigan Governor Rick Snyder to produce key documents that he has been withholding from the Committee for the past year, including evidence relating to his admitted destruction of key records.” Background: The letter is a call to action by Members of Congress to continue the investigation on the Flint Water Crisis. There are requests to subpoena Governor Snyder, as well as calls to prosecute emergency managers Darnell Earley, Gerald Ambrose, and Edward Kurtz. The letter is a request to open an investigation to obtain key documents and calling for hearings from officials. Read the full letter here. ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement on her appointment to the U.S. House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: “The backbone of this country’s economy is our transportation and infrastructure. I am excited to be a part of this Committee to support the strengthening of our infrastructure and improve our competitiveness as a nation. This country needs our continued support as we fight for opportunities for economic growth and job creation. “As the Representative of Michigan’s 14th District I have created and promoted legislation to support our economy through America’s skilled workforce and I know just how important it is to have an effective, well-maintained local infrastructure as well. Michigan is the home of the Great Lakes, a major hub for the shipping industry in our country and a gateway to the Midwest. Representing a region that includes 20 percent of the world’s fresh water and one of the most significant groupings of automotive assets in the world is an amazing opportunity to promote and improve on the rich potential we have as not only a region, but as a country to boost our economy. “I will continue to fight for progressive solutions to modernize our country’s infrastructure that work for all Americans. We cannot afford to have another Flint water tragedy, and we cannot forget the victims who have suffered under poor infrastructure plans and implementations. The people should be our priority in this country, and I plan to continue to fight for our growth and progress as a nation.” ### Background: The U.S. House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure is one of the largest committees in Congress, with broad jurisdiction over all modes of transportation – including aviation, maritime and waterborne transportation, highways, bridges, mass transit, and railroads – in addition to other aspects of our national infrastructure.
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement in support of H.Res. 11- Objecting to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 as an obstacle to Israeli-Palestinian peace: “I have always been a staunch supporter of Israel—one of America’s most valued allies. I support targeted measures to promote a two-state solution. It is because of my desire to see this happen, that I support the long-standing policy of the United States in effectuating a peaceful resolution through direct, bilateral negotiations. The shortest distance between two points is a straight line, and the UN Security Council Resolution jeopardizes this process by interjecting itself into a potential peace agreement through direct negotiations between the two parties. “The UN Security Council Resolution fails to consider details such as the practical concerns on the ground and necessary geographical adjustments that would need to be made. Achieving a peaceful and non-militarized two-state goal in this case is no easy task. The UN resolution 2334 will only serve to prevent the singular solution of direct communication, harming both the Middle East and American interests.” ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released the following statement on a proposed rule by Republican leadership on Monday, January 2, 2017 that would punish Representatives who record, take photos or broadcast anything from the House floor with fines and docked pay: “The First Amendment is a cornerstone of this Country’s democracy—foundational to the protection of our rights and freedoms as Americans. How can we pride ourselves on being a free nation with liberty and justice for all while denying these same rights to the duly elected representatives of the people who hold a duty to the Constitution and the people of the United States of America? “Under the veil of seeking ‘order and decorum,’ the Republicans shameful attempt to silence voices of elected officials who would zealously speak out on injustice is a slap in the face of a basic Constitutional right and should be opposed. House Democrats protested last year on the House floor when Republicans refused to do their job and pass commonsense gun safety laws to help protect American lives. Members of Congress are not out of order when they shine a light on injustice. Attempting to fine Representatives for exercising their constitutional rights should be seen for what it is—a disgraceful ploy by Republican leadership.” ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement on House Republicans amendment to the House Rules package which weakens the independence and bipartisanship of the office of Congressional Ethics: "It is sad that on our first day back in session, our ethical standards are being attacked. Control without accountability is a dangerous proposal, and the House Republican’s late night attempt to weaken the independence of the office of Congressional Ethics is especially disturbing. Congress must be held to the highest standards of ethics and any effort to dilute these standards in any way raises red flags to the intentions of this House majority. "This is no small matter, this is an alarming problem. The public should be concerned when our nation’s leaders propose—without prior notice or option for debate, to reduce transparency and block protections for anonymous complaints. Our ethical standards in Congress must not be compromised and House Democrats and all Members of Congress bound by our duty to our nation and the people of America should oppose these efforts." ###
12.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement regarding her appointment as Vice Chair of the Congressional Women’s Caucus for the 115th Congress: “I am honored to be a part of this bipartisan caucus advocating on behalf of women nation-wide. Working together to support the needs of women and families is a cornerstone to our country’s overall success. I am committed to collaborating in creating legislation that supports the needed and necessary goals of this Caucus. When women succeed America succeeds, and I’m excited to be a part of this Caucus and this movement supporting fairness and equality for all women.” ## Background: Founded in 1977, the Congressional Women’s Caucus has been a leading advocate on issues advancing the lives of women and families. Caucus members have helped pass legislation securing tougher child support enforcement, promoting women’s health, helping women business owners, and protecting victims of domestic violence and sexual assault.
12.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement regarding the nomination by the Trump administration of Dr. Ben Carson as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development: “The United States of America faces extreme challenges as it relates to housing needs and concerns. The American people deserve quality and qualified leadership as we move forward in this new administration and every appointment from the administration of President-elect Trump is critical to a successful future. “Should the nomination of Dr. Ben Carson be accepted and confirmed, I will be working tirelessly to ensure that the needs of Michigan’s 14th district are heard loud and clear. Dr. Carson is notably a man of intelligence and skill; however, this country needs a leader who will boldly tackle heavy housing issues such as urban development, fighting homelessness and housing discrimination and promoting equal opportunity. “While I question how Dr. Carson’s skills and expertise align with the position of HUD Secretary, it is my hope that he would work passionately for the people with sincere care and consideration for the needs of urban areas in our major cities, including his hometown of Detroit, Michigan.” ###
12.01.2016	December 1, 2016 | News Release WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement on her election as Secretary of the Congressional Black Caucus for the 115th Congress: “As a Member of Congress, it has been a humbling and amazing experience serving the constituents of Michigan’s 14th District. Now, as a part of leadership of the Congressional Black Caucus, this allows me to be a voice for African Americans not only for the 14th District, but for the needs and concerns of African American’s nation-wide. “Tackling the issues facing the African American community is no small task, but I am honored to join my colleagues in the fight for fairness and equality. We will continue to be a voice for the voiceless and uphold our role as the conscience of Congress.”
07.22.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE ANNOUNCES SUPPORT FOR HAMTRAMCK FIRE DEPARTMENT WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) announced that the Hamtramck Fire Department has been awarded assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. The Hamtramck Fire Department will receive over $2.3 million to support the hiring of firefighters and the recruitment and retention of volunteer firefighters. “I was pleased to support the Hamtramck Fire Department’s grant application, SAFER grants are critical to the emergency infrastructure. It is important that our firefighters are equipped with the resources and staffing they need to serve and protect our communities. I am proud that the families in Hamtramck will be able to count on a well-staffed department and quality training that could mean the difference between life or death,” said Congresswoman Lawrence. The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grants provided by FEMA are competitive grants that provide additional resources to ensure departments are appropriately staffed with qualified professional and volunteer firefighters.
07.18.2016	LAWRENCE STATEMENT ON THE POLICE SHOOTING IN BATON ROUGE WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence released the following statement following the brutal attack on officers in Baton Rouge today: "This morning, I am again saddened by yet another senseless act of gun violence. The death of the three officers in Baton Rouge and their colleagues who remain in critical condition is a tragedy. While we do not have all of the information at this moment, we do know that this is an attack on us all and far too often a reality in this country. We have marched, we have spoken, and we have prayed for an end to gun violence. But it isn't enough. We must keep peace in our communities and work together to end this epidemic. Not only for ourselves but for our children and the future of this great, resilient nation. On Friday, House Republicans left Washington without a vote to end the epidemic of gun violence in America. Ignoring the over 90 families who experience the pain of losing a loved one daily or the 300,000 Americans who lose their lives each year to gun violence. It is time for relief for our country and that time is now. My prayers are with the officers that were killed and injured in Baton Rouge today and their families. I pray that America can come together as a country in this time of sadness and disappointment." ###
07.13.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE NAMED ADOPTION COALITION CO-CHAIR FOR THE 114TH CONGRESS WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) has been named the newest co-chair for the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), in partnership with the Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCA). The CCA is the largest bicameral, bipartisan Congressional Member organization and works to engage Members of Congress on issues pertaining to children in need of permanency and adoption, children in the foster care system, and domestic and international child welfare, as well as to advocate for every child’s right to a safe, stable and loving family. The role of the CCA co-chairs is to lead and actively engage their colleagues in Congress and draft and support federal policies that help place children in families. Congresswoman Lawrence was elected to the House in 2014. Already, she has passed an amendment that requires the U.S. Secretary of Education to track the educational progress of foster youth in America. It was the first piece of legislation she introduced as a Representative. She also served as a host office this summer for one of CCAI’s Foster Youth Internship Program® interns. Lawrence was a member of the school board and served as the Mayor of Southfield, Michigan, from 2001 to 2015. She has served as a strong advocate for foster youth in her district. “I ran for Congress so that I could help my constituents see a difference in their lives. My district alone has nearly 8,000 children in foster care, who are among our most vulnerable populations. I am honored to be called to serve in a leadership role for the CCA and in coordination with CCAI, where I can have an impact for foster youth in my district and across the country,” Congresswoman Lawrence said. Lawrence joins the CCA’s current three co-chairs: Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Representative Trent Franks of Arizona. By joining the CCA, Members of Congress have the opportunity to participate in programs and events throughout the year that allow them to interact with vulnerable children and youth, the families that care for them, and subject matter experts to hear the stories of the challenges and opportunities they experience and to strengthen federal policy with this information. The co-chairs and CCA are supported by CCAI, the non-profit institute dedicated to raising awareness about children in need of families both domestically and internationally and to eliminating the policy barriers that hinder children from finding their forever families. Congresswoman Lawrence has been able to put her passion for child welfare into action from the start of her work in Congress. Having an amendment pass – one of the few with bipartisan support – is no easy task, and is testament to her commitment and ability in this area. She is excited to accept this historic role of leading this premier congressional caucus committed to policies that help foster youth and place children in families. Today there are over 415,000 children in foster care, and nearly 108,000 of these children are eligible for adoption, waiting for families to call their own. Children living in orphanages globally are estimated conservatively at eight million, with unknown numbers living on the streets. ###
07.08.2016	LAWRENCE STATEMENT ON DALLAS SHOOTINGS AND DEATHS OF ALTON STERLING AND PHILANDO CASTILE WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following statement on the shooting in Dallas, Texas and shooting deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile: “As a citizen of the United States, I am heartbroken by the tragedy we have experienced this week as a nation. The deaths of Alton Sterling, Philando Castile and the officers in Dallas are unacceptable. “We must no longer plea, no longer request, no longer ignore the outpouring of heartbreak our nation has experienced. To wait another day is to give up on another American life. We must demand justice. Justice for our police officers, our children, and our nation. We must address the crisis of gun violence in America. “In the spirit of nonviolence, we must peacefully work together to provide relief to our communities and every person who has lost a loved one to gun violence. I am determined to speak out for my consistency and force this Congress to do their jobs. It is time for action and that time is now.” ###
06.29.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE AND STATE REP. MOSS TO HONOR LOCAL HEALTH CARE ACTIVIST WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and State Representative Jeremy Moss (D-Southfield) will hold a press conference to honor local health care activist, Rose Ibokette-Perkins. After losing her son to Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD), Ms. Ibokett-Perkins’ advocated for change. Through her advocacy work with Congresswoman Lawrence in Washington and Representative Moss locally, a newborn ALD screening panel has been added successfully. The press conference will take place at 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, June 30, at the Heart Institute Auditorium at Providence Hospital, 16001 W. Nine Mile Road in Southfield, Michigan. WHO: Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), State Rep. Jeremy Moss (D-Southfield), and Rose Ibokette-Perkins ​WHERE: Providence Hospital – Heart Institute Auditorium 16001 W. Nine Mile Road Southfield, MI WHEN: Thursday, June 30, at 1:00 p.m.
06.29.2016	MICHIGAN HOUSE DEMOCRATS UNITE TO URGE CONTINUED ACTION ON BIPARTISAN GUN SAFETY LEGISLATION BERKLEY, MI – Michigan Democrats from the U.S. House of Representatives today continued to call for votes on bipartisan commonsense gun safety legislation. In addition to the Representatives, the event was attended by mayors, police chiefs, members of the clergy, Michigan State representatives, as well as a number of organizations and community members committed to ending the epidemic of gun violence. The discussion focused on two bills, “No Fly No Buy,” which would prevent people on the terrorist watch list from purchasing guns, and another measure which would keep guns away from dangerous individuals by expanding criminal background checks to close online purchase and gun show loopholes. This event was a part of the larger National Day of Action, where over 30 events were held in communities across the nation. Rep. Lawrence said: “This is a call to action! National Day of Action gives us the opportunity to continue the conversation here in Michigan. To hear from our communities regarding their frustration with gun violence in our communities. Our historic, sit-in on the Floor of the House of Representatives last week has energized our constituencies. They are tired of moments of silence, they are ready for action and Congress must step up and lead against the devastation of gun violence in this country.” Rep. Conyers said: “Whether mass shootings or killings on our streets, there are too many tragedies and too many families shattered by gun violence. I am pleased to join my Congressional colleagues today in a critical discussion about gun violence prevention, to engage with our community about what is happening on this issue and what more we can do here and in Washington to make us all safer.” Rep. Dingell said: "As we continue to have this discussion, it is imperative that we protect Second Amendment rights while working to stop the violence that is happening in too many of our communities. Today we came together as Michiganders, as people of faith, as survivors of abuse, as members of law enforcement, as mothers, fathers, brothers, and sisters to say let us take some simple steps to keep guns out of the hands of those who should not have them - terrorists, domestic abusers and those with serious mental illness. We can make our communities safer while respecting the rights of responsible, law-abiding citizens. We can and should do both." Rep. Kildee said: “Michiganders have made it clear that they want Congress to do its job and act to prevent suspected terrorists from getting deadly weapons. For the vast majority of Americans, this is a no-brainer – if you are too dangerous to fly on a plane, you are too dangerous to own a gun. A majority of Americans, including the majority of law-abiding gun owners, also agree that we must close dangerous loopholes that allow criminals to buy a weapon at a gun show or online without a background check. Congress can – and must – act on these commonsense gun safety measures to protect the American people.” Rep. Levin said: “We’ve come to a turning point – our voices are united in telling Republicans moments of silence cannot replace the need for times of action. In a democracy there is a need for leadership from above and leadership from the grassroots. We are here to show that the public cares and Congress must lead in taking action.” Former Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, gun violence victim and co-founder of the gun violence prevention organization Americans for Responsible Solutions said: “Just one week after the historic sit-in on the House floor, tomorrow leaders in Congress will hold yet another historic event to urge our elected officials in the U.S. House of Representatives to hold a vote on bipartisan legislation that protects the rights of law-abiding Americans, keeps guns out of the wrong hands, and saves lives. I want to thank Congressman Conyers, Congresswoman Dingell, Congressman Kildee, Congresswoman Lawrence, and Congressman Levin for helping lead the fight against our nation’s gun violence crisis. Speaking is difficult for me. But I haven't been silenced. And neither should the American people. Their Representatives must vote to make our communities safer.” ###
06.28.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE STATEMENT ON SUPREME COURT DECISION IN TEXAS REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS CASE WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, rejecting Texas’s efforts to undermine a woman’s constitutionally protected right to make her own health decisions: “Today’s ruling marks a historic victory for women across this country! I applaud the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down a shameless attempt to steal a woman’s access to comprehensive health care, a right guaranteed by the Constitution. “While this ruling is a major step forward, we must continue to fight changes and reforms that endanger and limit a woman’s right to health care, family planning, and affordable contraception. “The Constitution grants women the right to take charge of their own health, not her partner, her physician and surely not male policy makers in Washington. I will continue to stand against Republicans and any other group that seeks to attack the rights of women and their reproductive health.” ###
06.22.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE INTRODUCES H.R. 5543 - THE ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH WORKFORCE ACT OF 2016 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) introduced H.R. 5543, the Environmental Health Workforce Act of 2016, which would prioritize education and training for existing and new environmental health professionals. “The recent water crisis in Flint, Michigan highlighted the critical role of our environmental health workforce,” Congresswoman Lawrence said. “Every American deserves the right to safe drinking water, clean air to breathe, and a healthy community to raise their children. H.R. 5543 ensures that quality by providing professionals across the nation with the proper education and training to safeguard and promote healthcare quality and accessibility.” Congresswoman Lawrence was joined by the bill’s original co-sponsors, Ranking Democrat of the House Judiciary Committee Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), and Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-5). H.R. 5543 was endorsed by the National Environmental Health Association (NEHA). “All Americans have the right to safe food, water, and communities,” said David T. Dyjack, Dr.PH, CIH, Executive Director & CEO, National Environmental Health Association. “Environmental health professionals are educated and trained to a consistent set of standards and guidelines assuring that right. Representative Lawrence’s leadership, through this landmark legislation, should give every community peace of mind in knowing that their family’s health and safety are assured by qualified, accountable, and efficient professionals. We praise the Congresswoman’s efforts to shine a light on this issue of strategic national importance, as Zika, Flint, and food safety dominate the news.” H.R. 5543 directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), in conjunction with relevant stakeholders, to develop model standards, guidelines, and technical assistance for credentialing environmental health workers as well as developing a comprehensive workforce plan that identifies and addresses ways to strengthen the environmental health workforce. Finally, H.R. 5543 would direct the Comptroller General of the United States to examine and identify best practices in six states related to training and credentialing requirements for environmental health workers. “The process of identifying gaps between the performance of existing environmental health programs and those of the future, as outlined in this legislation, will provide a roadmap to rebuild the local workforce, restore our faith in government, and renew our commitment to our children’s quality of life,” said Rep. Lawrence. ###
06.21.2016	TOMORROW: CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE JOINS CONGRESSMAN KILDEE, CONGRESSMAN TROTT, AND CONGRESSMAN CLAWSON ON A BIPARTISAN TOUR OF THE SAB SECOND CHANCE HOME WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence will join Congressman Dan Kildee, Congressman Dave Trott, and Congressman Curt Clawson to tour the SAB Second Chance Home. The SAB Second Chance Home is a non-profit in Detroit that creates a safe and nurturing environment for mothers and their children. WHO: Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence, Congressman Dan Kildee, Congressman Dave Trott and Congressman Curt Clawson WHAT: Tour of SAB Second Chance Home WHEN: Saturday, June 18, 2016, at 8:30a.m. WHERE: 20231 Barlow St, Detroit, MI 48205 ###
06.14.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE DEMANDS ACTION AFTER ORLANDO WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) spoke on the House Floor regarding the deadliest mass shooting in American history. “Over 200 years ago, when our constitution was authored, it ignored the backbone of the American people. Women, African Americans, Latinos and even white men who did not own property. “However, the beauty of our constitution and our democracy is our ability to change, the power to amend. The United States Constitution has the power to protect and reflect the will of the people. Our forefathers could not anticipate the introduction of assault rifles into the United States. We could not anticipate that 32,000 Americans per year, would lose their lives at the hands of gun violence. “It is now time to act. Congresswoman Lawrence Speech on Orlando.mp4 “To do the job we were elected to do by the people of this great nation. Since its inception, we have amended the constitution 27 times. It is time for us to once again lead the world and put an end to the heinous attacks and violence that America has witnessed “Mr. Speaker it is time for Congress to act.” On Sunday, June 12, 2016, around 2:00 a.m. an armed gunman carried an assault rifle and a pistol into an Orlando nightclub club killing 49 people and wounding at least 53 individuals. ###
06.13.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE STATEMENT ON ORLANDO SHOOTING WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement regarding the tragic mass shooting last night in Orlando, Florida: “Human lives matter, there is no numeric equivalency to the value of a human life. Today, I offer my deepest condolences to the families and victims of last night’s mass shooting in Orlando. “While there are no words that will console those hurting today, we must stand together as a country for the value of human life. The epidemic of gun violence in America must come to an end. “My thoughts and prayers are with the loved ones of all affected by last night’s tragic attack. It is my hope that you may find comfort and strength during this difficult time,” said Congresswoman Lawrence. ###
06.10.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE REMEMBERS HOCKEY LEGEND GORDIE HOWE WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement regarding the passing of hockey legend Gordie Howe: “It is with sincere sorrow that I extend my deepest condolences to the family of Detroit Red Wings legend Gordie Howe. Howe was a four-time Stanley Cup champion, setting the standard for excellence in a city well-known for its hockey prowess. His remarkable career contributed to Detroit’s nickname, Hockeytown. My thoughts and prayers remain with Howe’s family and the Detroit Red Wings as they mourn the loss of a legend,” said Congresswoman Lawrence. Hockey legend Gordie Howe died at the age of 88 on Friday, the Detroit Red Wings have confirmed. Howe, known nationwide as Mr. Hockey, holds NHL records for most games (1,767) and seasons (26) played. His 801 career goals rank second to Wayne Gretzky's 894. The Hall of Famer played on four Stanley Cup championship teams during a 25-year stint with Detroit that began in 1946. He retired from hockey at the age of 52. ###
06.09.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN BRENDA LAWRENCE TO ATTEND OCCUPY CORNER KICK-OFF WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) will join Council Member Sheffield, Mayor Duggan, Congresswoman Lawrence, Chief Craig, Sheriff Napoleon and a host of others to kick-off Occupy the Corner – Detroit 2016. “I have witnessed first-hand, the devastation of violence in our community and I am continuously inspired by the unity and outpouring of love by our community after such events take place. There is power in the community and each day, I witness the power of the people in our great community. I am privileged to represent and serve this constituency and will continue to fight to improve my community, my State, and nation. Everyone deserves a community safe from violence, events such as “Occupy the Corners” promote and encourage community investment in making this world a better place,” said Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence. This year volunteers will hit the blocks in one of Detroit’s highest crime and impoverished neighborhoods to bring resources and hope to residents. On Friday, June 10, 2016, from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., the “Occupy the Corners” event will kick off its 10th annual summer-long initiative. ###
06.08.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE HOSTS LAWRENCE TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT DURING INDIAN PRIME MINISTER’S ADDRESS TO CONGRESS WASHINGTON, DC. - Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) hosted Lawrence Technological University President Virinder K. Moudgil during a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress featuring Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Today, Prime Minister Moudgil made history in the U.S. The Prime Minister’s speech today highlighted the traits of freedom and democracy that bond our two great nations. The Prime Minister’s words today demonstrate India’s commitment to model a sense of development and progress in partnership with the U.S. Modi’s words will serve to develop a more robust relationship with the U.S. and promote a new role of development for both countries,” said Congresswoman Lawrence. “I am thankful for the presence of my good friend President Moudgil during today’s speech. The Prime Minister’s words of partnership reminded me of the strong relationship President Moudgil and I have developed throughout my career of public service. The investment Lawrence Technical University has made to my district and region is invaluable. I will continue to advocate for education and promotion of opportunity within Michigan’s 14th Congressional District and throughout the country.” “I was honored to be invited by Congresswoman Lawrence to listen to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi’s address laid the foundation of commonality and mutual interest between the U.S. and India, marking the importance of partnership between countries,” said President Moudgil. “I am thankful for the Congresswoman’s support of her constituency and of Lawrence Technical University. My partnership with the Congresswoman dates back to her tenure as Mayor of Southfield where we sought opportunities for education and business development. I witnessed first-hand the Congresswoman’s commitment to her region and community and it gives me great pleasure to continue my work with her. I look forward to continuing to partner with her office and am pleased to support her initiatives in Southfield and throughout her district.” This event marks Prime Minister Modi’s fourth visit to the U.S., during which he will meet with President Barack Obama, business leaders, and think-tank chiefs. Mr. Modi’s speech celebrates India-U.S. ties as both countries seek to strengthen their engagement. ###
06.06.2016	Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence to Host Congressional Update Monday Washington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) will host a Congressional Update at 6:00 p.m. at Champp's West Bloomfield. The Congresswoman will give an update on her work in Washington and provide a brief question and answer session following. WHO: Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence WHAT: Congressional Update WHEN: Monday, June 6, 2016 at 6:00 PM WHERE: Champp’s West Bloomfield 7410 Orchard Lake Rd, West Bloomfield Township, MI 48322
05.27.2016	CONGRESSWOMAN LAWRENCE JOINS CONGRESSMAN FRENCH HILL ON THE HOUSE SKILLED WORKFORCE CAUCUS TOUR TO ARKANSAS WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) traveled throughout the Second Congressional District to promote jobs and opportunities in the skilled trades, stopping at Arkansas State University at Beebe’s John Deere Agriculture Technology program, the Be Pro Be Proud Initiative through the Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce at Maverick Transportation, and Dassault Falcon Jet. Congresswoman Lawrence created the Skilled Workforce Caucus last year, and Hill has served as Co-Chair since its inception. A major byproduct of the caucus has been the Skilled Workforce Initiative, where members travel to each other’s districts to not only discuss jobs and training, but also to get hands on experience with skilled workforce jobs. “I was pleased to join Congressman French Hill in Arkansas for the Skilled Workforce Initiative. This has been an amazing opportunity and I am proud of the investment these companies are making here in our country. In America, we must embrace and support industry as it is the heartbeat of our economy,” said Congresswoman Lawrence. “It is important that we introduce opportunities within the workforce to our children at an early age. We must continue to educate, nurture and embrace the development of skillsets that lead to jobs.” Lawrence’s visit to Arkansas was part of the Skilled Workforce Initiative, and was the second time the two members have traveled together to promote skilled workforce training and jobs. Last October, Hill visited Detroit for a similar trip. “In central Arkansas, and in a lot of places throughout the country, we desperately want job growth. As a legislator I am always thinking about policy areas to help spur economic growth, but the work of our caucus provides another avenue for making a difference,” said Hill. “Sometimes just engaging with communities, educators, and students on a regular basis can be the most effective tool for creating job growth.” The two met with educators at ASU-Beebe’s John Deere Ag Tech program this morning, before visiting Maverick Transportation and Dassault Falcon Jet in the afternoon. At Maverick Transportation, through the Be Pro Be Proud Initiative, Lawrence and Hill Lawrence received hands-on training with welding and truck driving simulators. ###
05.26.2016	LAWRENCE OP-ED: WE MUST BOLDLY AND INSISTENTLY COMBAT OPIOID ABUSE WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) wrote the following op-ed featured today by The Hill regarding the opioid epidemic sweeping the nation. To read the op-ed, click here or see below: “Prescribe until patients achieve pain relief.” A mantra that has destroyed lives and torn apart so many American families. The opioid epidemic has hit our country in a major way. Every 12 minutes, someone in the United States dies of a drug overdose. In Michigan, we have been hit especially hard by this crisis. From 1999 to 2014, Michigan’s drug death rate has grown faster than the national average. While Congress has been criticized for its lack of action and gridlock. On May 11, 2016, we came together to overwhelmingly to support H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act, or the “OPEN” Act. In an almost 100 percent bipartisan effort, Congress sought to bring relief to the millions of American families affected by this painful epidemic. The passage of the OPEN Act provides over 100 million dollars a year for the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program that will address the opioid abuse epidemic. The program will provide assistance and services related to opioid abuse epidemic. While there is no one - stop shop piece of legislation to stop this crisis, I am pleased by my colleagues’ commitment to address this fatal epidemic. In recent days, we have passed more than a dozen bills designed to address the opioid epidemic infiltrating parts of my district such as Oakland County where heroin-related deaths have increased dramatically and have expanded at an alarming rate community-wide. As a mother, I can only imagine the pain and grief faced by parents of a child lost as a result of an addiction or overdose. In my district, I know this image is far too often the reality for parents, grandparents, friends and families. While legislation could never bring back a loved one, it is my hope that begin to shield others from such grave loss. Inspiringly, the most recent pieces of legislation have received tremendous bipartisan support and are slated to be signed into law by President Obama. I seek to support all legislation that endeavors to address issues associated with the opioid epidemic, including prescription limits, Good Samaritan laws that protect individuals who attempt to save overdose victims, and support for addicted pregnant women. I will continue to support the bipartisan effort to combat opioid addiction and abuse. We must continue to produce innovative ideas that provide all those affected by this epidemic with the relief they need and deserve. Again, there is no easy cure to solving this epidemic, but I believe by boldly and insistently combatting opioid abuse we will turn the tide and save lives in the state of Michigan and across the country! ###
05.26.2016	MEDIA ADVISORY: CONGRESSWOMAN BRENDA LAWRENCE TO PARTICIPATE IN SKILLED WORKFORCE INITATIVE WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will travel throughout the Second Congressional District of Arkansas to promote jobs and opportunities in the skilled trades. Congresswoman Lawrence and Congressman Hill and are co-chairs of the Skilled Workforce Caucus, a bipartisan group that is committed to shrinking the “skills gap” by supporting the development of the skilled trades throughout the entire country. Last October, Congresswoman Lawrence hosted Congressman Hill in her district. During last October’s visit the Congresswoman exposed Congressman Hill to companies, organizations, and employees in Detroit that are directly tied to work in the skilled trades. The Congresswoman’s visit on Friday will highlight opportunities for training in the skilled workforce as well as career opportunities. The following events are open to the press: Friday, May 27, 2016 Arkansas State University at Beebe John Deere Agriculture Technology 9:30AM-10:30AM 1000 Iowa Street, Beebe, AR 72012 Maverick Transportation 11:00AM-12:00PM 13301 Valentine Road, North Little Rock, AR 72117 Dassault Falcon Jet 2:00PM-3:30PM 3801 E. 10th Street, Little Rock, AR 72202 ###
05.24.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) joined Congressman John Conyers, Jr. during a press conference to announce the introduction of the Water Affordability, Transparency, Equity and Reliability (WATER) Act. This legislation would provide dedicated funding to modernize U.S. water infrastructure. “Today, I stand with the hundreds of cities and towns across this nation that are at risk due to the instability of American’s drinking water infrastructure. It is time that we ensure every American citizen the right to clean, safe drinking water,” said Congresswoman Lawrence. “The WATER Act is the most comprehensive and robust funding proposal this country has seen. This piece of legislation closes the long-term funding gap facing clean water infrastructure systems across the country and restores the security of America’s water system for years to come. “I look forward to the bipartisan support of my colleagues in Congress and urge the swift passage of the WATER Act.” ###
05.23.2016	Washington, D.C. — Tomorrow, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) will join Congressman John Conyers, Jr. during a press conference to announce the introduction of the Water Affordability, Transparency, Equity and Reliability (WATER) Act. This legislation would provide dedicated funding to modernize U.S. water infrastructure and help to combat water infrastructure needs across the country. WHO: Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) WHAT: Press Conference Introducing the Water Affordability, Transparency, Equity and Reliability (WATER) Act. WHERE: House Triangle on Capitol Hill, Washington, D.C. WHEN: Tuesday, May 24, 2016, 1:00 p.m. ###
04.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) announced Friday, April 22nd, that the joint effort with Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters and Reps. Sandy Levin and Debbie Dingell to stop the IRS from moving more than 90 jobs from the Detroit Computing Center to Tennessee has succeeded. In a letter dated April 22, 2016, IRS Commissioner John A. Koskinen stated that the department in question, and all of its employees, will remain in Detroit in their current downtown location, at 985 Michigan Ave. Commissioner Koskinen also wrote, “We worked closely with GSA over the last several months to identify alternative locations for our Correspondence Services function. In the end, we jointly determined the best and most cost-effective option for the federal government was to remain in the current location.” In their letter to the IRS, Rep. Lawrence and her colleagues expressed grave concerns about the IRS’ plan to shut down one floor of the Detroit Computing Center and move jobs associated with Correspondence Services out of state. The delegation also stressed its expectation that the IRS and U.S. General Services Administration must continue to search for a new location in the Metropolitan Detroit area before moving the printing and mailing jobs across the country. The letter followed several meetings Congresswoman Lawrence held with the IRS, the Administration, and members of the Michigan delegation. “I am deeply gratified by the outcome of this effort to save not only the jobs of hard-working Detroiters, but the very community that these people call home,” Congresswoman Lawrence said. “Uprooting these workers, and their families, to move 750 miles from their homes, schools, churches, relatives, and friends would have had a devastating impact for all involved. I am grateful that the Administration and the IRS recognized the stakes of such a move, and were able to see the true cost of such action.” The Congresswoman added, “This proves two critical points: that the Administration remains strong in its support of Detroit, and all of Michigan; and that when we work together there is no challenge too great to overcome.”
04.13.2016	Contact: Tracy Manzer, Director of Communications, 202-225-5802 or tracy.manzer@mail.house.gov April 13, 2016 | News Release WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today issued the following statement regarding the recent death of Rev. Nicholas Hood, Sr. “I was deeply saddened to hear about the passing of Rev. Nicholas Hood, Sr. Rev. Hood has served as one of the finest examples and inspirations for so many Detroiters like myself. His lifelong dedication to social justice and commitment to Detroit and public service, including his nearly 30 years on the Detroit City Council, was never in doubt. Detroit has suffered a devastating loss with his passing. We will, however, be forever grateful and better for his work on behalf of the most deserving and most vulnerable members of our community. Let us all take his example of selflessness and compassion to heart and use his shining example as a guide to continue to make Detroit, and Michigan, better for all of its citizens. I extend my deepest condolences to Rev. Hood’s family and friends in their time of grief, and I hope that they may take some small comfort in the knowledge that his legacy will continue to live on.” ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released the following statement in response to a series of terror attacks in Brussels that have resulted in multiple deaths and many more injured individuals. "My deepest sympathy and most heartfelt thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and their families in the Brussels terror attacks. It is moments like these that remind us that we must remain steadfast and resolute in our fight against terrorism both here at home and abroad. Such moments also remind us that retreating to a position of fear is not acceptable, nor is it an effective way to deal with terrorism. We can’t let such atrocities weaken strong democratic ideals or allow them to be used as an excuse to target our fellow American citizens and those seeking asylum. America succeeds on the strength of our values and those values are what we must use to guide us now as we work with our Belgian allies, and our allies around the world, to address this insidious threat.”
03.03.2016	DETROIT – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), today will host the 26 Member Congressional Delegation for an evening briefing in Detroit in preparation for tomorrow’s Speak-Out event, led by Rep. Dan Kildee, the Congressional Black Caucus, and the Congressional Progressive Caucus. House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, CBC Chairman G.K. Butterfield, CPC Chairman Keith Ellison, Members of the Michigan Delegation, and other Members gather this evening for an update on the resources and efforts that have gone into the response to the Flint water crisis and a discussion on the larger issue of water infrastructure needs in Michigan and throughout the United States. “The CBC was among the first to demand a thorough federal investigation of the Flint water crisis and we will be visiting with Flint families to further amplify the urgency of this health and environmental crisis. More must be done to ensure the families impacted by this catastrophe are made whole again,” said CBC Chairman G.K. Butterfield. “There must be proper oversight and accountability. This crisis demands more and we must all do our part to ensure the citizens of Flint have the resources they need, both in the short- and long-term. The State of Michigan has an obligation to resolve this emergency faced by the citizens of Flint. We will travel to Flint to hear from the people who are most impacted by this travesty and continue to focus our work on this crisis and its long term affects until it has been resolved.” “What is happening to families in Flint is a tragedy. Every level of government must act in a coordinated effort to solve this crisis. Members of Congress are going to Flint to listen to residents directly and see first-hand what their needs are. With investments in health, education and infrastructure, the children of Flint can live successful, healthy lives. We cannot turn our backs on them, or the children of any other city like it. We must act,” said CBC Chairman Keith Ellison. Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), the Ranking Member on the House Committee on the Judiciary, will provide a review of the constitutional issues posed by the Emergency Management System put in place by Gov. Rick Snyder in spite of Michigan voters’ overwhelming rejection. “Gov. Snyder’s Emergency Manager law created a democratic crisis in Michigan, which has in turn created economic and environmental crises across the state, whether you are talking about the disaster with Flint’s water or the ignored problems in Detroit’s schools. It will require a tremendous effort to undo the damage that has been done—but I am grateful that my Democratic colleagues from across the country have taken such a strong interest in the problems we face, and I am encouraged by the growing voices of our citizens who are demanding change,” said Rep. Conyers. Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee said, “The interest from Members of Congress from throughout our nation demonstrates to Flint they want to help, and is deeply appreciated. It also illustrates the overall gravity of this crisis. I look forward to hearing the latest updates from some of the groups providing services to residents and to being back in Flint tomorrow. Since our last visit, the federal government has responded with increased access to Head Start and health care services, as well as directed oversight of the water testing. We must continue to do more, especially at the State level, which bears the most burden for causing this human tragedy.” Updates on case management in Flint for children and families affected by the lead poisoning of the city and the use of and need for federal resources will be provided by the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO; the American Red Cross; and Planned Parenthood Advocates of Michigan. “What’s happening in Flint is an issue of reproductive health care, rights and justice,” said Lori Carpentier, CEO of Planned Parenthood Advocates of Michigan. “The people here have the right to raise and care for their families in a safe, fair and healthy environment. Unfortunately -- this isn’t the reality. We’ve been serving the community for over 50 years, and have been in early partnership to help find solutions to the reproductive health and environmental justice problem plaguing Flint. It’s our duty as a member of the Flint community to fight with our partners for solutions that will not only make right what caused this situation in Flint, but also guarantee that it will never happen again.” Brad Kieserman, Vice President for Disaster Operations and Logistics for the American Red Cross said, "The American Red Cross is part of team of many partners committed to supporting our neighbors in Flint during this challenging time. Working with our partners, we’ve helped to mobilize over 2,500 volunteers to develop and support a community-based distribution network that's placed of tens of thousands of bottles of water, thousands of water filters and cartridges, and vital information in the hands of residents through more than 52,000 home visits.” Rep. Lawrence said, “I want to thank Leader Pelosi and my congressional colleagues in the CPC and CBC for recognizing the urgent need to meet with the people of Flint, who have had their rights violated and their trust shattered. I also want to thank the American Red Cross, Planned Parenthood, AFSCME, and all the other agencies and organizations that have gone above and beyond in their response to this man-made disaster. Their assistance has been crucial in helping these families as they work to rebuild their health and their lives.” “This visit will allow Flint residents, including the parents of nearly 10,000 children who were poisoned in order for the state to save money, the chance to speak with members about their needs,” Rep. Lawrence said. “This will also help members understand how federal resources have been used in response to this crisis, and the ongoing needs of not only Flint but cities throughout the nation that are at risk due to our aging water infrastructure. Since my election to Congress, I have made investment in Michigan’s infrastructure a priority due to the devastating impact felt every day by hard-working Americans. Flint has shown us in no uncertain terms that we cannot kick the can down the road on this issue any longer.”
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), the Ranking Member on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on the Interior, released the following statement regarding Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder agreeing to testify before Congress. “I am thankful Gov. Rick Snyder has finally recognized the need to step up and aid Congress in the search for truth and justice on behalf of the city of Flint, and the children and families who will forever be scarred by this manmade disaster. His testimony could not have been secured without the full dedication and power of the Committee, on both sides of the aisle. This is also proof that the search for truth and the power of truth will always triumph in the end,” Ranking Member Lawrence said. “I fully expect Gov. Snyder will provide a complete account of how the poisoning of an entire city was allowed to occur. The questions are simple, and have gone unanswered for far too long. The people of Flint and the American public deserve to know the following: who made the decision to shift the water system from Detroit to the Flint river, why did they ignore longstanding evidence of problems with the Flint water system, and when did they become aware of the massive amounts of lead being consumed by unsuspecting residents following the April 25th, 2014 shift.” In the interest of transparency and full disclosure, Ranking Member Lawrence is also releasing a copy of the executed subpoena ordering Darnell Early to Washington to answer questions about his role in the crisis as the former Flint Emergency Manager, appointed by Gov. Snyder. “It is my sincere hope that Mr. Earley complies with this subpoena in the spirit in which it is intended; that is to uncover the information needed to address this ongoing crisis and to ensure that no city in America suffers such a monumental catastrophe ever again.” According to the signed document, the subpoena was executed at approximately 9:40 a.m. on February 4th, 2016. The subpoena directs Mr. Earley to appear for a deposition before Committee Counsel on Feb. 25th. Click on Redacted Subpoena to Earley (002).pdf to view the subpoena. “Though the deposition is not a public venue, I want to assure the people of Flint, and the American public, that I will be there and that I and my colleagues will not rest until all of the necessary questions are answered.”
02.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – The Co-Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus Keith Ellison (D-MN), Rep. Dan Kildee (D-MI), Rep. Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), and Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) announced that Members of Congress will travel to Flint, Michigan to hold a community “Speak Out” event on March 4, 2016. During the event, members of the community will speak before Members of Congress about how their lives have been affected since their water supply was contaminated with lead. Additional details to come. “Flint is a catastrophe that needs Congress’ attention,” said Rep. Keith Ellison. “With more than 8,000 children and thousands of other residents being exposed to lead contaminated water, we should listen to the people of Flint – something too many in the state failed to do.” “I want to thank my colleagues for traveling to Flint to meet directly with families affected by the ongoing water crisis,” said Rep. Dan Kildee. “What is happening in my hometown breaks my heart. Resources are needed right now for Flint and the families, particularly children, who are the victims of this terrible tragedy. Governor Snyder, whose administration’s policies created this public health emergency, has a moral obligation to help the victims of this crisis.” “I am proud to join my colleague Rep. Dan Kildee and my colleagues in the CPC and CBC in the further fight to seek the truth in the Flint Water Crisis and provide justice for the nearly 100,000 people of Flint, especially to the thousands of children irreparably harmed in this manmade crisis,” said Rep. Brenda Lawrence. “Our first priority should be for all of us, Democrats and Republicans, to work together to fix this crisis. Our second priority is to hold the individuals responsible for this crisis accountable. We are traveling to Flint in a unified front so that we can get to the bottom of the crisis and prevent the poisoning of other American cities. We are joining forces for the good of the people we serve and to regain the trust of Flint and the American public. Together, we will uncover the truth, correct the mistakes made, provide for the children and families of Flint, and see that justice is served.” “What has happened in Flint should touch the heart of anyone who has compassion for others, and especially for those who care for the well-being and safety of our children,” said CBC Chairman G. K. Butterfield. “The CBC was among the first to demand a thorough federal investigation of the Flint water crisis and we will be among those visiting with Flint families to further amplify the urgency of this situation. More must be done to ensure the families impacted by this crisis are made whole again, and that charge falls directly with Governor Rick Snyder. There was a clear lack of oversight and accountability, and while short-term efforts and bottled water are helpful, this crisis demands more. The State of Michigan has an obligation to resolve this emergency the citizens of Flint face. We will travel to Flint to hear from the people who are most impacted by this travesty and continue to focus our work on this crisis and its long term affects until it has been resolved.”
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Ranking Member on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on the Interior, today joined Congressional Black Caucus Chairman G.K. Butterfield in his call for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to prevent Senate Republicans from blocking emergency relief for the citizens of Flint, Michigan. “The Flint water crisis demands that all of the United States Congress, both the House and the Senate, works together to get to the bottom of this manmade catastrophe and ensure that it never occurs anywhere in America again,” Rep. Lawrence said. “This problem has irreparably harmed thousands of children; children who face a lifetime of physical, mental, and emotional disabilities. It has negatively impacted every resident in the town of Flint; residents who are left with homes they cannot sell and an uncertain future. The gravity of this situation demands that we set aside party politics and join together in the search for truth and justice. To do anything less would further violate the trust of the people of Flint, and the American people.” Ranking Member Lawrence called on Sen. McConnell to work with Democrats in the wake of Senate Republicans’ reversal on an emergency aid package for Flint. The package was proposed by Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters through an amendment to the Energy Policy and Modernization Act, which is currently under consideration in the Senate. Senate Republicans and Democrats initially agreed to the amendment, but Republicans later reversed course and decided to block federal assistance to the residents of Flint, Michigan. “Requesting assistance for state disasters is a common occurrence among both Republicans and Democrats. Though that assistance normally follows natural disasters, I see absolutely no reason why the people of Flint should be denied assistance simply because they have suffered at the hands of state leaders who have poisoned an entire city in the pursuit of saving a few dollars per household,” Rep. Lawrence added. “I must ask, how any of us can look at the faces of these poisoned children and fail to fulfill our duty to do whatever we can to fix this problem and provide the support that the people of Flint need and deserve?”
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) on Monday introduced H.R. 4415 to establish an Early Federal Pell Grant Commitment Program. This companion bill to Sen. Debbie Stabenow’s S. 1128 seeks to increase the number of low-income students pursuing college educations by empowering students and their families with valuable information about Pell Grant programs. “One of the best ways to close economic barriers to post-secondary education is to provide an early commitment and more information on financial aid available to low-income students. Some states that have adopted pilot programs for early financial aid commitment and education have seen 20% to 30% increases in college enrollment,” Rep. Lawrence said. “Our students deserve to know that if they work hard and graduate from high school there are resources to help pay for college. That is why I have introduced the Early Pell Promise Act, a House companion bill to Senator Stabenow’s Senate Bill S. 1128.” The Early Pell Promise Act would focus on low-income students in 8th grade by ensuring they are aware of their eligibility for at least two years of Pell grants to be made available if they attend college. In addition, twice a year, low-income families will receive information about the cost of college and student financial aid career programs from state and federal government offices so that those families may plan ahead accordingly. A 2015 study by the Pell Institute and the University of Pennsylvania Alliance for Higher Education and Democracy found students from upper-income families were eight times more likely to receive a bachelor’s degree than students from families with the lowest incomes. The congresswoman’s bill, introduced on the House Floor late Monday, seeks to close that gap for low-income students and families, which will ultimately help bolster the American workforce and economy. “I am pleased to have Congresswoman Lawrence’s support as we work together to advance this critical legislation,” Sen. Stabenow said. “Every child in America, no matter their financial situation, should know that if they work hard, study hard, and get good grades, the opportunity to attend college will be available after high school." “Education is a key component to investing in our nation’s future and our economy,” Rep. Lawrence added. “Whether working towards a degree or a certificate, students who pursue post-secondary education statistically prove to have higher earnings and lower unemployment rates than those with a high school diploma. Yet for far too many students and their hard-working families college seems like an unattainable goal. This legislation along with Sen. Stabenow’s bill will ensure deserving students get the support and information that they need and deserve.”
01.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Interior, was notified today that the hearing she requested regarding the ongoing public health crisis in Flint, Michigan will be convened on February 3, 2016, as previously stated. In the notice, Ranking Member Lawrence learned the hearing will not include Gov. Rick Snyder, despite her formal request to include the governor along with other officials from all levels of government involved in the crisis and the subsequent response. “Gov. Rick Snyder was at the top of my list of witnesses due to the central role that he has played in this manmade crisis; from the decision to shift from Flint’s original water source for cost-savings to the appalling delay in response to months of complaints by lead-poisoned residents and their children,” Ranking Member Lawrence said. “I am deeply disappointed at the Majority’s lack of commitment to a thorough and meaningful hearing. A sincere search for truth and justice requires a full review by the entire Committee of the decisions and policies of all those involved. The nearly 100,000 people of Flint who have been permanently impacted by this crisis, either directly or indirectly, demands that Congress set aside party politics if we are to ensure that this never again occurs in Flint or any city in America.” Included in Ranking Member Lawrence’s January 12, 2016 request for the hearing was a list of local, state, and federal witnesses: Michigan Governor Rick Snyder; Dan Wyant, former director of MDEQ; Susan Hedman, region 5 director, EPA; Dr. Mona Hanna-Atissha, director of Pediatric Residency Program, Hurley Medical Center; Flint Mayor Karen Weaver; and Virginia Tech Professor Mark Edwards. In her request for the hearing, Ranking Member Lawrence cited concerns over evidence that shows local, state and federal government officials knew, or should have known, about the risks to human health as a result of their decision to end a 50 year contract with Detroit for drinking water and enter into a new contract to receive water from the Flint River. Within a year of the new contract, multiple researchers – including MDEQ and EPA – found carcinogens and lead in the water. “I am continuing in my fight for all those involved, including Gov. Snyder, to come to the Capitol and provide the people of Flint, and the American public, with the full disclosure and explanation that they need and deserve,” Ranking Member Lawrence added. “The only way that we can hope to earn back the shattered trust of the American public is for our government leaders to put the needs and interests of the people we serve above all else.”
01.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Interior, announced her formal request to Chairman Jason Chaffetz and Subcommittee Chairman Cynthia Lummis for a hearing on the public health crisis of high concentrations of lead in the drinking water in Flint, Michigan. “We trust our government to protect the health and safety of our communities, and this includes the promise of clean water to drink and clean air to breath,” Ranking Member Lawrence said. “Unfortunately, the people of Flint have had their trust violated. This public health crisis was caused by state and local officials, who made tragically bad decisions with the drinking water of Flint. Congressional oversight is needed to set things right, on behalf of the people of Flint and on behalf of future generations. Anything less than that would demonstrate gross negligence in providing the services that our constituents need and deserve.” In the letter requesting the hearing, Lawrence expressed concern that evidence shows that local and state government officials knew, or should have known, about the risks to human health posed by their decision to end its 50 year contract with Detroit for drinking water and enter into a new contract to receive water from the Flint River. Within a year of the new contract, multiple researchers -- including the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) -- found carcinogens and lead in the water. On January 5, 2016, Michigan Governor Rick Snyder declared a state of emergency for Flint and Genesee County and finally switched back to Detroit Water. “It is estimated that thousands of children in Flint have been exposed to lead-tainted water, even after parents were assured it was safe,” Lawrence said. “This was all done to save a few dollars. In Detroit, we are engaged in an air quality war, and yet, the MDEQ has remained silent about a company’s proposal to release additional pollutants into our atmosphere. Detroit children struggle with the highest rate of asthma among America’s 18 largest cities. Our local and state government’s failure to address the Flint water crisis and other health hazards not only impacts the immediate health of these innocent children, but it can also lead to lasting and irreversible harm. This includes a range of learning, physical, and behavioral disabilities. This is unacceptable.” Ranking Member Lawrence has been working on this issue extensively. She has met with the Environmental Protection Agency and the MDEQ on this issue, and she is working with House Committee on the Judiciary Chairman John Conyers and Rep. Dan Kildee to address the lack of environmentally sound infrastructure throughout Metropolitan Detroit and the state of Michigan. “The situation in Flint represents a crisis of leadership on all levels, and we must ensure that we take the appropriate steps to ensure that similar situations do not occur elsewhere,” Lawrence continued. “This hearing should examine the actions of key decision-makers who played a role in the development of this completely avoidable crisis.”
01.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement regarding the North American International Auto Show, which begins tomorrow at Cobo Center in Michigan’s 14th Congressional District. The congresswoman and several of her colleagues in the Michigan delegation will kickoff the start of the nation’s largest international auto show with a tour tomorrow morning. “I am extremely proud to see the North American International Auto Show return to my Congressional District to celebrate the best that the auto industry has to offer. The American auto industry has made amazing strides, including last year’s record breaking car sales that capped a six-year growth streak -- one we haven’t seen since World War II. Federal investment in our auto industry has clearly succeeded as it has been fully repaid and yielded an additional $2.4 billion in profits. More than half a million jobs have been created and automakers are now able to shift their focus to high tech industry growth in Metropolitan Detroit. The auto industry is clearly a major contributor in Detroit becoming America's greatest comeback story."
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today released a statement regarding the meeting she attended with President Barack Obama and a small group of other Members of Congress on Monday, and her participation in the President’s White House Address on gun violence today. “I strongly support the President’s proposal to address gun violence by providing for new ATF and FBI resources and staff as well as support for mental health programs and reviews. Nothing in the President’s proposal restricts our 2nd Amendment right to bear arms or 4th Amendment right to privacy. It does, however, address several loopholes that gun dealers have been able to exploit for far too long. It also addresses the appalling lack of access to information related to people who have been legally determined unfit to purchase firearms. This includes felons, those convicted of misdemeanor domestic violence, and people who have been found to be a risk to themselves and others and prohibited from possessing a firearm for mental health reasons.” America’s failure to act on this most important issue has come at a devastating cost for Detroit and for all of Michigan. As of September, the number of homicides in Detroit was up 5 percent as compared to the same period in 2014, according to the Detroit Police Department. According to state data, the vast majority of the homicides in Detroit in 2013 were related to gun violence (247 of the 291 homicides listed). Additionally, Michigan had 3,000 gun deaths categorized as homicides from 2008 to 2013 and 70 percent of those slayings occurred in Wayne County, which includes Detroit. These deaths are not single tragedies, they forever impact the lives of all those who knew and love the victims. The survivors of this ongoing epidemic don’t want to hear about thoughts and prayers; they are tired of the hand-wringing and moments of silence. They want and have a right to expect Congress to take action. I urge my colleagues in both the House and Senate, and on both sides of the aisle, to take the most simple and most effective action by enforcing existing laws for background checks and providing the necessary resources for that enforcement.”
12.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence has passed an amendment requiring the U.S. Secretary of Education to track the educational progress of foster youth in America, a key measure that will protect hundreds of thousands of foster care students across America. The congresswoman’s amendment was introduced as part of the Student Success Act, which reauthorizes the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), commonly known as No Child Left Behind. ESEA was previously reauthorized in 2002. Though there are provisions within the ESEA that Rep. Lawrence opposes, and will continue to work to address, her amendment is a positive step forward in ensuring that our foster youth are included in the tracking of all students’ educational progress. “One of my core areas of concern and commitment is the continuing fight for the benefit of American public school children, particularly those who come from less affluent communities,” Rep. Lawrence said. “That is why I was so proud -- as a parent, as a grandparent, and as a former school board member -- to see my amendment included in the ESEA Reauthorization, which has been signed into law by President Obama.” As a Democrat, Rep. Lawrence’s amendment was one of only a handful offered by the minority party that achieved support from the Republican-led chamber. The amendment requires the U.S. Secretary of Education to reject any state plan that fails to provide separate academic assessment reporting of foster care children. In 2010, there were 408,425 children placed in foster care in America, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Children’s Bureau. The amendment will also benefit organizations dedicated to ensuring foster children receive the care and attention they deserve, said Lilla Weinberger, Executive Director of the National Foster Youth Institute. "Thanks to Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence for ensuring that every state will be tracking the educational progress of its foster youth. These are our children, and we must make sure that they have every chance to succeed,” Weinberger said. Rep. Lawrence’s amendment to the ESEA was the first piece of legislation that she introduced as a freshman member of the 114th Congress and it is the third amendment she has passed this year. “Foster care school-aged children deserve the same access to a quality education as everyone else. Unfortunately, and through no fault of their own, they often struggle to keep up in their studies due to a lack of a traditional home environment,” Rep. Lawrence added. “Under my amendment, foster care children will benefit from a watchful eye placed on the educational institution that serves them and we in the federal government will do whatever we can to ensure our education system does not fail them.”
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Rep. Brenda Lawrence voted with the majority of her colleagues in the House to adopt, by a vote of 316 to 113, the FY 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. This measure funds the government for FY 2016. “Today I cast my vote to avert a disastrous Republican government shutdown and to make vital investments in the future of America’s working families,” Congresswoman Lawrence said. “The bill implements the Bipartisan Budget Agreement adopted by Congress in October. Though it is far from perfect it is a true bipartisan compromise. It is not the bill I would have written, but it is a victory for working families over the Republican Congress’s special interest priorities.” “My passion for protecting the core priorities of hard-working Americans – such as Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid; community improvement programs, such as blight removal; renewable energy; education; research and development; and infrastructure – have been preserved and strengthened in this Omnibus package. Democrats won enormous improvements over the destructive FY 2016 appropriations bills Republicans wrote earlier this year. “For most of this year, Republicans have been trying to make devastating cuts to our investments in the future of our hard-working American families – cuts that would kill jobs and weaken our economic growth. For example, the House GOP bill would have slashed education initiatives by $2.5 billion below 2015 and cut HHS funding below the 2015 level. Instead, we have made strong investments in areas that will create jobs and grow the economy.” “I am deeply disappointed that Republicans insisted on lifting the oil export ban in this vital legislation to keep government open,” Rep. Lawrence added. “However, I am proud to say that Democrats were able to secure sweeping victories for America’s working families throughout the Omnibus. In addition to purging the bill of scores of Republicans’ poison pill policy riders, Democrats extended wind and solar tax credits that will eliminate around ten times more carbon pollution than the exports of oil will add.” The bill’s investments in priorities include the following: Renewable Energy: Provides a major boost to renewable energy by extending the wind Production Tax Credit for five years (through 2019), and extending the solar Investment Tax Credit for five years (through 2021), while phasing both credits down somewhat over time. Extending the solar tax credit is estimated to create 61,000 jobs in 2017 alone. It is also estimated that the wind industry will grow to over 100,000 jobs over four years with the renewed wind tax credit. Energy Efficiency and Clean Energy R&D: Provides an 8 percent increase over 2015 for R&D activities in the pursuit of new clean energy and energy efficiency technologies. Overall Education: The bill restores the $2.5 billion cut in education that the GOP had proposed and also makes critical additional investments of $1.4 billion above 2015, in such areas as Title I that serves 24 million at-risk students. Early Learning: Investing in Head Start produces results – and this bill invests nearly $400 million more than the House GOP bill and nearly $600 million more than 2015 in this vital initiative. The bill also provides $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, assisting 18 states across the country. Medical Research: Medical research at NIH has been underfunded for the last several years. This bill provides $900 million more than the House GOP bill and $2 billion more than 2015 for this life-saving research. Infrastructure: The popular TIGER grants are being used across the country to repair infrastructure and contribute to economic growth. The House GOP bill had slashed TIGER grants by 80 percent, killing jobs, but this bill restores the funding to the 2015 level of $500 million. Law Enforcement: The bill provides $187 million for COPS hiring grants, $7 million above the 2015 level and $187 million above the House GOP bill, which had eliminated the hiring grants. The bill also provides $80 million for the Community Policing Initiative, including $22.5 million for body-worn cameras and $15 million for Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation grants. The measure also does not include numerous GOP ideological riders that would have had damaging impacts on America’s women, consumers, workers, and children. The damaging GOP “poison pill” riders that were removed from the final bill include: GOP riders that would have limited women’s access to the full range of comprehensive health care services, including by defunding Planned Parenthood. GOP riders that would have gutted the Dodd-Frank provisions that hold big Wall Street banks accountable. GOP riders that would have undermined the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act, jeopardizing the health of our children and working families. Finally, the Omnibus includes several other important provisions: Reauthorizes the key James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, making the Health Program permanent and reauthorizing the Victims Compensation Fund for five years; Delays the so-called “Cadillac” tax, a tax on employer-provided health plans worth over a certain threshold, for two years – from 2018 to 2020; Includes the provisions of the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, which addresses issues raised by the terrorist attacks in Paris with reforms to the program; and Reauthorizes the Land and Conservation Fund, which is one of our country’s most successful outdoor recreation and conservation programs and which Republicans allowed to expire on September 30. “By passing this bill, Congress has ended the threat of a possible government shutdown that our country has struggled with for the last several months,” Rep. Lawrence concluded. “I hope that the Republicans will now abandon their practice of creating one manufactured crisis after another and join Democrats in developing bipartisan legislation that creates jobs, strengthens the middle class and the economy, and enhances our national security. The enactment of this bill today is an important step in that direction and moving the country forward.”
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) on Thursday issued the following statement after voting against the tax extenders package. “My decision to vote no on the tax extender package was one that required careful deliberation and some difficult choices. There are provisions within the package that I support, such as the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Enhanced Child Tax Credit, delaying the implementation of the “Cadillac Tax “ for two years, and providing benefits for teachers. My decision, however, came down to the knowledge that this package increases our deficit by $622 billion. This program makes permanent tax breaks for corporations. Without this tax revenue, there will fewer funds available for critical government programs and services that benefit our most vulnerable citizens including seniors, veterans, and children. Without this tax revenue, we cannot make the investments needed to create jobs, grow our economy, and strengthen our national security. Detroit and Michigan are poised to become the greatest comeback story of all time. Without federal investment in critical sectors such as education and infrastructure, that comeback is severely threatened. Additionally, I am strongly opposed to the inclusion of international tax provisions in this permanent package. This bill makes the Active Financing Exception permanent, increasing the deficit by $78 billion over 10 years, and extends the Controlled Foreign Corporation Look-Through Rule for five years, which increases the deficit by $8 billion over 10 years. These two provisions alone will drastically deprive American’s of its corporate tax base and will force small businesses and individuals to make up for that lost revenue. Finally, this tax extenders package completely undermines the chance of enacting responsible, comprehensive tax reform. This $622 billion package, that is unpaid for, will rob our communities and schools of social programs and require the American worker to bear the tax burden of international corporations and big business.”
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today joined U.S. David N. Cicilline (D-RI) and other gun violence prevention advocates to introduce the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015 and prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of new military-style weapons and high-capacity magazines. “Mass shootings have increased four times since the 1970s, with more than half of all mass shooters using assault weapons. That is why we must work to end this epidemic driven primarily by individuals armed with weapons designed for combat zones and that have become the weapon of choice for domestic terrorists,” said Rep. Lawrence. “I’m proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015. This bill will save lives and reduce the toll of gun violence in our country.” The Assault Weapons Ban of 2015 will prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; And 157 specifically-named and listed firearms. The bill also sets new standards to prevent “default proceeds” – the standard that allows firearms dealers to complete a sale if a buyer’s background check is not completed within three days. Under the proposed law, the background check period will be extended to 14 days for the sale or transfer of an existing assault weapon. If it is determined that a gun was sold to a prohibited individual, the FBI will be required to notify federal, state, and local law enforcement so the weapon can be retrieved as quickly as possible and the buyer can be held accountable for violating federal law. “More than half of all mass shooters who killed four or more people used an assault weapon. That’s because the sole purpose of an assault weapon is to inflict as much damage as possible in as short an amount of time as possible,” added Rep. Cicilline. “This bill is an important first step that will restore some sanity to the way we treat guns in the United States.”
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following joint statement on H.R. 158, the “Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act,” which would, among other things, prevent dual nationals of Iraq and Syria, or individuals who have traveled to these countries, from participating in the Visa Waiver Program. “The first responsibility of government is to keep the American people safe. The American people are rightfully concerned about the threat of terrorism following the attacks in Beirut, Paris and San Bernardino. Recently, Congress and the Administration have been examining changes to the Visa Waiver Program to ensure that there are not any vulnerabilities that could put the American people at risk. “There are many provisions of H.R. 158 that we support. Specifically, requiring all travelers under the Visa Waiver Program to have an unexpired, fraud-resistant electronic passport is an important security measure to take. We also support requiring the Secretary of Homeland Security to study further ways to incorporate anti-fraud and deception technology into the Visa Waiver Program. Both of these steps will help improve our security here at home. “However, we voted against the H.R. 158 today because we are concerned that the provisions in the legislation restricting the use of the visa waiver program to individuals who have travelled to Syria or Iraq or are dual nationals of these or other covered nations are discriminatory. These more controversial provisions have never been the subject of any committee hearing or markup and deserved more review and vetting before being considered on the House Floor. “We are also concerned that these provisions contain no exceptions for journalists, researchers, human rights investigators or other professionals. There is also an issue as to whether the new requirement will result in our partner nations placing new limits on travel by U.S. citizens to their own countries. “It is because of these concerns that numerous civil rights and civil liberties groups have expressed serious concerns or outright opposition to the overall legislation, including the ACLU, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, the NAACP, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the Council on American-Islamic Relations, the Arab-American Civil Rights League, Human Rights Watch, and the League of United Latin American Citizens, among others. “We hope that these provisions will face further review and consideration before being taken up by the Senate or included in any year-end legislation.”
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) on Tuesday held a hearing as the ranking Democratic member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Interior Subcommittee to discuss the impact of invasive species in Michigan and throughout the United States and to review the progress of the National Invasive Species Council (NISC). During the hearing, Rep. Lawrence received a commitment from Council Executive Director Jamie Reaser that the NISC will have an updated plan ready for Congressional review this spring to better address the impact of non-native plants and animals, such as Asian carp and zebra mussels. “Zebra mussels alone have caused Michigan more than $1 billion in damage by clogging pipes and filtration equipment of wastewater treatment plants. The mussels also pose economic threats to recreational and commercial fishing, activities that pump $4 billion to $7 billion into the economy every year,” Rep Lawrence said. “Additionally, the Great Lakes are facing threat from Asian carp which can devastate recreational fishing if not controlled. Recent reports show that these invasive fish have already caused significant ecological problems in the Ohio and Mississippi River basins.” Experts at the hearing testified that invasive species cause an estimated $1.4 trillion worth of damage to the global economy every year and $120 billion to the U.S. economy each year. Among those who testified at the invitation of Rep. Lawrence was Dr. Alan Steinman, director and professor at the Robert B. Amis Water Resources Institute at Grand Valley State University. “I want to thank Mr. Steinman, Ms. Reaser, and everyone who participated in Tuesday’s hearing to address this economic and environmental threat,” Rep. Lawrence. “It is clear that much more can and should be done, and I look forward to working with the Council in the coming year on improving our efforts to address this serious issue.”
12.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) on Tuesday released the following statement regarding the passing of Detroit activist Ron Scott, who died on November 29th, 2015. “Ron Scott was a fiery orator who shed light on the often ignored issues of racial inequality and, specifically, police brutality. I can personally recall times when I spoke to him when he was very angry. However, that anger came from his passion and he used that anger to fuel his fight to make his community, and the world, a better place. No one can deny the impact he had on Detroit, on Michigan, and on the country. It didn’t surprise me, or anyone else who knew Ron, to read in the Free Press that he continued with his work and his fight up to the very end of his life at Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak. To the Scott Family, I offer my deepest condolences and my hope that Ron’s powerful and enduring legacy provides at least some small comfort during this most difficult time.”
11.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) on Wednesday released the following statement regarding today’s release of video evidence in the fatal shooting of 17-year-old Laquan McDonald by a Chicago Police Officer. “The October 20, 2014 shooting death of 17-year-old Laquan McDonald by Chicago Police officers is yet another stark and tragic reminder of the serious challenges facing our communities and law enforcement agencies. Today’s release of video footage of the shooting, evidence that was used to sustain a charge of murder against the officer who shot and killed Laquan, are disturbing and the case is one that demands full and thorough investigation and prosecution. But we must not stop there. We must cultivate better community policing policies focused on rebuilding trust between residents and law enforcement. We need greater cultural and gender diversity in our law enforcement agencies and a greater emphasis on community building and collaboration. We must end the practice of racial profiling and the overuse of lethal force. We must reaffirm for our authorities that when we allow law-abiding citizens to be treated differently based on their race, ethnicity, religion, or national origin, we are guilty of violating the U.S. Constitution. As a former Mayor, I know how valuable our law enforcement agencies are to building safe and happy communities. I also know that we must be steadfast in the administration of police discipline when it is warranted. It is critical that we act now to make our communities safer for everyone. I have also seen first-hand the transformative effect of community-informed and community-oriented policing. I believe that we can harness that power and achieve amazing things if we are all willing to commit ourselves to taking the difficult but necessary steps to rebuild that lost trust and work toward a better future together.”
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) on Wednesday introduced H.R. 4068, The Promote Startups Act of 2015, which would permanently increase the limitations on deductions for startup and organizational expenditures that entrepreneurs face. The Act seeks to raise the current tax deduction limit for startup expenses from $5,000 to $15,000 and raise the deduction limit for organizational expenses from $5,000 to $10,000. “My bill sends a message to entrepreneurs across America that the cost of starting a new business must not get in the way of the ambition and innovation that drives entrepreneurs to create jobs and boost our economy,” Rep. Lawrence said. Rep. Lawrence was joined by the bill’s original co-sponsors, the Ranking Democrat of the House Small Business Committee Rep. Nydia Velazquez (NY-7), Rep. Yvette Clarke (NY-9), and Rep. Donald Payne, Jr. (NJ-10). “Small businesses are the cornerstone of our economy,” Rep. Velázquez said. “This legislation will lower barriers for entrepreneurs looking to launch new ventures, creating greater economic opportunity in our communities. I applaud Congresswoman Lawrence for authoring this bill and am proud to support her efforts.” According to the Small Business Administration (SBA), small businesses continue to add more net new jobs than large businesses nationwide. Through the first three quarters of 2014, small businesses added 1.4 million net new jobs to the American economy. "Entrepreneurship offers the opportunity for families to enter hte middle class and build wealth. By increasing tax deductions for small business owners, the Promote Startups Act of 2015 has the potential to increase the number of people who start small businesses and the percentage of small businesses that succeed," Rep. Clarke said. "As a member of the Committee on Small Business, I will continue my work in support of entrepreneurs in Brooklyn and across the United States." In addition to the significant findings reported by the SBA, the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation’s annual report -- which tracks entrepreneurship across the U.S. -- revealed that startup activity rose in 2015, reversing a five-year downward trend. Furthermore, the report showed that startup activity between 2014 and 2015 represented the largest year-over-year increase over the past two decades. “Reducing the costs associated with starting a business is critical to job creation and economic prosperity,” said Rep. Payne, Jr. “With this legislation, entrepreneurs will be able to innovate, hire American workers, and grow our economy for years to come.” H.R. 4068 has also received the endorsement of the Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce PAC. Ken. L. Harris, President and CEO of the Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce, Inc. said the bill will undoubtedly have a positive impact on minority-owned businesses in Michigan and across the nation. "The Michigan Black Chamber PAC believes that this type of progressive policy, which supports small and medium-sized businesses, is essential to the long-term economic stability of urban communities where the majority of Black and minority businesses operate,” Mr. Harris said. Rep. Lawrence added that the bill is one important step toward increasing federal support for entrepreneurs and American businesses, but that more needs to be done to promote this important segment of the American economy. “Congress must come together to support America’s entrepreneurial trailblazers and foster an environment conducive to entrepreneurship so that the next generation of business leaders are motivated to put great ideas into action and, in the process, become pioneers of business innovation and job creation while contributing to our economy,” Rep. Lawrence said.
11.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) this week introduced HR 3976 to link available pro bono legal assistance to junior enlisted personnel, and their dependents, in connection with personal, civil legal affairs in honor of the estimated 34,141 veterans who live in the 14th District, and of all U.S. veterans living and serving worldwide. “Members of our Armed Forces deserve to be protected legally in the same way that they protect the United States militarily. For many junior enlisted personnel, who earn an average base salary of $16,495 for a newly enlisted member, civil legal matters can wreak havoc on their financial security, putting the military member and their family at risk,” Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence said. “My legislation allows military members seeking legal assistance to be referred to pro bono attorneys and will ensure that all military members ranked E1-E5 are aware of the legal services available to them.” Rep. Lawrence’s legislation, which was introduced in time with Veterans’ Day 2015, would help connect eligible military personnel with organizations, such as the ABA Military Pro Bono Project, that can accept case referrals from military attorneys on behalf of junior-enlisted, active-duty military personnel and their families with civil legal problems. The Project then places these cases with attorneys who provide pro bono services when legal assistance is needed. The Project is also the platform for Operation Stand-By, through which military attorneys may seek attorney-to-attorney guidance. “It is completely unacceptable that the brave men and women who defend our freedoms are unable to defend themselves in civil legal battles due to the high cost of legal services. By developing a uniform policy across all military branches, our military members – and their dependents – have a path to avoid crippling financial burdens associated with legal fees,” Rep Lawrence said. “I believe strongly that our military members should be honored for their service and sacrifice every day and that we in the federal government can best do that by ensuring that they receive the services and support that they need and deserve.”
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today introduced a resolution on the House floor urging the enforcement of existing federal firearms laws and that all appropriate resources be allocated to ensure that the flood of unlawfully purchased firearms into our communities ends. “It is critical that Congress acts now to make our communities safer and to ensure that Americans’ Second Amendment rights are protected by enforcing existing laws and focusing on responsible gun ownership measures,” Congresswoman Lawrence said Thursday. “Americans, and gun owners, overwhelmingly support enforcement of current federal laws, including background checks to keep felons, domestic abusers, fugitives from justice, and other dangerous people from purchasing firearms.” According to the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, more than 31,000 men, women, and children die each year from gunshot wounds in the United States. Since enactment of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act on February 28, 1994, background checks have stopped more than 2.1 million gun sales to prohibited individuals. Despite the successes of the Brady Act, unlawfully purchased firearms are traced to approximately 400,000 gun crimes each year and an estimated 30,000 guns that are “lost” from firearms dealer’s inventories. The estimated number of lost firearms is based on reported losses and government agency spot checks of U.S. firearms dealers. Two recent surveys, conducted by Johns Hopkins and the Pew Research Center, show more than 80 percent of gun owners favor universal background checks. “The wide ranging impact of gun violence is real and the consequences are far too great to ignore” Rep. Lawrence added. “While there are numerous, common sense solutions to stemming gun violence, it is clear that one of the steps we must take is to rigorously enforce the laws that are already in place. My resolution would ensure that occurs, in accordance with the wishes of the vast majority of Americans.”
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) on Wednesday released the following statement regarding the results of the Nov. 3, 2015 elections. “I would like to thank each and every one of my constituents in the 14th Congressional District who cast their vote in the November 3rd elections. The 14th District is one of the richest congressional districts in the nation thanks to the diversity of cultures, ethnicities, religions and ages that call this region home. By engaging in your civic duty and making your voice heard through your vote, you are practicing democracy in its purest form, which promotes all of our constitutional rights and further embraces the diversity that makes the 14th District great.” “I would also like to congratulate all of the candidates who participated in the local elections. The courage and dedication required to run for public office -- and the desire to serve our communities and our country -- is to be commended. That is why I want to congratulate Ken Siver, the new Mayor of Southfield, and his opponent Sylvia Jordan. Southfield was fortunate to have two candidates of such high caliber to choose from and your races demonstrated your commitment to democracy and serving our communities.” “Southfield was not the only community to hold elections in the 14th District. Other municipalities, such as Keego Harbor, Oak Park, Orchard Lake, Lathrup Village, Hamtramck, Harper Woods, Farmington Hills, Grosse Pointe, Grosse Pointe Farms, Grosse Pointe Park, Grosse Pointe Woods, and the Village of Gross Pointe Shores, held elections as well. To all the candidates, I offer my heartfelt congratulations.” “Finally, I encourage everyone involved in yesterday’s elections to commit themselves to moving forward and working together to best serve our communities, our state, and our nation. As elected officials and candidates, our primary focus and concern must always be the communities that we represent. That is why we must now pull together, in the spirit of cooperation and good will, in order to address the needs of our deserving constituents and fellow citizens.”
10.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – [WASHINGTON, D.C.] – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence on Wednesday voted with 265 other Democratic and Republican Members of Congress to pass H.R. 1314, a bipartisan budget agreement that moves America forward in the effort to create more jobs, protect seniors, affirm the full faith and credit of the United States, and invest in our future. “I am proud to join in this bipartisan effort to find a path forward for hard-working Americans and their families. This bipartisan budget agreement shows progress on some of the most significant challenges facing the American people. This includes the need to ensure the solvency of Social Security and averting what would have been a crippling 52 percent premium hike for Medicare Part B recipients, which is crucial for protecting the health and welfare of American families and seniors” Rep. Lawrence said. “As with any bipartisan agreement, there is a give and take required from both sides of the aisle. I look forward to continuing to work with my fellow Members of Congress on many of these issues, including further strengthening of Americans’ retirement security and increasing funding for important programs and services related to health care, veterans, education, the workforce and manufacturing, energy and the environment, and American families and individuals.” The bipartisan budget agreement passed Wednesday will allow investments in America’s future after years of the damaging sequester – securing equal funding increases in defense and domestic initiatives over the next two years, and allowing for investments in areas such as education and research and development. “This bill eliminates the threat of a first-ever U.S. default and makes clear that the full faith and credit of the United States is non-negotiable and unbreakable with a clean debt limit suspension,” Rep. Lawrence said. “This bipartisan budget agreement also provides greater economic certainty to businesses and families, and it is estimated that it will create an additional 340,000 jobs in 2016 – along with increased economic growth. I am proud that we were able to come together and craft an agreement that focuses on the needs of all Americans and I look forward to making further strides in many of these areas in future agreements.”
10.28.2015	TODAY, October 28, 1 to 3 p.m. Washington, DC – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) will join House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and other House Democrats for the third “Make It In America: What’s Next?” hearing today, October 28, from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. In 2010, House Democrats launched the Make It In America plan to spur the creation of high-wage, private-sector jobs here in our country so that more workers and their families can secure a place in our middle class. Since then, sixteen Make It In America bills have been signed into law. However, five years after Make It In America first launched, our economy has significantly changed, and we are facing a different economic landscape. This series of hearings provides an opportunity for Members to explore new ideas and solicit feedback as we work to update the Make It In America plan for 2015 and beyond. This will be the second “Member Day” hearing featuring House Democrats testifying about ways we can update the Make It In America jobs plan to ensure that it reflects the challenges and opportunities of today’s economy. Rep. Lawrence will explore what American families and businesses need in 2015 to Make It In America by appearing on the 2:30-2:45 p.m. panel and discussing the need to support skilled trades. Click here to learn more about the previous hearings. Please tune in by clicking here for a livestream of the hearing. WHAT: “Make It In America: What’s Next?” Member Day Hearing WHO: Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05), House Democrats. WHEN: TODAY, October 28, 1-3 p.m. WHERE: Longworth House Office Building, House Administration Committee Room, Room 1310, Washington, D.C. MEDIA RSVP: Tara Vales at Tara.Vales@mail.house.gov ###
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following statement Tuesday regarding the announcement of an agreement on the FY2016 budget. “Last night’s unveiling of the bipartisan budget agreement marked an important step toward moving beyond some bitter bipartisan issues that have left Congress, and much of American, paralyzed. I must make clear, however, that for me to cast a vote in support of any budget agreement it must prioritize funding for programs and services that hard-working Americans and their families need and deserve. These priorities must include protecting benefits and programs for our seniors, disabled Americans, and veterans, including Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. These priorities must also include guarding against budget riders that threaten environmental and consumer protections, the constitutional and reproductive rights of women, and the rights of all hard-working Americans to make their voices heard in the workplace.” I want my constituents in Michigan’s 14th District to know with absolute certainty that I will carefully consider all of their needs as part of my review process and that I remain committed to passing a budget agreement that benefits all Americans.”
10.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) joined Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters and Reps. Sandy Levin and Debbie Dingell in a letter sent Friday calling on the IRS to explore all available options before moving more than 90 jobs from the Detroit Computing Center to Memphis, Tenn. In the letter, the delegation expressed its concerns about the IRS’ plan to shut down one floor of their Detroit Computing Center and to move jobs associated with Correspondence Services out of state. The delegation also stressed its expectation that the IRS and U.S. General Services Administration continue to search for a new location in the Metropolitan Detroit area before moving the printing and mailing jobs across the country. The letter follows several meetings Congresswoman Lawrence has had with the IRS, the Administration, and members of the Michigan delegation. “I find it very hard to believe that there is not one location within all of Metropolitan Detroit that meets the needs of the IRS, the employees, and the equipment,” Congresswoman Lawrence said. “The fact that the IRS says it will offer transfers for these employees to Memphis – which is approximately 750 miles away from their homes, family, and children’s schools – provides little comfort as it is unlikely most of these employees can afford such a drastic relocation.” In the letter, the delegation questioned the claims of financial savings from the move, noting the drastic economic toll that such a move will have on Detroit and Michigan. “This is a major setback at a time when we are working so hard at the local, state, and federal level to bolster the economy. These jobs are exactly the kind of jobs that we need to promote and increase; jobs that offer employees career growth opportunities and an ability to support their families,” Rep. Lawrence said. “The Administration has been so supportive of Detroit, and all of Michigan, in the fight to rebuild this region into one of America’s strongest manufacturing and financial. I will do everything I can to make sure that those efforts are not undermined and that the federal government explores every option for keeping good-paying, middle-class jobs in the region.”
10.21.2015	Contact: Tracy Manzer, Director of Communications, 202-225-5802 or tracy.manzer@mail.house.gov October 21, 2015 | News Release WASHINGTON, D.C. – With only eight legislative days left to act, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence called on her Republican colleagues in the House of Representatives to commit to protecting the full faith and credit of the United States by November 3, in order to prevent the risk of what would be the first-ever U.S. default. “Failing to meet the default deadline would shatter retirement savings and send interest rates for mortgages, student loans, credit cards, and car payments soaring. It would put hard-working Americans, veterans, seniors, the disabled, and many more at risk,” Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence said. “Even just the threat of default has serious consequences – as we saw in the summer of 2011 -- when Republicans’ toxic brinksmanship led to the first downgrade of the credit rating of the United States in history. That resulted in a drastic drop in consumer confidence and seriously hampered job creation and economic growth.” Rather than address the threat of a catastrophic default, Republican members of the House are bringing forward the “Pay China First Act.” Under this bill, bondholders from China and other foreign nations would be paid first -- should the United States default on its credit and debts – putting payments that Americans need and deserve at risk. This includes: 1.4 million active duty troops; 4.1 million disabled veterans who served their country with honor; 2.3 million veterans who receive home purchasing assistance; American small businesses that sell goods and services to the government; Doctors and hospitals that treat the 53.8 million Medicare patients around the country. The November 3 deadline is far from the only crisis that our nation is facing due to the ongoing ideological warfare that has become the focus of many in the GOP. In just 10 days, the Highway Trust Fund is set to expire. On December 11, the nation is facing another threat of a government shutdown over the constitutional rights of women to access affordable family planning and life-saving preventive health care. “The Republican Party has, for generations, claimed it is the party of fiscal responsibility. There is nothing fiscally responsible about the tactics they’ve employed over the past 10 months to push forward a political agenda that ignores the critical needs of hard-working Americans,” Rep. Lawrence said. “It’s time to stop sacrificing the financial health, and morale, of our nation for personal dogma. It’s time for us to do the job we were elected to do and to work out efficient and effective long-term solutions for preserving the full faith and credit of our nation and addressing the needs of our federal budget and funding programs.”
10.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence will host a Winter Resource Fair on October 19, 2015, to link 14th District constituents with local agencies, organizations, and companies that can assist residents in preparation for the upcoming winter season. This includes helping residents with applications for reduced utility bills, affordable housing needs, and food assistance. The goal is to address these issues now to prevent the life-threatening loss of heat and water services, nutrition, clothing, and shelter during the cold weather months. WHAT: The Winter Resource Fair hosted by Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) WHO: The Heat and Warmth Fund (THAW). United Way Transgender Michigan Detroit Police Department DTE Energy Salvation Army Ruth Ellis Center Forgotten Harvest Detroit Area Agency on Aging (DAAA) Jewish Vocational Services (JVS) Mariners Inn Elder Law of Michigan WHEN: Monday, October 19th, 10 a.m.-noon WHERE: The Samaritan Center, Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick Conference Center, 5555 Conner, Detroit, MI 48213 FOR INFORMATION: Contact the Congresswoman's Detroit or Southfield Offices at (313) 423-6183 or (248) 356-2052, respectively.
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) on Wednesday released the following statement regarding the passage of H.R. 719, which maintains government funding at its current spend rate through December 11. “Though I am relieved that the majority of Congress was able to pass H.R. 719, which will maintain funding for the federal government through Dec. 11th, I am appalled at our inability to work out a long-term budget solution and our failure to reauthorize critical bipartisan programs, such as the Ex-Im Bank and the Land and Water Conservation Fund. It seems inconceivable that any member of Congress would take the mandate that they are given when elected to office and turn it into a bully pulpit to push their own personal ideology and dogma over the wishes of the vast majority of the American public, yet that is precisely what is happening. Though I respect the many different opinions and political ideologies that contribute to our great democracy, I am outraged that a few extremists have been able to use their personal political agendas to hold the entire federal budget process hostage. Twice now, we have seen a relatively small faction of the GOP-controlled House hijack our system of government over power plays pertaining to health care issues. This most recent attack on Planned Parenthood and the effort to defund the nonprofit health care organization is nothing more than an assault on the reproductive rights of American women and their U.S. Supreme Court-affirmed right to choose. In 2013, it was a GOP-led campaign against Obamacare that led to a 16-day government shutdown that created extensive financial turmoil for millions of Americans. That included our brave military veterans, seniors and hard-working American families that rely on federal government services. Thousands of federal government employees were plunged into debt, and the cost in lost productivity to the government ran into the billions. Additionally, millions of Americans were denied access to some of our nation’s greatest treasures with the shuttering of National Parks and historic sites. Despite these dire statistics, come December, we will once again facing a federal government shutdown that would wreak incalculable harm unless we are able to put aside personal politics and come to an agreement through thoughtful compromise and courageous leadership. I implore my fellow members of Congress: Let’s live up to the mandate we were entrusted with by our constituents, let’s do what is right for the American public, let’s do our jobs and work out a long-term funding agreement. If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer, Congresswoman Lawrence’s communications director, atTracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-5802. # # #
09.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and Detroit Police Chief James Craig on Monday announced the award of two U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) grants in the amount of $1 million to fund the police department’s Body-Worn Camera (BWC) Pilot Implementation Program. The DOJ recognizes body-worn cameras as a law enforcement strategy aimed at improving public safety, reducing crime, and improving public trust between police and the citizens that they serve. As part of President Obama’s commitment to expand funding and training to law enforcement agencies through community policing initiatives, the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), part of the DOJ’s Office of Justice Programs (OJP), announced a $20 million BWC Pilot Implementation Program in May of 2015, to respond to the immediate needs of local and tribal enforcement organizations. The $1 million awarded to the Detroit Police Department is expected to cover the cost of 800 body-worn cameras for the department, which is working toward a goal of deploying up to 2,500 officers with the cameras over the next three years. “This is good news for the Detroit Police Department and the citizens they serve as the purchase of these cameras will provide added incentive for officers to follow protocol while building trust with the community and retrieving crucial data that can benefit their investigative methods,” said Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence. “This is, however, less than half of what the police department has stated it needs to fully deploy its program, which is why I am committed to pushing for further federal support on behalf of the Detroit Police Department and other law enforcement agencies within the 14th District.” A 12-month study published this month in the Journal of Quantitative Criminology showed that body-worn cameras provided substantial benefits, such as a decrease in the number of citizens’ complaints filed against the department compared with previous years. The same study found that officers who didn’t wear the cameras were twice as likely to use force in their interactions with the citizens they serve. Though there is always room to improve technology and the implementation of such programs, it’s clear that these devices have had a positive impact on law enforcement and community relations as well as policing methods. The grants will also establish DPD among the U.S. law enforcement agencies that are leading the way with this new technology. "We are grateful to the U.S. Department of Justice for awarding the Detroit Police Department two very generous grants to improve public safety in our city. Not only will our neighborhoods be made safer, but the body cameras will make Detroit a leader in the country in the deployment of this technology," Chief Craig said. If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer, Congresswoman Lawrence’s communications director, atTracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-5802. # # #
09.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and Detroit Public Television (DPTV) President and CEO Richard Homberg on Monday announced the award of a U.S. Department of Education grant to fund the first phase of DPTV’s Ready to Learn (RTL) project. Up to $100,000 will be given for the 12-month project, enabling DPTV to increase the capacity of communities to support early learning through media, provide children with resources in various environments, and support families, caregivers, and educators in their efforts to ensure children receive the educational support they need and deserve. “For generations now, Public Television has been the doorway for our children to the wider world by providing academic and ethical lessons that help nurture bright, responsible, and astute young minds,” said Rep. Lawrence. “Detroit Public Television has been an integral part of this noble tradition and, on a personal note, a major influence in the education of my own children and my granddaughter. This grant will ensure that DPTV continues to serve our local families, schools, and learning centers and to impart a sense of wonder and thirst for knowledge in future generations.” The RTL program uses the power of public television’s educational content – programs like Curious George,SuperWhy!, and Peg + Cat – to develop interactive media that improves science and literacy skills in children ages 2 through 8. These programs and other interactive educational experiences, like Pre-School U, are available for free to all Americans through PBS and online at pbskids.org. Created by Congress in the early 1990s, RTL was reauthorized by the No Child Left Behind Act in 2002 and is administered by the Department of Education. “Detroit Public Television is deeply committed to building success for children long before they enter school,” said Rich Homberg, DPTV’s President and CEO. “Pre-School U and the Ready to Learn grant will allow DPTV to deepen its relationships with critical community partners and help parents and teachers maximize the free resources PBS Kids and CPB are bringing to our viewers.” Starting later this year, the first phase of the project will include 11 public television stations, including DPTV, that have previously served as RTL partners. With combined financial support from the RTL grant and from CPB, these 11 stations will receive a total of more than $1 million to collaborate with educational partners in our schools, public libraries, science centers, health clinics, and housing agencies that serve high-need populations. If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer, Congresswoman Lawrence’s communications director, atTracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-5802.
08.31.2015	DETROIT – Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) hosted a field hearing with House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-5) today to discuss the “Make It In America” initiative. The event included a diverse coalition of stakeholders and community leaders who gathered at the Northwest Activities Center in Detroit to discuss the importance of investing in and building a 21st Century Skilled Workforce. Representatives from Michigan’s leading business, labor, and education sectors -- such as William F. Jones, CEO of FOCUS:HOPE; Rick Blocker, President of Metro Detroit AFL-CIO; Jeannine LaPrad, President & CEO of Corporation for a Skilled Workforce; and Maria Vaz, Provost of Lawrence Technological University – shared ideas about what U.S. manufacturers need to remain competitive in the global market and discussed how the success of our manufacturing industry can translate to better jobs and pay for America’s workforce. The event is among a series of field hearings that Whip Hoyer has held across America this summer to explore new ideas, solicit feedback, and work with business, labor, educators, economists, and technology pioneers to ask an important question – “Make It In America: What’s Next?” "I want to thank Rep. Lawrence for hosting a Make It In America field hearing today and discussing how we can continue to build a skilled workforce," said Whip Hoyer. "Rep. Lawrence is playing a leading role in the House by developing new ideas through her Congressional Investment in America’s Skilled Workforce Caucus. The feedback and ideas that stem from this initiative and from today's hearing will be critically important as House Democrats work to update our Make It In America jobs plan to reflect today's economic challenges and opportunities." Among the innovative solutions and ideas that Hoyer has sought is the Congressional Investment in America’s Skilled Workforce Caucus, which was launched earlier this summer by Rep. Lawrence and her caucus co-chairs, Reps. Yvette Clark (D-NY) and French Hill (R-LA). The bipartisan Caucus seeks to address the growing skills gap crisis, one of the greatest challenges facing the U.S. manufacturing industry and the American economy today. Additionally, Rep. Lawrence has introduced H. Res 286, The Supporting Investment in the Nation’s Skilled Workforce resolution, which aims to provide the children of Michigan educational options beyond four-year institutions, which frequently result in crippling debt. “Both my caucus and resolution are focused on providing hard-working Americans with the opportunity to work in an industry that allows for growth and upward mobility while also meeting the needs of businesses that are struggling to find trained and skilled workers,” Rep. Lawrence said. “We in Congress must do whatever we can to ensure that our schools are able to provide vocational training and apprenticeships for our high school students who demonstrate an aptitude and a desire for skilled trades. We must help the manufacturing industry provide training and support services to retain and promote its workforce. Finally, we must return that sense of pride that Americans once had in earning a good, honest wage through their chosen vocation.”
08.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) -- Ranking member of the Committee on Oversight and Government and Reform and Freshman Whip and Senior Whip -- released the following statement today regarding her support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. “I have invested the time to review the historic Agreement between Iran and the P5+1 nations, meeting with stakeholders who are both in support of and opposed to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). I have been thorough and exacting in my review of the Agreement and in assuring that all of my concerns have been met regarding the length of the agreement and the pre-existing anti-nuclear proliferation agreement, the length of time that it will take for Iran to access the more than $50 billion in frozen assets related to the sanctions, and what may occur if the United States of America were to vote no on the Agreement. Consideration of this issue has been the most complex and nuanced foreign policy decision I have had to make as a member of Congress. It has challenged long-held beliefs and perceptions of Iran, a nation that is among the most potentially dangerous and influential global leaders of the 21st century. It has, however, become increasingly clear to me -- and many of the world’s leading political, military, and scientific minds -- that America’s current policy to control this potential threat will no longer suffice and I support this Agreement. I came to this decision after spending this period of Congressional review attending numerous briefings and meetings with individuals and organizations. These sessions have taken place in Washington, D.C. and in Michigan’s 14thDistrict, which I proudly serve. I recently spent more than a week in Israel with 21 fellow members of Congress, including House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD). This biannual trip, which was scheduled many months in advance of the announcement of the JCPOA, included meetings with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu; Israeli President Reuven Rivlin; former Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad; the U.S. Ambassador to Israel, Dan Shapiro; and members of the Likud and Zionist Union parties and The Gaza House. I have traveled to the region before and this trip, like those in the past, reinforced my belief that we must continue to support Israel in its security efforts. The tenuous peace that exists today can change in a moment’s notice and we must never waiver in our support of one of our strongest allies. That includes continued funding and development by the U.S. and Israel of missile defense systems such as the Iron Dome. Whether meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu, or one of my constituents, it is clear that this is in an incredibly complex issue and one of grave importance to people at here at home and around the world. This agreement is our best option for ensuring that we live in a world where Iran does not have a nuclear bomb. As with any comprehensive piece of diplomacy and negotiation, there are aspects of this Agreement that are concerning. Chief among those concerns is how we will be able to enforce the requirements and how will we know if violations occur. To that end, the JCPOA includes resources for the IAEA that were not previously available. This includes more than 100 inspectors that represent the UN with daily access to Iran’s nuclear sites and surveillance by the U.S. and the EU. Also, continuous access will be available at all sites with known nuclear programs. If there is any concern that Iran is pursuing nuclear programs at any other location, the Agreement requires that inspectors be given access within a maximum of 24 days. What was of profound importance to me were the enforcement elements of the Agreement, including the ability to reinstate US sanctions without fear of veto powers from China or Russia. This is key because the United States engaged in sanctions against Iran for many years with little impact. It was revealed during the negotiations of this Agreement that our European allies are no longer supportive of extended sanctions. Without the ability to enforce sanctions and without an Agreement we are left only with the threat of military action, which would take a devastating toll on our economy and put the lives of our service members in harm’s way. If Iran were to build a nuclear weapon, America and our allies may also opt for military intervention. Taking that path would be a difficult and costly choice. Nobody knows that cost better than those who have put their lives on the line for our country. If the day does come where I am forced to take a vote to authorize military force against Iran, I owe it to the members of our military and to the people of the 14th Congressional District of Michigan to have first exhausted every other option to stop Iran before engaging our military. The core of my belief hinges on the power of diplomacy. Diplomacy is, by its very definition, difficult as it requires us to work toward a solution with a nation that is not our ally and that has violated many previous agreements. That is why I was pleased to see President Obama’s statements regarding diplomacy being the cornerstone of our great democracy and that the pursuit of diplomatic solutions should be thoroughly exhausted before we resort to military action. I understand that there are critics of the Agreement who prefer the option of war or who believe that we can pull out of this Agreement and stand alone. However, the power of collaboration has brought Iran to the table. This negotiation has proven that the United States stands best prepared to address the threat of Iran only when we work collaboratively with other allies. I believe that the true strength of our nation is better measured by our history of reasoned debate and willingness to pursue peaceful resolutions whenever possible. Finally, I believe this Agreement, though far from perfect, is our best option for keeping America and its allies as safe as can be reasonably expected.
08.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) announced this week that two programs dedicated to the treatment of mental health and substance abuse issues within the 14th District have been awarded a combined $2 million from the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Adult Well-Being Services (AWBS) and Community Network Services, Inc. (CNS) will each receive grant funds from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to support mental health and substance abuse awareness and programs in Detroit and Wayne County. “The development and outreach of mental health and substance abuse programs is crucial to the well-being and success of many of the residents in the 14th District and the success of our community. So many problems -- from joblessness to homelessness and family trauma to incarceration -- are rooted in issues related to mental health and substance abuse. This combined $2 million grant will help further the development of two successful programs in my District and it will ultimately benefit the entire community by addressing the needs of individuals and families who struggle with the devastating impact of substance abuse and who need help identifying, treating, and managing mental illness,” Rep. Lawrence said. AWBS will receive $400,000 to support the Detroit Wayne County Prime Care Project. CNS will receive $1.6 million to help fund their PBHCI project. Dawn Rucker, President and CEO of Adult Well-Being Services, said, “Adult Well-Being Services is excited to be the recipient of the grant award from SAMHSA to provide integrated physical health with mental health and substance use disorder treatment services to the residents of Detroit and Wayne County. This new award compliments our current SAMHSA grant project to Collaborate and Prevent HIV (CAP-HIV), where we have integrated mental health and substance use disorder treatment for those diagnosed with HIV. This new opportunity will allow AWBS to greatly improve the continuity of care for our most vulnerable populations in Wayne County while serving them under one roof. The use of Trauma Informed Care and other evidence based practice modalities will be utilized to support better outcomes for persons served.” Michael K. Garrett, President of Community Network Services, Inc., said, “Community Network Services is honored to have been selected as a recipient of the PBHCI Project grant from SAMSHA. This grant will allow CNS to significantly advance the physical and mental health care integration for thousands of patients and families over the lifetime of the grant. This integration will lead to better health outcomes for all persons involved and enhance their overall quality of life." For more information about the grant process, please visit the HHS website at http://www.hhs.gov/.
08.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) released the following statement in honor of the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act and called upon her colleagues in Congress to make the restoration of this landmark piece of legislation among its first order of business upon their return to session. "The passage of the Voting Rights Act in 1965 became the foundation for ensuring that states that blatantly discriminated against African Americans, and many other people of color, meet a series of simple but important requirements to ensure all American citizens had the right to vote. As hard as it is to understand, the Supreme Court of the United States of American in 2013 threw out most of the VRA, though the court did not strike down Section 5 itself, leaving it to Congress to devise a new formula for the VRA.” “Today, on the 50th anniversary of the first passage of the VRA, I call on my colleagues in Congress to do just that and to restore the Act so that no citizen of this great nation, the world's most successful Democracy, be denied the one right that best defines what it means to be an American. The time to act is now and we must succeed so that current and future generations will have a voice and the means to shape their own destiny and realize their American dreams."
08.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) and Rep. Watson Coleman (NJ-12) have introduced H.R. 3366, The Teach Our Teachers Act, to allow teachers to qualify for both teacher loan forgiveness and public service loan forgiveness. As it currently stands, the Higher Education Act does not allow hard-working and frequently under-paid teachers to qualify for the existing loan forgiveness programs, nor does it allow for educators who teach subjects such as English, Reading Comprehension, Art, or history to qualify for such incentives. H.R. 3366 will also modify the provision in the Higher Education Act of 1965 that requires teachers to serve five consecutive school years to three consecutive school years to qualify for and receive student loan forgiveness. “Providing quality education to students of all socio-economic backgrounds is among my greatest priorities. A large part of ensuring that all of our students receive the best education is by providing the brightest minds in the nation with incentive to pursue and stay with teaching careers. This legislation will do that by providing our teachers with access to crucially needed loan forgiveness programs that allow educators to pursue their career dreams and help our youth while providing themselves and their families with financial security,” said Rep. Lawrence, who introduced the bill on July 29. The National Education Association states the average starting salary for a teacher is $36,141. Due to the cost of living, graduates in the worst shape with unmanageable debt can be found in Connecticut, Maine, Minnesota, Montana, New Hampshire, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Vermont, and Wisconsin. The starting salary for educators in Michigan is also below the national average. The result: at a time when there is a great need for qualified teachers, young people are being discouraged from entering the profession. “We must take a comprehensive approach to support American children from the time they’re born, helping them become the productive adults that our economy relies on. That hinges on a word-class education for every student ― and great teachers in every classroom. Careers in education are among the most important in our society, but unfortunately they’re among the most undervalued. Any steps we can take to encourage our best and brightest minds to teach, and ensure financial security for American teachers and their families is absolutely vital. This bill is a critical step,” said Co-Sponsor Rep. Coleman. Additionally, H.R. 3366 will allow for the loan forgiveness amount currently allotted for math and science teachers to become available to educators who teach all subjects. With the loan forgiveness amount being equal for all teachers, those who are interested in a career in education but who were not planning on teaching math or science will now have greater incentive to teach a variety of valuable subjects. “My political career began with my involvement in the PTA and my election to the Southfield Public School Board of Education, where I served as Secretary, Vice President, and President, because I understood from the very beginning that quality education is among the most critical if not the most critical need for of all communities,” Lawrence added. “This legislations shows my strong commitment to improving education in the 14th District, throughout Michigan, and nationwide.”
08.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence on Tuesday issued the following statement regarding the recovery of the body of Southfield Fire Chief Keith Rowley, who fell overboard while boating on Lake St. Clair last Friday. "Though I am deeply saddened by the news that the body of Southfield Fire Chief Keith Rowley has been found, I also am thankful that the Macomb County Sheriff’s Office Dive Team were so diligent in their efforts and have provided Keith’s family and friends, including his Fire Department family and City of Southfield family, with this sense of closure. As I noted earlier, I had the distinct honor of confirming the appointment of Keith as Chief of the Southfield City Fire Department in 2012. We worked many years together in Southfield, where he grew up and where I raised my family and spent nearly 15 years as mayor, and I could not have asked for a more steadfast, diligent, and dedicated fire chief. Throughout his career, which spanned more than 35 years, Keith was known as a natural leader and as someone who held the responsibility of serving the public in high regard. He organized and managed numerous major programs and projects, such as expanding the Technical Rescue program and assisting in set up of the Urban Search and Rescue Team. Under his leadership, fire department staff teamed with City Administration and the Department of Homeland Security to reconfigure the SAFER grant to better meet the needs of the City of Southfield. As a result, the City and the Fire Department are now better positioned to maintain the high standards of commitment and care for the community. Chief Rowley, in conjunction with other department staff, also developed and implemented many new state-of-the-art training and firefighting techniques such as the use of Thermal Imaging technology, school bus emergency response, high angle rescue, confined space rescue, trench rescue, and vehicle extrication. As his family, friends, and fire department grieve the loss of this amazing man, so does the city of Southfield. It is through this shared sense of family that that we will shoulder the burden of sadness and look to find a sense of peace despite this terrible tragedy. Most importantly, we will never forget what Keith did for everyone he knew, for his family, for his fire department, and for the City of Southfield. His memory and his example as one of our finest citizens will live on in our hearts and minds forever." If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802. Brenda L. Lawrence was elected to Congress in November 2014. She served as Southfield mayor between 2002 and 2015. A Senior Whip, Congresswoman Lawrence represents 18 communities throughout Greater Detroit, including portions of Detroit as well as segments of Oakland and Wayne counties.
08.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence on Sunday issued the following statement regarding the search for Southfield Fire Chief Keith Rowley, who went missing in Lake St. Clair on Friday. Authorities have resumed their search this morning after rough weather and dangerous conditions required them to temporarily halt the recovery operation Sunday evening. "My thoughts, prayers, and heart are with the family of Keith Rowley, a man I knew well and who I respected for his lifetime of service to his community. We both loved Southfield, the city in which he grew up and where I raised my family and spent nearly 15 years as mayor. I had the honor of approving the confirmation of Keith as Chief of the Southfield Fire Department during my tenure as mayor, and I say I had the honor because it truly was an honor to know someone who had such amazing strength of character and who held the job of serving the public in such high esteem. Keith was a great fire chief, a wonderful colleague, a good friend, and a dedicated family man. Though authorities have said that the current search operation is a recovery operation, I know that I and Keith's family and friends, all continue to hold out hope that he may still be found alive. I also know that if he is gone, we will hold him in our memories and our hearts forever." If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802. Brenda L. Lawrence was elected to Congress in November 2014. She served as Southfield mayor between 2002 and 2015. A Senior Whip, Congresswoman Lawrence represents 18 communities throughout Greater Detroit, including portions of Detroit as well as segments of Oakland and Wayne counties.
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence on Thursday announced the EPA’s request for applications soliciting proposals for Great Lakes Restoration initiative grants to fund new projects to restore and protect the Great Lakes. Up to $13.9 million will be available during the 2015 funding cycle for grants to state, tribal, interstate and local governmental agencies, institutions of higher learning, and other nonprofit organizations. Applications are due Sept. 28. “This is a great opportunity to increase our efforts to protect and restore our Great Lakes, the largest fresh surface water system in the world. Great Lakes Restoration Initiative resources have funded more than 2,500 projects to improve our water quality and strengthen our local job sector, to protect and restore our native habitat and species, to prevent and control invasive species in our waterways, and to address other environmental problems in the Great Lakes basin,” Rep. Lawrence said. “I am excited to share the EPA’s wonderful news about this amazing opportunity. As the Representatives for the 14th Congressional District, I am passionate about the health and sustainability of the Detroit River, our lakes and all of our waterways that feed into communities within my District, such as Detroit and the Grosse Pointes.” A webinar explaining the grant application process will be held at 10 a.m. Central time on Thursday, Aug. 13. Requests for applications and information about applying for Great Lakes Restoration Initiative grants is available at http://www2.epa.gov/great-lakes-funding/great-lakes-restoration-initiative-2015-request-applications. "This round of Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding will be used to target invasive species and to reduce runoff in urban and agricultural watersheds," said EPA Region 5 Administrator/Great Lakes National Program Manager Susan Hedman. "The work funded by these grants will help to restore and protect waters that are essential to the health and jobs of millions of Americans." For more information about the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative visitwww.glri.us. If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802.
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) on Thursday introduced H.R. 3184, The Youth Parity Act of 2015, to provide American families with more flexibility in paying for health care costs. “So many young Americans who are transitioning from their parents’ households into financial independence, including those just starting their working careers and college students, are struggling with massive debt due to unexpected health issues and the associated medical costs. The Youth Parity Act of 2015 is straightforward in its premise and goal, which is to extend the age limit for all dependents to remain covered by HSAs until the age of 26. The benefits of this legislation, however, are profound for our nation’s youth and their families,” Congresswoman Lawrence said. Five years ago, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) was signed into law, providing all Americans with a right to obtain health care. Among its many provisions, the ACA allowed for dependents to be covered by their parents until the age of 26. Currently, families with dependents who accrue medical expenses can only use resources from a health savings account (HSA) to pay for medical bills until age 18. The Youth Parity Act of 2015 would bring our nation’s laws regarding HSAs on par with the ACA by allowing dependents to be covered by their family’s HSA until they reach the age of 26. HSAs are tax-advantaged medical savings accounts available to all taxpayers in the United States who are enrolled in a high-deductible health plan (HDHP). Any funds that individuals place in this account are not subject to federal income taxes and provide individuals enrolled in HDHPs with a degree of financial freedom for future medical expenses. By expanding the coverage for individuals until the age of 26, more Americans will be covered for future unexpected medical expenses. “Congress has vowed to empower and strengthen the middle class. This legislation provides for a common sense change to allow our middle class, our emerging workforce, and our youth to succeed in their pursuit of a debt-free future. This is a benefit to not only these individuals and their families, but the overall health of the American economy,” the Congresswoman said.
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – “I am looking forward to reviewing the full scope and text of the agreement that was reached with Iran today. I have been very clear in my previous comments and statements that I am extremely sensitive to the concerns that many of my constituents have shared with me regarding any nuclear agreement with Iran. There must be no ambiguity regarding the United States’ readiness to enforce all options should Iran pursue development of a nuclear weapon and this agreement must deny Iran any and all pathways to a nuclear weapon while providing clear guidelines and enforcement mechanisms for removing any threat of such a weapon against the U.S., Israel, and our European and Gulf allies. Though some of my colleagues in Congress have rushed to judgment on this agreement, either in criticism or praise, I will reserve further comment until I have had time to review this agreement in its entirety and I have been able to discuss the profound implications of such an agreement with key stakeholders and concerned constituents in my District. I am also scheduled to travel to the region within a few weeks. I would like to thank President Obama, Secretary Kerry and the countless U.S. officials who have been dedicated to this crucial task over the past two years. While Congress has a great deal of work ahead regarding the review of this agreement, we must not fail to recognize the historic achievement made today. I congratulate all those involved for their valiant efforts to stabilize the Gulf region and pave the path for peace and prosperity for the United States, for Israel, and for the world.”
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI) took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and called on her colleagues to join her in putting an end to the short-term transportation funding extensions that have left Michigan’s infrastructure in shambles. “We are less than three weeks away from the expiration of the National Highway Trust Fund and, once again, talking about another short-term extension,” Congresswoman Lawrence said. “The Michigan Infrastructure and Transportation Association estimates that Congress’ failure to come up with a long-term plan has cost Michigan tax-payers more than $350 million.” During her floor speech, the Congresswoman cited a number of viable plans that have been offered and that Congress has failed to act on, including: H.R. 1308, a cargo shipping fee that would generate $8 billion per year; H.R. 625, an overseas tax that would generate $170 billion over ten years; H.R. 680, a gas tax that would generate $210 Billion over ten years; and The GROW AMERICA Act, a combination plan that would raise $478 Billion over six years. She also highlighted Michigan’s “Getting Beyond Gridlock” plan, which would raise $410 billion over six years. “Republicans don’t want to raise taxes. Democrats don’t want to hurt middle and lower-income families,” the Congresswoman said. “But we must make the hard choices. We must take the hard votes.” If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802.
07.08.2015	Today, Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI) joined lead sponsors Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (D-NY), as well as more than 50 other Members of Congress, in supporting the introduction of the Equal Access to Abortion Coverage in Health Insurance (EACH Woman) Act. The EACH Woman Act ensures health coverage for abortion for every woman however much she earns, however she is insured, or wherever she lives. With unprecedented restrictions and bans being introduced across the country on a woman’s ability to make her own choice regarding abortion, this legislation is imperative to ensure that lack of health coverage will not stand in the way of a woman making the best decision about pregnancy for her and her family. “This is a critical issue for my District and for the city of Detroit, which in 2013 had 60 percent of its children classified as living at or below the poverty rate, according to a study by Data Driven Detroit. That same study showed the rates for teen births had dropped by nearly 10 percent, which was great news. But we all know that bans and limits to health care coverage for abortion hit these most vulnerable members of our community the hardest,” Rep. Lawrence said. “On a personal note, I would add that I have been fortunate enough never to have had to make this choice. I have never been a victim or rape or incest, I have never had to look my husband in the eye and say it’s a matter of my life or a pregnancy coming to term, I have never had to weight the costs of feeding and sheltering my children against the cost of another child and pregnancy,” Rep Lawrence added. “I know that whatever the reason for a woman’s choice in this matter, it is her reason and it is her choice. None of us can know what she is going through. No political leader has the right to stand in judgment, or to try and ban or control her choices.” “As I told the dozens of young women, and men, who gathered in the shadow of the United States Capitol this morning in support of the EACH Woman Act, feminist leader Margaret Sanger got it right when she said, ‘NO woman can call herself free who does not control her body.’ As a woman, as a member of Congress, and as a proud America I will continue to fight so that all women, regardless of their zip code or their health insurance coverage, have equal access to reproductive health care.” The EACH Woman Act makes a long-needed change for women and their families, creating two important standards for reproductive health: First, it respects that every woman should be able to make her own decisions about pregnancy. If a woman gets her care or insurance through the federal government, she will be covered for all pregnancy-related care, including abortion. Second, it prohibits political interference with decisions of private health insurance companies to offer coverage for abortion care. Federal, state and local legislators will not be able to interfere with the private insurance market to prevent insurance companies from providing abortion coverage. Notably, this legislation would lift the restriction on abortion coverage for women enrolled in Medicaid, commonly called the Hyde Amendment. The Hyde Amendment creates an often insurmountable barrier to abortion for women across the country already struggling to get affordable health care, and disproportionately affects those who are low-income, people of color, young, immigrants, or who live in rural communities. If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802.
07.01.2015	DETROIT – Rep. Lawrence (MI-14) hosted a joint press conference in Detroit Wednesday morning with Reps. Levin (MI-09), and Dingell (MI-12) and several business leaders from throughout Michigan to demand that House Republicans call an immediate vote to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank charter before irreparable harm is done to hundreds of Michigan companies and hundreds of thousands of hard-working Americans. “In 2012, the Bank was reauthorized with overwhelming bipartisan support due to its critical role in ensuring American businesses and manufacturers remain globally competitive. Ex-Im has operated for more than two decades with a default rate of less than 1 percent, which is better than their private banking sector counterparts, and while contributing nearly $7 billion to the U.S. Treasury for deficit reduction. It is the only option our Michigan companies have when going up against foreign competitors who are heavily subsidized by their governments, many of which have multiple Export-Import Banks.” Rep. Lawrence said. “If our Republican colleagues are serious about reducing the deficit, creating more jobs, and remaining globally competitive, we must immediately call a vote to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank.” Rep. Lawrence was joined by Reps. Levin and Dingell and Michigan business leaders, including Sandy Baruah, President and CEO, Detroit Regional Chamber; Fay Beydoun, Executive Director, Arab American Chamber of Commerce, and COO, Tejara Global Business Development Center; Glen Carlson III, President, Acme Manufacturing; John Couch, Vice President, Futuramic Tool & Engineering; Bob Joly, President, Hancock Enterprises; and Luke Pinkerton, President and Chief Technology Officer, Polytorx/Helix LLC. Despite months of warnings from the nation’s business and lending leaders, Republican congressional members refused to deal with the matter before the June 25th recess, and before the Bank’s charter expired on June 30th. House Republicans have said there is no urgency in holding a reauthorization vote because the Bank’s existing loan programs will continue for the next 27 years. Without reauthorization, however, the Bank has made clear that it cannot continue with its self-sufficient loans and programs, shifting the burden of the cost of those loans to American tax-payers. From 2007 to 2014, the Export-Import Bank has created or sustained 1.5 million private sector jobs – including more than 58,000 jobs in Michigan – at no cost to taxpayers. From 2007 to 2014, the Export-Import Bank supported more than $9 billion in exports from 190 Michigan companies. “The State of Michigan and the entire country is dependent upon our representatives in Congress to renew Ex-Im’s mandate. As an institution that has historically held remarkable bipartisan support, there is no reason to end Ex-Im now. While Ex-Im’s support of large U.S. corporations is highly publicized, it is impossible to ignore the fact that 90 percent of Ex-Im’s transactions directly impact small businesses’ capacity to export their goods and services, and to further create jobs. If our Congress is truly committed to advancing the interests of those they represent, there is no other option than to extend Ex-Im’s mandate immediately,” said Fay Beydoun, Executive Director of the American Arab Chamber of Commerce and COO of Tejara Global Business Development Center.
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – “I join the nation today as we gather in spirit with Charleston, South Carolina to honor the memory of State Sen. Clementa Pinckney and the eight other innocent souls violently taken last week by a deranged and hate-filled young man who they had greeted with love and acceptance in the sanctuary of their church. The photos of these victims that greeted us nearly every morning in our newspapers and on our TV screens have raised the memories and the ghosts of our nation’s violent and racist history. Those memories include four little girls who were so brutally murdered in 1963 when their church in Birmingham, Alabama was bombed and Mother Emanuel itself, which was founded by African Americans who fought slavery and which was burned to the ground because of that fight. Today, the man responsible for the slayings of those nine people in Charleston is facing not only nine counts of murder but also potential federal hate crime charges. This tragedy, however, encompasses far more than the pursuit of criminal justice. It has ignited a necessary and long-overdue dialogue about the improper display of the Confederate flag at state and federal sites. Those who defend the flag use terms like ‘state’s rights’ and ‘heritage’ to distract from the real issues. The fact remains that those states were wrong to imprison and enslave human beings. The heritage of hate and oppression represented by that flag should be remembered, but it should never have a place of honor in our public spaces. This tragedy also highlights the ongoing plague of gun violence in our nation. Last weekend, in my hometown of Detroit, 27 people were shot in less than 24 hours. Three of those people were killed. My constituents in Michigan’s 14th District are mourning the loss of local loved ones as well as the nine people killed at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston. Our wounded residents, which include a mother and her two-year-old child, are nursing their own scars as the nation nurses the psychological scars suffered in the aftermath of the South Carolina killings. As I said on the House Floor Wednesday, I strongly support Americans’ Second Amendment Rights. However, it is abundantly clear that America has a problem and that we must act to fix that problem. Our nation’s gun deaths are triple that of other countries that have enacted universal background checks and other commonsense guns laws; nations like Canada, Italy, France, Japan, and the countries that make up the United Kingdom. A staggering 90 percent of American voters want universal background checks. It is time for Congress, along with state and local leaders, to act. That action must include three goals: Establish universal background checks; Eliminate all gun show loopholes; And enforce our existing gun control laws. We must act in honor of the people slain in Charleston, in Detroit, and all over America every day. We must act to ensure that the tragedy of these senseless deaths does not eclipse the value of these individuals’ lives. We must act to help the United States heal and to come together in the pursuit of a more perfect union which includes our freedom and civil rights and respect for people of all races and ethnicities. That is the American dream.”
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) on Tuesday released the following statement regarding the Michigan Strategic Fund’s (MSF) approval of nearly $8 million in local and school tax capture for the Oakland County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority to develop 80 acres in downtown Pontiac as part of the pending M1 Concourse project. “Michigan’s 14th District continues to make great strides toward one of the strongest economic comebacks this nation has seen thanks to projects like the Oakland County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority and M1 Concourse,” Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence said Wednesday. “This project, which will focus on the redevelopment of the vacant GM Pontiac Validation Center property in Pontiac, marks the second multimillion dollar Brownfield Project to be awarded in the 14th Congressional District this month. I am extremely proud of my District’s ability to generate this kind of support and investment, which is crucial for creating the kind of jobs that American workers need to support their families and communities and for building a stronger economy. According to M1 Concourse CEO Brad Oleshansky, the Oakland County Brownfield project is expected to create 95 jobs, the vast majority of which are expected to be full-time positions, and generate a total capital investment of $45 million. The injection of capital and jobs, which are expected to develop over the next three to four years, are expected to benefit residents and businesses throughout Pontiac, said Pontiac Mayor Deirdre Waterman. “M1 Concourse is an innovative project that is an example of the kinds of developments that are fueling the economic resurgence in Pontiac. It is exciting to all of us involved that the first phase sales were highly successful and have excited the interest of the public,” Mayor Deirdre Waterman said. The $7.9 million MSF project will be used to alleviate brownfield conditions at the site and for demolition, site preparation, and infrastructure improvements in preparation for M1 Concourse’s pending redevelopment project, which includes a car condominium and demonstration track for car owners in the Metro Detroit area as well as restaurants, an events center, and retail stores. An official groundbreaking ceremony is scheduled at the site today, June 24, 2015, from 10 a.m. to noon. You can read more about the M1 Concourse redevelopment project here. If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802.
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – “My heart is breaking for the nine people killed at the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church and the surviving victims. I want to express my deepest condolences to the families and friends of those who were slain, and I want them and the good people of Charleston, South Carolina to know they are in my thoughts and prayers.” “There are elements of this crime that remain under investigation and I join the nation in calling for a full and thorough investigation so that justice is served. What is clear is that this crime represents the epitome of evil. It is hard to imagine the terror and desperation that these victims felt as they were gunned down in their beloved house of worship, a place of solace, and the house of God.” “This callous crime has rocked me, and this nation, to the core with unspeakable grief, sadness, confusion, and anger. But while we grieve the loss of so many innocent souls and struggle to understand what happened, we must not become lost in our grief, anger, and confusion. We must remain steadfast and resolute in our faith in humanity and our ability to overcome any tragedy. Good will ultimately triumph over evil if we continue to love and support one another in the face of such abject hatred and malevolence.” “We must also be willing to take action to stop those organizations and individuals that perpetuate hate and violence and that capitalize on our fears. I am speaking out today to work toward the eradication of these organizations; to work with the U.S. Department of Justice, the FBI, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office to hold those responsible for these nefarious deeds accountable; to work for full support of our community leaders who are an integral part of the fight for justice.” If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802.
06.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence on Wednesday released the following statement in response to the inconclusive results of the EPA's investigation of the recent Clinton River oil spill. “I greatly appreciate the hard work and dedication of EPA and state and county officials who were able to contain the spill within 48 hours and remove what is believed to be diesel sheen from the water. However, I have grave concerns about the existing process for reporting, investigating, and enforcing federal and state regulations when contamination occurs. This is not only a concern for me as the congressional representative for Michigan’s 14th District, it is also a personal concern. I live here. My friends and family live here. We drink this water. I want to know if any contamination, no matter the size, poses a threat to the health of the people I serve and the people I love.” “It is troubling that the EPA report, generated at my request, confirmed that there have been 34 spills in Michigan waterways within the past 30 days and that many more spills and contamination events of ‘smaller amounts’ are frequently not reported to federal officials. The Clinton River spill was estimated at less than 500 gallons and characterized as small. I have already said that any amount of contamination, and any potential threat to human health and the environment, is unacceptable. Given that these small spills are also less likely to be reported, we must do everything we can to address this issue and the potential impact as these lesser spills occur and accumulate over time. “As a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a ranking member of the Subcommittee on the Interior, I will work with the EPA and state officials to examine the current reporting and investigation process and to identify ways to improve that process. This includes ensuring that information about contamination events are subject to full and open disclosure, including adopting a more proactive community outreach plan to provide thorough public notification of all such events.” If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802.
06.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) on Tuesday released the following statement in regard to the Michigan Strategic Fund’s approval of nearly $5 million in local and school tax capture for the City of Southfield Brownfield Redevelopment Authority to redevelop 14 acres of property on Northwestern Highway for Dürr Systems, Inc. “MSF could not have picked a better or more deserving business to benefit from this project, which will help Dürr Systems, Inc. consolidate its existing locations into a new, state-of-the-art headquarters and Metro Detroit campus in the City of Southfield,” Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence said Tuesday. “This project will benefit not only Dürr Systems, Inc., but the 485 permanent full-time employees that will be hired as a result of this project and their families. When our hard-working citizens are able to secure good-paying jobs that provide a living wage and opportunity for career growth, they are able to support our local economy and the economic engine for the entire state of Michigan.” The Brownfield Project will generate a total capital investment of approximately $40 million and will serve as a catalyst for future building improvements within the 14th District, according to MSF. Additionally, Southfield has also approved a ten year Commercial Rehabilitation Act district that has an estimated savings of $700,000 for the project. The Commercial Rehabilitation Act district includes several adjacent buildings to locally incentivize for future investment within that district, MSF said. Dürr Systems, Inc. is a global manufacturing and engineering firm that enables highly efficient manufacturing processes in a number of industries, including auto manufacturers and the mechanical engineering, chemical, and pharmaceutical industries. If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer, communications director for Congresswoman Lawrence, at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802.
06.09.2015	May 12, 2014 | News Release WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence on Tuesday released a report on her first 100 days, highlighting her efforts to address key issues for the 14th District, such as the need for quality education and jobs and support for the region’s economic growth and under-served communities. The congresswoman has sponsored four bills and one amendment, she is the original co-sponsor on two other pieces of legislation, she has sponsored an additional 116 pieces of legislation and she has not missed a single vote. “All of my legislation seeks Republican and Democratic support in line with my campaign pledge to find bipartisan solutions to ease the gridlock that has slowed Congress and negatively impacted the American public for far too long,” Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence said. Key pieces of legislation include: H.R. 1970, the Congresswoman’s Workforce Development for the Advancement of Manufacturers Act provides employers a tax credit equal to 20 percent for providing employees with training programs and essential skill building. H.R. 5 amends the existing Student Success Act, which reauthorized ESEA, also known as No Child Left Behind, requires foster youth to be included in tracking and services provided. H.R. 1900, The National Sea Grant College Program Amendments Act supports the Michigan Sea Grant Program at Michigan’s universities, funds the responsible use of the coastal and Great Lakes resources, and has helped more than 10,000 Michigan youths. H.R. 1843, The Pilot Program to Provide Greater Access for Disabled Veterans and their Families to Support Services helps more than 40 percent of Michigan’s veterans who live in rural or remote regions. H.R. 1899, The Caregivers Expansion and Improvement Act allows veterans from all wars the ability to apply for the VA Caregivers program, not just those injured after Sept. 11, 2001. H.R. 1308, The Economy in Motion: The National Multimodal and Sustainable Freight Infrastructure Act seeks to reverse the national trend of our crumbling infrastructure. H.R. 910, The Vehicle-Infrastructure Safety Technology Investment Flexibility Act defines V2I technology to provide a legislative and regulatory path forward and allows states to use certain existing funds to invest in V2I technology. Aside from her legislative work, the congresswoman has dedicated herself fully to constituent outreach. The congresswoman has personally attended more than 400 meetings and events and she has issued more than 500 certificates and awards. The congresswoman’s staff has attended more than 700 meetings and events. She and her staff have responded to more than 4,500 constituent calls, emails, and letters. More than 400 constituent cases were resolved within her first 100 days. Congresswoman Lawrence has taken on additional responsibility with two Small Business Subcommittees focused on Agriculture, Energy and Trade, and Contracting and Workforce. Additionally, the congresswoman has revived the Congressional Former Mayor’s Caucus, a bipartisan group of former mayors who can draw upon their previous service to apply local solutions and know how to federal issues. Congresswoman Lawrence has also co-founded the Congressional Investment in America’s Skilled Workforce Caucus, along with Rep. Yvette Clarke (NY-09), is aggressively seeking membership from both sides of the aisle. If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802. Brenda L. Lawrence was elected to Congress in November 2014. She served as Southfield mayor between 2002 and 2015. A Senior Whip, Congresswoman Lawrence represents 18 communities throughout Greater Detroit, including portions of Detroit as well as segments of Oakland and Wayne counties.
06.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Brenda L. Lawrence on Monday announced that she has requested a full report on the Clinton River oil spill after receiving initial updates from EPA and local officials regarding the spill and its early containment. As a ranking member on the Committee on Oversight & Government Reform Interior Subcommittee and the Congressional representative for Pontiac and Oakland County, the congresswoman’s first priority post containment is to ensure that all of the oil debris is removed from the Clinton River and that the waterway is restored to pre-contamination conditions. The congresswoman is also seeking further confirmation from EPA officials, who said last week that the contamination appeared to pose no significant threat to human health, the environment, or wildlife. “Some people may quibble about the size of the spill, but any contamination of our water sources is a potential health threat to humans as well as the environment and wildlife and a matter that I take extremely seriously,” Congresswoman Lawrence said Monday. Rep. Lawrence is awaiting detailed analysis from the EPA on the incident that is expected to help officials confirm the type of substance – which EPA officials have said is most likely diesel fuel – as well as the source of the leak. The congresswoman added that if any evidence points to illegal dumping or that the leak was due to abandoned facilities or property the responsible party or parties will be held accountable. The analysis is estimated to take at least six weeks, according to EPA officials. Rep. Lawrence also thanked local government officials in Pontiac and Oakland County, including fire department officials, and the EPA for a prompt response that ensured the spill -- estimated at less than 500 gallons, according to EPA’s on-scene coordinator Jeff Lippert -- was contained within 48 hours. If you have any questions, please contact Tracy Manzer in Congresswoman Lawrence’s office at Tracy.Manzer@mail.house.gov or call (202) 225-5802.
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON- U. S. Rep. Brenda L. Lawrence of Michigan’s 14th Congressional District issued the following statement: “I profoundly disagree with Speaker John Boehner’s decision to host Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu before a Joint Session of Congress without first coordinating with the White House. Speaker Boehner’s actions are not only disrespectful to President Barack Obama but violate established protocols. I will, however, be attending the Joint Session to demonstrate my support not for the process but for the close and longstanding relationship we have with the Israeli people and the many constituents I have that support Israel.” Brenda L. Lawrence was elected to Congress in November 2014. She served as Southfield mayor between 2002 and 2015. A Senior Whip, Congresswoman Lawrence represents 18 communities throughout Greater Detroit, including portions of Detroit as well as segments of Oakland and Wayne counties. ###
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON – In bipartisan fashion, U.S. Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) has joined U.S. Rep. Candice Miller (MI-10) as a co-sponsor of the Vehicle-to-Infrastructure Safety Technology Investment Flexibility Act (H.R. 910). Lawrence is a Democrat from Southfield; Miller is a Republican from Harrison Township. The Rep. Miller-sponsored legislation authorizes the use of existing surface transportation funding to invest in vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) technologies intended to improve highway safety. It has been hailed by a variety of industry agencies and leaders including the Michigan Department of Transportation, American Automotive Policy Council as well as General Motors and Ford Motor Company. “I’m pleased to join Congresswoman Miller as a co-sponsor on her legislation,” Lawrence stated. “Michigan residents expect that their representatives on Capitol Hill will solve problems and help to create for them a better quality of life. They don’t see the Ds and Rs before or after our names. This legislation will improve highway safety and provide results.” Highlights of the Vehicle-to-Infrastructure Safety Technology Investment Flexibility Act (H.R. 910) include: For the first time, defines V2I technology in Title 23 to provide a uniform definition for legislative and regulatory purposes; Clarifies that states may utilize existing surface transportation funding provided by the National Highway Performance Program (NHPP), the Surface Transportation Program (STP), and the Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP) to invest in V2I projects as the technology becomes available and a viable element of critical highway infrastructure. Brenda L. Lawrence was elected to Congress in November 2014. She served as Southfield mayor between 2002 and 2015. A Senior Whip, Congresswoman Lawrence represents 18 communities throughout Greater Detroit, including portions of Detroit as well as segments of Oakland and Wayne counties. ###
01.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Brenda L. Lawrence of Michigan's 14th Congressional District has been appointed to serve as ranking member of the Committee on Oversight & Government Reform Interior Subcommittee. “I am honored that I have been appointed to serve as the Ranking Member on the Interior Subcommittee,” Congresswoman Lawrence stated. “I am excited to accept this position of leadership. I will use my skills and remain committed to serving the citizens of the 14th District.” The Interior Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Departments of Interior, Energy, Agriculture and the Environmental Protection Agency. The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is the main investigative committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. It has authority to subjects within the Committee’s legislative jurisdiction as well as "any matter" within the jurisdiction of the other standing House Committees. Brenda L. Lawrence was elected to Congress in November 2014. She served as Southfield mayor between 2002 and 2015. Prior to that, Lawrence served as President of the Southfield Board of Education and President of the Southfield City Council. A Senior Whip, Congresswoman Lawrence represents 18 communities throughout Greater Detroit, including portions of Detroit as well as segments of Oakland and Wayne counties. ###
