02.26.2019	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) issued the following statement after voting for a resolution of disapproval to nullify the recent national emergency declaration:"It is a principal role of the federal government to protect the American people, and, to that end, I support securing the southern border with a physical barrier. A wall, fence, or other barrier is vital to confront the scourge of violent gang members, drugs, and human trafficking ravaging communities across the country. Democrats’ refusal to provide the necessary funds requested by the Department of Homeland Security is a dereliction of this constitutional duty, and I share the President’s frustration and disappointment with the recent funding bill’s failure to address these needs. More funding is required. However, where that money comes from matters for the integrity of government. Our Founding Fathers organized three co-equal branches of government, and Article I of the Constitution gives Congress the exclusive power of the purse. The debate surrounding our southern border has been at the forefront of Congress for months, and insufficient action—however frustrating it may be—is still the prerogative of the legislative branch. It is imperative that no administration, Republican or Democratic, circumvent the will of Congress. Previous presidents have used the authority granted under the National Emergencies Act for matters of which Congress would have supported, but could not do so quickly enough. They did not invoke the authority to subvert the will of Congress. For example, President Carter issued a declaration during the Iran hostage crisis freezing Iranian assets held within the United States. This national emergency declaration does not fall within that broad category, and if gone unchallenged, sets a dangerous precedent which will undoubtedly be exploited by future administrations. Despite my opposition to the use of an emergency declaration in this situation, I do support the underlying goal of securing our border with a physical barrier and urge my colleagues to reconsider additional funding, appropriated from Congress, to meet the needs of our border patrol agents.”
02.07.2019	Washington D.C. - During the State of the Union address, the President highlighted the continued devastation caused by fentanyl, a deadly synthetic opioid that is coming into the country illegally at unprecedented levels. Much of the illicit fentanyl here originates in China. To hold accountable countries that turn a blind eye to this problem U.S. Representatives James Sensenbrenner (R-WI-05) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA-11) U.S. Senators Pat Toomey (R-PA) and Doug Jones (D-AL) have introduced the bipartisan Blocking Deadly Fentanyl Imports Act. The legislation would impose new penalties on fentanyl-exporting nations like China that do not adhere to international narcotics control standards. Under the Blocking Deadly Fentanyl Imports Act, a nation exporting illicit fentanyl would be ineligible for U.S. taxpayer-subsidized foreign aid or Export-Import Bank loans if it fails to cooperate with U.S. narcotics control efforts. These conditions already apply to any nation identified by the Department of State as a major producer or trafficker of illicit heroin, marijuana, cocaine, and methamphetamine and its precursor chemicals. Representative Sensenbrenner: “Americans are now more likely to die from opioid-related overdoses than from car accidents, and fentanyl is the drug most responsible for fatalities. Protecting our communities from illicit fentanyl and fentanyl analogues will require an all-hands-on-deck effort, including better cooperation from the foreign nations from which these deadly drugs are produced and trafficked into our country. This bipartisan legislation will hold these countries accountable for failing to cooperate adequately with our drug enforcement efforts. I’m grateful to Senators Toomey and Jones and Congressman Connolly for their leadership on this important bill.” Representative Connolly: “Fentanyl is destroying families and driving overdose deaths across our country. Just last week, U.S. Customs and Border Patrol seized more than 254 pounds of fentanyl at an official port of entry, their largest confiscation in history. Our bipartisan bill will provide more tools in the growing global fight against this dangerous drug by encouraging countries to cooperate with U.S. drug enforcement efforts. I thank Senators Toomey and Jones, and Representative Sensenbrenner for their leadership on this issue.” Senator Toomey: “Illicit fentanyl from outside our borders has already prematurely ended far too many American lives. As fentanyl can be fifty times as potent as heroin, even small, difficult to detect amounts can be lethal, which is why it’s important to stop this problem at its source. This bipartisan legislation is a commonsense update to existing law that will hold the nations producing illicit fentanyl accountable, whether it be China or wherever the threat emerges next.” Senator Jones: "Fentanyl is destroying families and driving overdose deaths across our country. Just last week, U.S. Customs and Border Patrol seized more than 254 pounds of fentanyl at an official port of entry, their largest confiscation in history. Our bipartisan bill will provide more tools in the growing global fight against this dangerous drug by encouraging countries to cooperate with U.S. drug enforcement efforts. I thank Senators Toomey and Jones, and Representative Sensenbrenner for their leadership on this issue.” Background: What is fentanyl? Fentanyl is a powerful and deadly synthetic opioid analgesic that is similar to morphine but 50 to 100 times more potent. It is up to 50 times more powerful than heroin. What is the role of fentanyl in the current crisis in drug overdoses? According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 29,418 Americans died from overdoses involving fentanyl in 2017, an increase of 840 percent in just five years. What would the Blocking Deadly Fentanyl Imports Act do to help? The Blocking Deadly Fentanyl Imports Act would update longstanding U.S. policy to condition foreign aid to major illicit drug producing nations on support of U.S. narcotics control efforts. It would cut off certain foreign aid to major fentanyl producing countries that fail to adopt laws or regulation similar to U.S. standards on prosecution of individuals trafficking a controlled substance, emergency scheduling of new psychoactive substances, and registration of pill presses or tableting machines. Does the Blocking Deadly Fentanyl Imports Act block all foreign aid to major drug trafficking and transit countries? No, disaster relief, food assistance, medical assistance, and refugee assistance are exempted. Furthermore, the President can maintain the flow of all aid to countries that cooperate with efforts to reduce fentanyl exports to our country and in cases of vital national interest. Where does illicit fentanyl come from? Based on U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) seizure data, China is the principal source country of illicit fentanyl and fentanyl-related compounds in the United States, including both scheduled and non-scheduled substances. What action has China recently taken on fentanyl? At the request of the United States, China has controlled 25 fentanyl substances and two precursor chemicals. However, there are approximately 1,400 potential fentanyl analogues. As part of recent negotiations with the Trump Administration, China indicated that they would take steps to schedule fentanyl as a class, effectively controlling all potential fentanyl analogues. However, it will take some time before we can be certain China will deliver on this commitment or effectively enforce it. The United States has also indicted six Chinese nationals in connection with fentanyl manufacturing and distribution. All six charged Chinese nationals remain at large. While the majority of illicit fentanyl currently comes from China, experts have also noted fentanyl production is relatively cheap and could shift to other nations with large, lightly regulated chemical industries. This is an important reason that the Blocking Deadly Fentanyl Imports Act applies to every country identified by the Administration as a major illicit fentanyl producing or trafficking nation, not just China. Has the Foreign Assistance Act been amended before in response to a drug crisis? Yes. In 2005, the House voted 423-2 to add methamphetamine and its precursors to the list (RCV 386, H.Amdt. 460 to H.R. 2601, July 19, 2005). The provision was then adopted as part of P.L. 109-177.
02.05.2019	Washington, D.C. – Hours before President Trump delivers his second State of the Union Address, House Antitrust Subcommittee Chairman David N. Cicilline (RI-01) and Ranking Member Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) introduced legislation to prohibit pharmaceutical and biologic companies from engaging in anti-competitive conduct that blocks lower-cost generic drugs from entering the market. The Creating and Restoring Equal Access to Equivalent Samples (CREATES) Act is co-sponsored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Ranking Member Doug Collins (GA-09), Congressman Peter Welch (VT-AL), and Congressman David B. McKinley (WV-01). An identical version of the bill was introduced in the Senate by Senators Leahy (D-Vt.), Grassley (R-Iowa), Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Lee (R-Utah). Sensenbrenner: “Americans of all ages are burdened by high prescription drug prices, and we must address this growing issue. I’m proud to sponsor this common-sense bill that will implement market-based solutions, making prescription drugs more affordable, saving taxpayers money, and providing much-needed relief to the American people. I thank Chairman Cicilline as well as Chairman Nadler and Ranking Member Collins for working with me on this bipartisan effort.”Cicilline: “No one should go broke because they can’t afford the cost of their prescription drugs. What pharmaceutical companies are doing is unconscionable. It needs to end. This bipartisan bill will make it easier for generic drugs to enter the market. It will increase competition and help bring down prescription drug costs across the board. I’m pleased to be introducing it with Ranking Member Sensenbrenner today. I look forward to working with him as we pass this bill into law.” Nadler: “The outrageous cost of prescription drugs is a moral crisis. I am very proud to join Subcommittee Chairman Cicilline, Ranking Member Collins, and Subcommittee Ranking Member Sensenbrenner to introduce this important measure. The CREATES Act will spur new competition where there is none today, saving working Americans billions of dollars. Most importantly, enacting this bill will save lives as families with competitive options for blockbuster drugs won’t have to choose between their health and financial security.”Collins: “The price of pharmaceuticals has a huge impact on families across the United States. This legislation is a great starting point from which we can work to help lower drug prices and increase access to generic options. I thank Reps. Cicilline and Sensenbrenner for their leadership in introducing this bill and look forward to collaborating on it going forward.” Welch: “Skyrocketing prescription drug prices are crushing hard working Americans. This commonsense legislation will bring down costs by reigning in the predatory efforts of pharmaceutical companies to delay access to cost-effective generic alternatives to brand name drugs. I look forward to getting this legislation passed so we can provide much-needed relief to consumers and save taxpayers millions of dollars.” McKinley: “The high cost of prescription drugs requires many Americans to make difficult financial decisions for themselves and their families. This bipartisan bill will help provide patient access to lifesaving medications at affordable prices. Families should never have to decide between affording their medications and grocery shopping. This legislation will prevent pharmaceutical companies from blocking affordable alternatives from entering the market and will help keep money in Americans’ pockets.” The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the CREATES Act will result in a $3.9 billion net decrease in the federal deficit. Savings to consumers and private insurers likely would be far greater.The CREATES Act is strongly supported by the Association for Accessible Medicines (AAM), consumer groups including AARP, Consumers Union, and Public Citizen; the American College of Physicians; the American Hospital Association; the Campaign for Sustainable Rx Pricing; and America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP).
02.05.2019	Washington, D.C.–Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) offered the following statement after President Trump delivered his second State of the Union address: “Just over a month ago, Congress and the President found a way to come together and pass historic, bipartisan criminal justice reform—the culmination of an effort I was proud to lead for over a decade. Together, we must build upon that success and choose to push forward through partisan gridlock, reject unprincipled resistance, and restore civility and cooperation. The last two years were filled with many successes for the American people, and we must charge ahead to ensure security, restore liberty, and increase opportunity for all. “
01.30.2019	Brookfield, WI—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) announced the nomination of 34 candidates from Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District for admission to the U.S. service academies. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “I am honored to nominate these outstanding young men and women to our nation’s service academies. They have proven themselves to be exceptionally-gifted students and well-respected members of our community, and I am confident that they will become fine leaders in our military. I also thank the volunteers who serve on my Academy Selection Committee for helping identify the most qualified candidates in a very competitive field of applicants.” Nominees are designated as “principal” or “alternate.” Principal nominees who meet academic, physical, and medical standards set by each academy are guaranteed an appointment to that academy. Alternate nominees compete for available slots should any principal nominees choose not to accept or fail to qualify for their appointment. Additionally, alternate nominees are part of a pool of applicants from which the academies select the incoming class. The United States Merchant Marine Academy does not differentiate between principal and competing alternate nominations. This year, Congressman Sensenbrenner nominated 34 students, including three principal nominees. They are as follows: Principal Nominees: Grace Ejnik of Whitewater has been named a principal nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Grace, daughter of John Ejnik and Sara Norton, attends Whitewater High School. Peter Ratnayake of Pewaukee has been named a principal nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Peter, son of Yannick and Maureen Ratnayake, attends Marquette University High School. Jessica Steger of Iron Ridge has been named a principal nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Jessica, daughter of Steve Steger and Kristine Konitzer, attends Marion Military Institute. Competing Alternate Nominees and United States Merchant Marine Academy Nominees: Claire Albrecht of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Claire, daughter of Mark and Mary Albrecht, attends Wisconsin Lutheran High School. Brooke Barreda of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Brooke, daughter of Aaron Barreda and Jennifer Harmeling, attends Brookfield Central High School. August Beyer of Slinger has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. August, son of Paul and Julie Beyer, attends Marquette University. Cassidy Brodeske of Watertown has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Cassidy, daughter of Kevin and Beth Brodeske, attends Watertown High School. Kevin Carrig of Elm Grove has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Kevin, son of James and Jane Carrig, attends Marquette University High School. Benjamin Didier of Wauwatosa has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY and a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Benjamin, son of John and Jill Didier, attends Marquette University High School. Jordan Edwards of Germantown has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Jordan, son of Mark and Margaret Edwards, attends Germantown High School. Giovanni Gambatese of Pewaukee has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Giovanni, son of Timothy and Tracey Gambatese, attends Arrowhead High School. Anthony Giampietro of Elm Grove has been named a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Anthony, son of Gordon P. and Mia C. Giampietro, attends Marquette University High School. Austin Godwin of Germantown has been named a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Austin, son of Tom Godwin and Ingrid Kish, attends Germantown High School. Tyler Guetzke of Hartland has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Tyler, son of Michael and Rebecca Guetzke, attends Arrowhead High School. Ryan Hayden of Watertown has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Ryan, son of Seth and Amy Hayden, attends the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Jaden Henneman of Whitewater has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Jaden, daughter of John Pfinder and Stacey Henneman, attends Whitewater High School. Jonah Hestetune of Menomonee Falls has been named a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Jonah, son of Marlon Hestetune and Jeanette Prince-Hestetune, attends the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Jacob Kohlmeier of Wauwatosa has been named a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Jacob, son of James and Laura Kohlmeier, attends Milwaukee Lutheran High School. Ryan Kops of Menomonee Falls has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY and a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Ryan, son of Jeffery and Tammy Kops, currently attends Sussex-Hamilton High School. Dominic Kowalik of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Dominic, son of Robert and Colette Kowalik, currently attends Marquette University High School. Owen Krueger of Brookfield has been named a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Owen, son of Jason and Emily Kreuger, attends Brookfield East High School. Robert Meier of Sussex has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Robert, son of Randy A. and Christine S. Meier, attends Arrowhead Union High School. Brian Melching of Greenfield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Brian, son of Charles Melching and Qiong Yang, attends Martin Luther High School. Joseph Murphy of Hartland has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Joseph, son of John and Mary Hirthe Murphy, attends Trinity Academy. Troy Nachtigal of Fort Atkinson has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Troy, son of Terry and Julie Nachtigal, attends the United States Military Academy Preparatory School. Michael Naze of Oconomowoc has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Michael, son of Scott and Richelle Naze, attends the United States Naval Academy Preparatory School. Adam Pelzman of Jackson has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Acadmey. Pelzman, son of John and Victoria Pelzman, attends the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Savannah Peterson of Waukesha has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Savannah, daughter of Steven and Marites Peterson, attends Divine Savior Holy Angels High School. Jackson Raad of West Bend has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Jackson, son of Nader and Brenda Raad, attends West Bend West High School. John Reardon of Oconomowoc has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. John, son of Kevin and Christine Reardon, attends the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Evan Sievers of Slinger has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Evan, son of Daren and Michelle Sievers, attends Slinger High School. Everett Vallier of Waukesha has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Everett, son of Joel and Whitney Vallier, attends Waukesha North High School. Emily Willis of Pewaukee has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Emily, daughter of James and Susanne Willis, attends Pewaukee High School. Margaret Wright of Waukesha has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Margaret, daughter of John and Jean Wright, attends Catholic Memorial High School.
01.15.2019	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI-05) and Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) reintroduced companion versions of the Disability Integration Act to help ensure the full integration of Americans with disabilities into communities across the nation. Advocacy groups, including the Center for Disability Rights, ADAPT, and the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP), joined lawmakers for a press conference to highlight its importance to the disability community. Rep. Sensenbrenner offered the following statement: “I apologize that I cannot be with you today, as I am currently recovering from hip surgery. I want to pass along my thanks for all of the important work that the disability advocates have done to garner support for the Disability Integration Act. I am proud to again sponsor the House version of this strong, bipartisan bill. It will help ensure that individuals with disabilities have equal rights and opportunities. The progress we have made since President George H.W. Bush signed the Americans with Disabilities Act is remarkable. In particular, I am proud of my wife, Cheryl, who has worked tirelessly on behalf of the disability community, and I was honored to stand with her behind President George W. Bush as he signed the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act in 2008. Still, there is much work to be done to strengthen laws to protect individuals with disabilities. I again thank the thousands of advocates who came to Washington D.C. this week, especially those from my home state of Wisconsin. You inspire us to continue pushing on, and I look forward to working together to advance our efforts.” Background: The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 made assurances that people with disabilities be allowed to live independently, rather than being forced into an institution. Additionally, in 1999, the Supreme Court held in Olmstead v. L.S., that the unjustified segregation of people with disabilities is unlawful discrimination. Despite the Olmstead ruling, few States have come into full compliance with Olmstead or the ADA, and most are not providing adequate accommodations for people with disabilities to live independently. The Disability Integration Act would, in effect, add teeth to the Supreme Court’s Olmstead decision, which first set out the principle that these services aren’t just benefits, but that they are the practical embodiment of the right to independence for people with significant disabilities.
01.10.2019	Alexandria, VA—Earlier today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) underwent a successful hip replacement surgery at Mt. Vernon Hospital. By way of background, six years ago Mr. Sensenbrenner suffered a fall while attending a community fair in Butler, WI. After a surgical repair at that time, he was able to resume his duties. However, doctors advised it was only a temporary fix. The condition of the hip worsened recently, and doctors recommended a full replacement. Congressman Sensenbrenner will recuperate and rehab for several weeks. He is grateful for all of the well wishes and prayers and looks forward to being back in commission very soon.
01.09.2019	Washington, D.C.—Following the President’s address last night, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) re-introduced the Build Up Illegal Line Defenses With Assets Lawfully Lifted (BUILD WALL) Act. He was joined in this effort with Congressmen Mark Meadows (NC-11), Jeff Duncan (SC-03), Phil Roe (TN-01), Rob Bishop (UT-01), Bob Gibbs (OH-07), and Jody Hice (GA-10). This legislation would direct money and assets seized from Mexican drug cartels to be used to increase border security between the U.S./Mexican border. In addition to building a physical wall, the funding may also be used to construct other types of barriers or to implement technology-supported solutions where appropriate.Rep. Sensenbrenner: “This commonsense legislation will provide the necessary funding to completely secure our southern border and cut off the flow of gang members and drugs into our country. Best of all, this can be done with minimal cost to the American taxpayer. This bill would break through the stalemate of funding for border security, thereby providing a path to reopen the government. Congress should consider this legislation immediately so we can return to other important legislative business.”You can view the text of the legislation here.Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced identical legislation during the 115th Congress. Senator Ted Cruz has introduced similar legislation in the Senate.
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, the House passed S. 756, the First Step Act. This bipartisan criminal justice reform package includes Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner’s (WI-05) reauthorization language of the Second Chance Act, which provides grants for the purpose of helping newly-released prisoners successfully reenter society. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “Republicans and Democrats coming together to pass criminal justice reform is a monumental victory for the American people, and I’m proud to have been a leader of this effort that has been years in the making. I’m also proud to note that this bill reauthorizes the Second Chance Act, which has been instrumental in healing communities by helping those who have paid their debts to society to rejoin their families and live a productive life. I thank Chairman Goodlatte, Congressman Collins, and the many others who carried this bill across the finish line.” You can view Congressman Sensenbrenner's remarks on the House floor here. Background on the First Step Act: The First Step Act is a combination of the original House-passed First Step Act, the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act, and the Second Chance Reauthorization Act. The comprehensive package aims to reduce over-criminalization by preparing inmates to successfully reenter society through programs proven to reduce recidivism. Additionally, it gives judges greater discretion when sentencing low-level, nonviolent offenders and provides grants for reentry programs. Background on the Second Chance Reauthorization Act: Congressmen Danny Davis (D-IL-07) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI-05) introduced the original Second Chance Act in 2007. It passed Congress with strong bipartisan support, and President George W. Bush signed it into law in 2008. This legislation provided non-profit faith and community-based organizations with mentoring grants to develop support programs such as drug treatment, housing, job training, medical care, and education. Reentry services have been improved in the decade since the Second Chance Act was implemented, which resulted in a reduction in recidivism and helped ensure a successful return to society for prisoners who have completed their sentence. More than 160,000 men, women, and youths returning home from prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities have benefited from Second Chance grants providing career training, mentoring, family-based substance abuse treatment, and other evidence-based reentry programs. This investment has also paid public safety dividends. A report from the National Reentry Resource Center highlights how numerous states have experienced drastic reductions in statewide recidivism rates as a result of robust reentry services made possible in part through Second Chance. Congressmen Sensenbrenner and Davis introduced the Second Chance Reauthorization Act in 2017 to build upon the success of the original legislation. The bill authorizes funding for both public and private entities to evaluate and improve academic and vocational education for offenders in prison, jails, and juvenile facilities.
12.14.2018	Washington, D.C.— Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI-05) and Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY-08) introduced legislation to direct the US Attorney General (AG) to make grants to states and localities for gunfire detection and location technology. The AG would be authorized to allocate $10 million annually for the next four fiscal years. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “This commonsense legislation will help law enforcement quickly and accurately locate violent crimes, cut down on response time, and save lives. Cities like Milwaukee have already begun utilizing this type of technology and have with positive results. I’m grateful to Congressman Jeffries for joining me in leading this important effort.” Background: Cities like Milwaukee have already begun utilizing gunshot detection technology. Networked sensors are placed throughout a coverage area to detect the origin of gunshots. Once a gunshot is detected, the technology calculates the position of the shooter and instantly notifies law enforcement with real-time data delivered to dispatch centers, patrol cars, and smart phones. Police stations that have access to shot detecting technology can arrive at the scene faster and better prepared to protect the public and themselves as well as attend to victims. Further, information gather is secured in a database and then turned into preemptive intelligence, which provides for better dispatch of resources and improved collection of evidence. Far too often gunfire incidents are not reported to 911 dispatchers. This means law enforcement begin responding to crimes with significantly limited information. Additionally, reports of gunfire often contain vague or inaccurate information resulting in lost time and less efficient response by law enforcement. Early data suggests that use of gunfire detection technology has shown positive results. According to a report, the city of Milwaukee has seen a 38 percent decrease in the amount of gunshots fired in areas where this technology was used from 2017 to 2018 showing that its use can act as a deterrent.
12.12.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, The House unanimously passed S. 3170, the CyberTipline Modernization Act of 2018, which cleared the Senate unanimously in September. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) sponsored H.R. 4447, the companion legislation in the House. The bill now heads to the White House for the President’s signature. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “Today’s vote will reduce the online sexual exploitation of children. The bill improves upon the successes of the existing CyberTipline by empowering the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to address new developments in online child abuse. I urge the President to sign it into law immediately.” Background: First launched by the National Center on Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) in 1998, the CyberTipline allows public citizens and members of the technology industry to report online instances of child sexual exploitation and abuse, such as child pornography, online enticement of children for sexual acts, child sex tourism, and child sex trafficking. In 2017 alone, NCMEC received more than 10 million reports. The CyberTipline Modernization Act makes key updates to the existing program, including changes to reporting requirements for imminent or planned violations. The bill also reflects a commitment to fight new forms of online abuse including the expansion of child pornography. Congress last updated the CyberTipline statute in 2008.
12.01.2018	Brookfield, WI—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) issued the following statement after the death of the 41st President of the United States, President George H.W. Bush: "My deepest condolences go out to the Bush family, and I join our nation in mourning the passing of George H.W. Bush. The former president was a heroic veteran, accomplished statesman, and lifelong public servant whose sense of duty and devotion to our country stands as a shining example for all. He lived a remarkable life, and our nation is stronger today because of him. I am grateful for his contributions to society and will keep his loved ones in my prayers. May he rest in peace."
11.28.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed bipartisan legislation to extend E-3 visa eligibility to Irish Nationals. The bill was sponsored by Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI-05) and Richard Neal (D-MA-01). Congressman Sensenbrenner delivered the following remarks on the House floor: “The United States was built on hard work and the determination of immigrants -many of them who hail from Ireland. Through their perseverance, they have enabled this country to grow and prosper. I believe in the value and opportunity that comes with legal immigration. I am pleased to have authored this legislation to make the process more efficient for one of our oldest allies, and add to the great legacy of cultural diversity celebrated our country. This modest proposal would give Irish Nationals the opportunity to work in the U.S. under the non-immigrant visa category of the E-3 Visa, previously reserved only for Australian nationals. Ireland in the meantime, has proposed a reciprocal work visa specific to U.S. nationals so that those wanting to live and work in Ireland can more easily do so. The E-3 visa is one of the most efficient U.S. visa options. Applicants outside the United States may apply directly at a U.S. consulate, thus avoiding lengthy processing times with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. The visas are granted for 2 year periods (renewable indefinitely), and the spouses of E-3 visa holders are permitted to apply for employment authorization documents. Currently, 10,500 E-3 visas are allocated each year, yet only half of these are used. This legislation would allow Irish nationals to apply for those visas unused by Australian nationals. This significant addition to the U.S. immigration system will not only benefit Irish nationals seeking employment in the United States, but also ease restrictions on Americans wanting to live or retire in Ireland. In conclusion, I would like to say that this does not increase the number of visas that are authorized in total. It merely allows the Irish nationals to apply for the visas that Australian nationals do not want to use on a year-to-year basis. I urge my colleagues to support the legislation and yield back the balance of my time.” Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced similar legislation in the 114th Congress.
10.11.2018	Brookfield, WI—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) sent a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler urging the EPA to reconsider its plan to expand the sale of E15 motor fuel. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “The Renewable Fuel Standard violates free market principles, puts consumers at risk, and is harmful to the environment. Expanding the sale of E15 will increase the danger of misfueling, causing damage to engines and voiding consumer warranties. I urge the EPA not to move forward with this plan.” Background Congress first established the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) under the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The policy now requires that ethanol be blended into motor fuel at increasing levels each year. Currently, fuel can be produced and sold with a blend of 15 percent ethanol (E15). However, due to environmental regulations, E15 fuel cannot be sold during summer months. The Trump administration recently announced plans to lift the restrictions and allow for E15 sale year-round. You can view the full text of the letter below: October 11, 2018 The Honorable Andrew WheelerActing AdministratorU.S. Environmental Protection Agency1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20460 Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler: I write to you with significant concerns about the recent proposal to expand the sale of E15 motor fuel. The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) has been in place for more than a decade, yet this policy continues to violate the free market and pose a threat to consumers. Expanding to year-round E15 sales would prop up the RFS and continue to subject American consumers and farmers to government-mandated decision making. I have had a very active role in the debate surrounding fuel blends with higher ethanol contents. Through this work, I have had ongoing conversations with many interested parties—your predecessors at the EPA, industry representatives, consumer groups, and environmental advocates. My work on this issue has always been driven by the belief that the government should not mandate the use of any product—or fuel—and the country would be better served if the RFS mandates are removed completely. Since this is as much a political debate as a policy-centered one, I recognize the barriers to a complete overhaul of the RFS. However, I would like to highlight some of the most glaring issues and how they will be exacerbated by the expanded sale of E15. Contrary to the special interest arguments, the RFS is unfriendly to consumers. Misfueling with E15 is dangerous for many common machines. For example, lawnmowers, boats, snowmobiles, motorcycles, and vintage automobiles are incompatible with this fuel blend. The EPA acknowledged these issues in the original waiver permitting the use of E15 in newer automobiles. However, there has been insufficient work done to mitigate the potential for misfueling. Allowing for the expanded availability of E15 sales puts American consumers in greater jeopardy of the dangers of misfueling and product failure. Free markets drive American innovation and sustain our economy. However, the RFS policy is antithetical to free market principles. The complex, government-mandated market for renewable blending credits is ripe for fraud. Additionally, the EPA’s use of its broad authority to grant exemptions from blending obligations demonstrates the standard’s unattainability. Furthermore, approximately 40 percent of domestic corn production now feeds into ethanol production, meaning a not-insignificant portion of American farmers are subject to the whims of government policy. Rural America needs sustained, dependable growth, rather than programmed agricultural outputs generated by political motivations. The United States must return to its historical reliance on market-driven outcomes. The RFS was established to strengthen national security by reducing dependence on foreign energy supplies. As an added benefit, it was also touted as decreasing the environmental impacts of automobile use. Some research questions whether increased farming activity correlated with the RFS cancels out its expected environmental benefits. I understand some industries have exerted significant political pressure to convince the EPA to expand the E15 waiver. However, I urge you to consider the RFS’s legacy before propping up this overly-rigid, failed energy policy. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR.Member of Congress
10.01.2018	Brookfield, WI—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced it has reached a trilateral trade deal with Canada and Mexico:“Wisconsin stands to benefit from this new trade deal, which expands Americans’ access to auto manufacturing and dairy markets. This is an important step toward strengthening our trade relationships and growing our economy, and I applaud the administration for its persistence and hard work in reaching this agreement.”
09.27.2018	Washington, D.C.—Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner delivered the following remarks today at a hearing titled “Post-PASPA: An Examination of Sports Betting in America”: Good morning, and I’d like to welcome you all to today’s hearing. First of all, let me say that this topic that we’re going to be discussing today is probably just as important in terms of setting the future of American society as what’s going on before our Judiciary Committee counterparts on the other side of the Capitol. But obviously we don’t have the attention of the media since we have a mostly empty press table over there. However, this is going to be an issue that is going to be very important in terms of making a determination of how professional and amateur sports are played, and any regulation, if any, that Congress should decide to put on the huge amounts of money that are bet both in legal and, in some cases, illegal forums. The Subcommittee will examine the state of sports gambling in America. This subject is extremely important and complex. Development in the past year mean it may soon affect the lives of millions of Americans. Sports in America are tightly woven into our lives. They are our pastime, our passion. They bring us together; they divide us—hopefully in good sportsmanship; they serve as an escape; and yet they consume us. I don’t watch much television, but when the Packers and the Brewers are on, the tv is on in my house. And I’m able to get away from what goes on in this business. And I’m particularly happy to see the Brewers on their way to the World Series. Come Milwaukee if you want to see some really great baseball played in the month of October. Earlier this year, the Supreme Court, in the case of Murphy v. NCAA, struck down the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act, or PASPA. PASPA was enacted in 1992, with the express purpose of protecting the integrity of professional and amateur American athletics. As written, PASPA effectively prohibited state-sanctioned sports betting nationwide, although contained a “grandfather clause” exempting states where wagering was already legal, including Nevada. Its nullification by the Supreme Court was preceded by many years of litigation, mostly involving the State of New Jersey and its efforts to establish a legal sports wagering regime. In issuing the Murphy decision, Justice Alito wrote that the law unconstitutionally “commandeered” the main regulatory power of the states to enact their own gambling laws. Of course, the Tenth Amendment provides that all powers not expressly granted to the federal government are reserved to the states, or the people. Specifically, Justice Alito stated that “The legalization of sports gambling requires an important policy choice,” and this is one we will be making here sometime in the near future, “but the choice is not ours to make. Congress can regulate sports gambling directly, but if it elects not to do so, each state is free to act on its own. Our job is to interpret the law Congress has enacted and decide whether it is consistent with the Constitution. PASPA is not. PASPA ‘regulate[s] state governments’ regulation of their citizens. The Constitution gives Congress no such power.” The Supreme Court’s ruling means that, unlike during the 25-year existence of PASPA, states are now free to enact their own statutory and regulatory sports gambling schemes. And that is why we are here. This panel before us should show how this issue permeates every level of our government, and crosses from the gambling industry to professional athletics, to organizations dedicated to protecting citizens, and to state regulatory bodies. Today, I expect to hear from our distinguished panel about the options available in the post-Murphy environment. One option, of course, would be for Congress to re-enact a federal ban on sports gambling. Some have suggested that doing so would be as simple as prohibiting corporations – not states – from engaging in sports gambling activities. And it would curb any use of legalized, commercialized sports wagering to prey on vulnerable citizens. Another possibility would be for Congress to defer to the states, and allow them to legalize and regulate the sports gaming business. This option is attractive to many who want the free market to work its will, since many current state laws and regulations already address issues as age restrictions, record keeping requirements and licensing and suitability determinations. And a third option would be for Congress to adopt uniform, minimum federal standards, which would guide the imposition of sports wagering across the nation, in states that desire to legalize the practice. Now let me express a personal view. With the huge amount of money that is involved in sports gambling, both above board and below board, the temptation is there to throw games—whether it’s done by officials, whether it is done by players, or whether it’s done by the actual teams. The first commissioner was appointed to oversee baseball following the Black Sox scandal. Recently, there was an NBA referee that ended up being accused, and I believe being convicted, of helping throw a game. And what I can say also being a Green Bay Packer fan is: after any controversial call—like the extremely bad calls against Clay Matthews for roughing the passer, in my opinion—the question will arise is whether the call was made by a referee who was calling them as he saw them or by a referee who was trying to influence the outcome of the game. Unless something is done, in my opinion, to protect honest and legitimate betters from those who would like to tilt the games one way or the other illegally, unethically, and against the sports rules, we are going to be in for a huge amount of trouble in the future. As I said at the outset, this is a complex issue, involving a variety of other issues – and statutes, outside of PASPA. There may need to be updates to other federal statutes to reflect this new reality. As a husband, father, grandfather, and sports fan, I am committed to two things: protecting our children and the games we love. Any solution crafted by Congress must address those two principles. I thank our distinguished panel of witnesses, and look forward to your testimony.
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C.—Last night, the House unanimously passed H.R. 6847, the Preventing Child Exploitation Act. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) cosponsored this legislation, which includes key provisions of the 2006 Adam Walsh Protection and Safety Act that he authored. Throughout his career, Congressman Sensenbrenner has taken the lead on initiatives to protect children. He was instrumental in passing the 2003 PROTECT Act, which enhanced the AMBER Alert system, strengthened penalties against kidnappers, and aids law enforcement in protecting children. And in 2006, The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act expanded coverage of the national sex offender registry, mandates the collection of DNA from sex offenders, and forces states to comply with requirements to keep information on the sex offender database current. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “The sexual abuse of children is a despicable crime, and Congress must protect those most innocent and vulnerable among us. This bipartisan legislation, which contains a reauthorization of my Adam Walsh Act, is an important step to preventing sexual exploitation of our nation’s children.” Background on the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act Originally passed in 2006, the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act has played a vital role in the prevention of sexual exploitation of America’s children. The comprehensive, bipartisan law strengthened sex offender registry requirements and enforcement across the country, extended registry requirements to Native American tribes, increased penalties for child predators, and authorized funding for various programs to strengthen our defenses against child exploitation. Language included in H.R. 6847 reauthorizes the two primary programs of the Adam Walsh Act— The Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA) and The Sex Offender Management Assistance Program (SOMA). SORNA sets minimum guidelines for state sex offender registries and establishes the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website, which is a comprehensive national system for the registration and notification to the public of sex offenders. SOMA provides funding to the states, tribes, and other jurisdictions to offset the costs of implementing and enhancing SORNA, and funding for the U.S. Marshals Service and other law enforcement agencies to assist jurisdictions in locating and apprehending sex offenders who violate registration requirements.
09.14.2018	Washington, D.C — This week, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (CA-14), Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-03), and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) introduced the Online Sales Simplicity and Small Business Relief Act to clarify interstate sales tax collection requirements in light of the Supreme Court’s decision in South Dakota v. Wayfair. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “This bipartisan legislation reins in the taxation free-for-all created by the Supreme Court’s ruling in Wayfair. Online sellers need clarity and stability in the sales tax arena. Our bill will protect small businesses and Internet entrepreneurs from excessive regulatory burdens. Throughout the Fifth Congressional District, I continually hear from businesses that they need ‘certainty.’ This bill provides that.” Background In June, the Supreme Court handed down a ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair that overturned decades of precedent regarding online and interstate sales tax collection requirements. In the Wayfair decision, the Court struck down the “physical presence” standard established under National Bellas Hess, Inc. v. Department of Revenue of Ill. and Quill Corp. v. North Dakota. Under that precedent, out of state sellers, also known as remote sellers, were not required to collect sales tax on transactions made in a state in which they did not have a “physical presence,” such as an office, store, or warehouse. Moving forward, all remote sellers that continue to do out of state business will be required to navigate the more than 10,000 different tax jurisdictions each time they complete a transaction. While some retailers can absorb the costs of the additional regulatory burden, thousands of independent online entrepreneurs will be harmed. The House Judiciary Committee held a hearing in July titled “Examining the Wayfair decision and its Ramifications for Consumers and Small Businesses.” How the bill works The Online Sales Simplicity and Small Business Relief Act bans retroactive taxation, establishes an orderly phase-in of compliance obligations, and creates a small business exemption. Specifically, it bars states from imposing sales tax collection duties on remote sellers for any sale that occurred prior to June 21, 2018—the date of the Wayfair decision. It also prevents states from imposing sales tax collection duties before January 1, 2019. Finally, it provides a $10 million exemption for small business sellers, until the states produce a compact, approved by Congress, to simplify collection to the point where no small business exemption is necessary. You can view the full the text of the bill here.
09.06.2018	Washington, D.C.—The National Taxpayers Union (NTU) today announced Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) ranks first on the list of House members for having the best voting record on lowering taxes and limiting government. Notably, Sensenbrenner has received this “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” every year he has been in Congress, and has ranked first on this list four times since NTU began its rankings in 1992. Each year, NTU examines every roll call vote taken in the House and Senate, then weighs them based on fiscal or regulatory impact to taxpayers. “My record reflects I have been unwavering in my efforts to stand up for taxpayers – fighting to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent responsibly and effectively. I am proud of the recognition I have received from the National Taxpayers Union, and I thank NTU for all the work they do in bringing attention to these crucial issues,“ said Congressman Sensenbrenner. “I will always keep taxpayers as my top priority and will continue to be their voice in Congress.” “Only lawmakers with a voting record that is the best-of-the-best will earn NTU’s Taxpayers’ Friend Award,” said Pete Sepp, president of NTU. “Congressman Sensenbrenner has demonstrated a tireless commitment to supporting taxpayers’ interests in Washington, and a dedication to solving the government’s tax-and-spend problems with action rather than just words. Fixing America’s budget problems takes hard work, and Congressman Sensenbrenner has been doing that work every single day.” You can view NTU’s full 2017 congressional scorecard here.You can view the NTU Taxpayers’ Friend List here.You can view NTU’s methodology here.
08.30.2018	Brookfield, WI—The National Narcotic Officers’ Associations’ Coalition (NNOAC), which represents 40 state narcotic officer associations and more than 60,000 law enforcement officers, announced its support of the Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues (SOFA) Act. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI-05) and Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI) have introduced companion versions of the SOFA Act in the House and Senate, respectively. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The SOFA Act will help empower law enforcement officers to combat the growing spread of deadly fentanyl analogues. As criminals look for new ways to circumvent our laws, we must adapt to the evolving threats in the opioid epidemic. I thank the NNOAC for their service keeping our communities safe and for their support of this important legislation.” NNOAC President Bob Bushman: “We appreciate the leadership from Chairman Sensenbrenner and Senator Johnson on this important issue. With more than 72,000 drug poisoning deaths in 2017 alone, many of them related to the ever increasing use of fentanyl-laced heroin, this tragic epidemic will only get worse unless we put forward every tool possible to tackle it. We urge swift consideration and passage of the SOFA Act.” Senator Ron Johnson: “The SOFA Act will give law enforcement important new tools to curb the supply of illicit fentanyl and close legal loopholes that have allowed criminal drug manufacturers and traffickers to stay one step ahead of the law. I appreciate the support of the National Narcotic Officers’ Associations’ Coalition for this important bill. I join them in urging Congressional leadership to pass the SOFA Act as soon as possible.” You can read more about the SOFA Act here. You can read the bill text here. You can view the full text of the NNOAC letter below: Dear Congressman Sensenbrenner, I am writing on behalf of the National Narcotic Officers’ Associations’ Coalition (NNOAC), which represents 40 state narcotic officer associations and over 60,000 law enforcement officers, in support of your legislation, H.R. 4922, the Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues (SOFA) Act. As you know, cases involving fentanyl have exploded, and we are seeing drug overdose deaths surge because of it. Confiscations or seizures of fentanyl have risen by nearly seven-times from 2012 to 2014, with 4,585 fentanyl confiscations in 2014. Disconcerting, because of the potency of fentanyl, fentanyl related deaths have more than doubled from 2013 to 2014. Fentanyl is now the fifth most commonly found drug in an overdose death. It is tragic to witness the devastating effect that the opioid and heroin epidemic is having on our communities. Many of us have family members or friends who have been afflicted with addiction, or sadly have overdosed. To tackle this growing problem, we believe SOFA provides significant steps to combat and deter the fentanyl trade. By immediately rescheduling nineteen fentanyl analogues to Schedule I and making it easier for DEA to reschedule other fentanyl analogues, it will enable law enforcement to be more pro-active in responding to the opioid crisis. NNOAC appreciates that you sought to address the whack-a-mole challenge of targeting the quickly altered chemical makeup of dangerous narcotics to avoid prosecution. By empowering DEA to respond sooner with drug scheduling authority, it will make it easier to keep up with the new compounds. The ever-changing nature of synthetic opioids have made our ability to go after those who produce, traffic, and distribute the poison that is flooding our streets ever more difficult. Tragically, every day that we continue to debate how to tackle the opioid problem, 91 more Americans have lost their lives from an overdose. With fentanyl being added to the mix, it has only exacerbated the carnage. We appreciate the hard work that you have put in to this legislation and believe that SOFA will provide an additional valuable tool to help get this epidemic under control. Please consider us as a resource at your disposal as you move forward with this legislation and other policy initiatives. Sincerely,Bob BushmanPresidentNational Narcotic Officers’ Associations’ Coalition
08.23.2018	Brookfield, WI—Today, Wisconsin Attorney General Brad Schimel (R) and Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen (D) led the National Association of Attorneys General in sending a bipartisan letter to Congressional Leadership urging the “swift passage” of the Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues (SOFA) Act. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI-05) has sponsored the SOFA Act in the House and Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI) has sponsored the Senate companion. Background on the SOFA Act: Fentanyl is currently a Schedule II controlled substance and, when prescribed by a doctor, can be safely used as a painkiller for cancer patients and other individuals experiencing excruciating pain. However, outside of careful supervision, fentanyl can be lethal and, along with other synthetic opioids, is now the leading cause of opioid overdoses. In addition, street drug manufacturers create slight variations of fentanyl known as “analogues,” which fall into a legal loophole and are frequently becoming the cause of opioid-related deaths. To combat this new trend, Congressman Sensenbrenner and Senator Johnson have introduced versions of the SOFA Act in the House and Senate. The SOFA Act immediately adds more than a dozen known fentanyl analogues to the Schedule I list and gives the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) the authority to immediately schedule new fentanyl analogues as they are discovered. The bill shares the acronym of an organization started by Oconomowoc, WI resident Lauri Badura, who lost her son, Archie, to an overdose in 2014. Shortly after, she founded the faith-based non-profit Saving Others for Archie, Inc. to raise awareness and fight the opioid epidemic. During a May House Judiciary Committee hearing, the DEA Administrator testified on the need for legislation to help law enforcement combat fentanyl analogues. Dr. Timothy Westlake, a Wisconsin based emergency medical physician, also testified in support of the SOFA Act, which he later called in an op-ed the “One bill that will stop the spread of deadly fentanyl.” Representative Sensenbrenner: “Heart-wrenching stories like Archie Badura’s are far too common today. The opioid epidemic impacts everyone in some way — it doesn’t discriminate by age, race, socioeconomic status, or location. Combating the newest front in the crisis — fentanyl and its analogues — will require an all-hands-on-deck effort and passing the SOFA Act is an essential piece of the puzzle. I’m extremely grateful to AGs Schimel and Jepsen for leading this bipartisan letter and to Senator Johnson for his efforts in the Senate. It’s imperative that Speaker Ryan and Leader McConnell bring the SOFA Act up for consideration when Congress reconvenes.” Attorney General Schimel: “A small amount of fentanyl has the ability to cause great harm, even to unsuspecting people like children and first responders at overdose scenes. Attorneys general in all 50 states agree - passing Rep. Sensenbrenner’s and Sen. Johnson’s SOFA Act in Congress is vital to the front line law enforcement fighting the opioid epidemic every day.” Senator Johnson: “The scourge of addiction and overdose deaths has devastated thousands of American families, including my own. The widespread introduction of fentanyl and its analogues into illicit drug markets has resulted in skyrocketing overdose rates throughout the country. The SOFA Act will give law enforcement important new tools to curb the supply of illicit fentanyl and close legal loopholes that have allowed criminal drug manufacturers and traffickers to stay one step ahead of the law. I appreciate the support of Attorney General Schimel and such a broad bipartisan collection of Attorneys General for this important bill. I join them in urging Congressional leadership to pass the SOFA Act as soon as possible.” Resources: You can read more about the SOFA Act here. You can read the text of H.R. 4922 here. You can find a list of cosponsors here. You can read the full text of the National Association of Attorneys General letter below: August 23, 2018 Dear Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McConnell, Minority Leader Pelosi, and Minority Leader Schumer: We, the undersigned Attorneys General, write to express our support for swift passage of the Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues (SOFA) Act. There is little doubt that the nation’s ongoing battle against heroin and opiates is unlike any other public health emergency. It touches all corners of our society. States and localities are on the front line of this crisis and are a large part of winning the battle from both a law enforcement and public health perspective. We are grateful for the steps that Congress has taken to assist our states, including passing the International Narcotics Trafficking Emergency Response by Detecting Incoming Contraband with Technology (INTERDICT) Act earlier this year. Unfortunately, as states have taken measures on a local level to solve this crisis, a new front has emerged in the form of trafficking in fentanyl and fentanyl analogues. As you are probably aware, fentanyl is a synthetic opioid that is used to treat late-stage cancer patients. Sadly, fentanyl and its analogues have made their way onto our streets with alarming regularity and overdose deaths related to fentanyl now surpass deaths related to heroin. These troubling facts were expressed in detail recently in a May 8, 2018, hearing in the House of Representatives Judiciary Committee entitled, “Challenges and Solutions in the Opioid Abuse Crisis.” The SOFA Act will eliminate the current loophole which keeps the controlled substance scheduling system one step behind those who manufacture fentanyl analogues and then introduce these fentanyl analogues into the opioid supply. In short, the SOFA Act utilizes catch-all language which will allow the Drug Enforcement Administration to proactively schedule all newly modified fentanyl analogues and thus will assist law enforcement’s efforts on the front end. The SOFA Act unplugs the entire fentanyl machine in the first instance by making fentanyl analogues illegal as soon as they are manufactured, which occurs most often abroad in countries without adequate controls. While there remains much work to be done on all levels of government to address the opioid crisis, we urge Congress to act expeditiously and pass this important piece of legislation. Very truly yours, George JepsenConnecticut Attorney General Brad D. Schimel Wisconsin Attorney General Steve MarshallAlabama Attorney General Jahna Lindemuth Alaska Attorney General Mark Brnovich Arizona Attorney General Leslie Rutledge Arkansas Attorney General Xavier BecerraCalifornia Attorney General Cynthia H. Coffman Colorado Attorney General Matthew P. DennDelaware Attorney General Karl A. Racine District of Columbia Attorney General Pamela Jo BondiFlorida Attorney General Christopher M. Carr Georgia Attorney General Russell A. Suzuki Hawaii Attorney General Lawrence Wasden Idaho Attorney General Lisa Madigan Illinois Attorney General Curtis T. Hill, Jr. Indiana Attorney General Tom MillerIowa Attorney General Derek Schmidt Kansas Attorney General Andy Beshear Kentucky Attorney General Jeff Landry Louisiana Attorney General Janet Mills Maine Attorney General Brian Frosh Maryland Attorney General Maura Healey Massachusetts Attorney General Bill Schuette Michigan Attorney General Lori Swanson Minnesota Attorney General Jim Hood Mississippi Attorney General Josh HawleyMissouri Attorney General Tim Fox Montana Attorney General Douglas Peterson Nebraska Attorney General Adam Paul Laxalt Nevada Attorney General Gordon MacDonald New Hampshire Attorney General Gurbir S. GrewaNew Jersey Attorney General Hector Balderas New Mexico Attorney General Barbara D. Underwood New York Attorney General Josh Stein North Carolina Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem North Dakota Attorney General Mike DeWine Ohio Attorney General Mike Hunter Oklahoma Attorney General Ellen F. RosenblumOregon Attorney General Josh Shapiro Pennsylvania Attorney General Wanda Vàzquez Garced Puerto Rico Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin Rhode Island Attorney General Alan Wilson South Carolina Attorney General Marty J. Jackley South Dakota Attorney General Herbert H. Slatery III Tennessee Attorney General Ken Paxton Texas Attorney General Sean Reyes T.J. Donovan Utah Attorney General T.J. Donovan Vermont Attorney General Mark R. HerringVirginia Attorney General Robert W. Ferguson Washington Attorney General Patrick Morrisey West Virginia Attorney General Peter K. Michael Wyoming Attorney General
07.23.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, the House unanimously passed Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner’s (WI-05) Private Property Rights Protection Act (H.R. 1689). The bill addresses the controversial Supreme Court decision in the 2005 case Kelo v. City of New London, which expanded the eminent domain power granted by the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution. In Kelo, the Court ruled that “economic development” can be justified as a “public use” under the Constitution’s Takings Clause. To combat this expansion of power, H.R. 1689 would make any state or locality that uses the economic development justification for eminent domain ineligible from receiving federal economic development funds for two years. This creates a major incentive for governments to respect the private property rights of its citizens. Additionally, the legislation bars the federal government from exercising eminent domain powers for the purposes of economic development. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “This bipartisan legislation restores the individual private property rights guaranteed in the Fifth Amendment. The framers of the Constitution would be horrified by the paradigm created by Kelo:a government free to seize and transfer private property from individuals with fewer resources to private entities with more. I’m grateful to my colleagues for their support of this bill and urge the Senate to immediately send it to the President’s desk.” Congressman Sensenbrenner offered the follow remarks on the House floor: “Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that the House is considering H.R. 1689, the Private Property Rights Protection Act. My bill aims to restore the property rights of all Americans that the Supreme Court took away in 2005. The Founders of our country recognized the importance of an individual’s right to personal property when they drafted the Constitution. The Fifth Amendment states “nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.” In Kelo v. the City of New London, the Supreme Court decided that “economic development” could be a “public use” under the Fifth Amendment’s Takings Clause. In a 5-4 decision, the Court held that the government could take private property from an owner, in this case Susette Kelo, to help a corporation or private developer, in this case Pfizer. The now infamous Kelo decision created a massive backlash. As former Justice O’Connor stated, “The government now has license to transfer property from those with fewer resources to those with more. The Founders cannot have intended this perverse result.” Even in the 13 years since Kelo, polls show that Americans overwhelmingly oppose property being taken and transferred to another private owner, even if it is for the public economic good. The Private Property Rights Protection Act is needed to restore to all Americans the property rights the Supreme Court invalidated. Although several states have since passed legislation to limit their power to eminent domain, and a number of supreme courts have barred the practice under their state constitutions, these laws exist on a varying degree. H.R. 1689 would prohibit state and local governments that receive federal economic development funds from using economic development as a justification for taking property from one person and giving to another private entity. Any state or local government that violates this prohibition will be ineligible to receive federal economic development funds for two years. The protection of property rights is one of the most important tenets of our government. I am mindful of the long history of eminent domain abuses, particularly in low-income and often predominantly minority neighborhoods, and the need to stop it. I am also mindful of the reasons we should allow the government to take the lead when the way in which the land is being used constitutes an immediate threat to public health and safety. I believe this bill accomplishes both goals. I urge my colleagues to join me in protecting private property rights for all Americans and limiting the dangerous effects of the Kelo decision on the most vulnerable in society. I reserve the balance of my time.”
07.16.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) issued the following statement: Rep. Sensenbrenner: “The U.S. Intelligence Community is right — Russia tried to meddle in our 2016 elections. Unfortunately, this isn’t unprecedented as Russia has been attempting to interfere with our nation’s elections since the Cold War. What is clear is Vladimir Putin is not our friend and any diplomacy involving Russia must acknowledge that fact. I am confident, however, that the Department of Homeland Security is working diligently to secure our upcoming midterm elections.”
07.13.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) announced his co-sponsorship of a resolution supporting Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents. The resolution was introduced by Congressman Clay Higgins (LA-03), a veteran and former law enforcement officer. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “The brave men and women who serve at Immigration and Customs Enforcement should be lauded for their difficult work and supported by all. It is unconscionable that members of the political left continue to denigrate these hard-working individuals who risk their lives to keep us safe and enforce our laws.” You can read the full text of the resolution here.
07.10.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) released the following statement after President Trump nominated Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court: Rep. Sensenbrenner: “Judge Kavanaugh is an excellent choice for the United States Supreme Court. Throughout his impressive career, he has consistently demonstrated his commitment to upholding the Constitution as our Founders intended. I have full confidence that, when confirmed by the Senate, Judge Kavanaugh will continue to serve our nation honorably.”
07.03.2018	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) was named by Speaker Paul Ryan to serve as an outside conferee to negotiate compromises between the House and Senate versions of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2019. As a conferee, Congressman Sensenbrenner will represent the House Judiciary Committee in negotiations where the two chambers will reconcile differences between the two versions of the legislation. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “We must ensure the brave men and women in our military have adequate funding to accomplish their missions as safely and efficiently as possible. I’m honored to be chosen to serve on this conference committee, and I look forward to producing legislation that meets the needs of our military and spends the taxpayer dollars wisely.” Procedural Background: Often, when the House and Senate pass similar versions of significant legislation, such as the National Defense Authorization Act, the two chambers will convene a conference committee where representatives from each chamber will negotiate a single bill. After the conference committee produces a final bill, known as a “conference report,” both chambers will consider that legislation. Should both chambers both pass the conference report, it will head to the President’s desk.
06.22.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) offered the following statement after voting for H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act: Rep. Sensenbrenner: “This comprehensive legislation advances our bipartisan effort to end the opioid epidemic and restore hope to families and communities suffering from this public health crisis. I’m proud of our work and urge my colleagues to take the next step and pass my Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues (SOFA) Act to specifically target the proliferation of fentanyl analogues, which, along with other synthetic opioids, have become the most common cause of overdose-related death.” More than 150 patient advocacy groups support H.R. 6. You can view the full list here. H.R. 6 contains the following bills: Sec 101. – H.R. 1925, the At-Risk Youth Medicaid Protection Act Sec 102. – H.R. 4998, the Health Insurance for Former Foster Youth Act Sec 103. – H.R. 5477, the Rural DOCS Act Sec 104. – H.R. 5808, the Medicaid Pharmaceutical Home Act of 2018 Sec 105. – H.R. 5799, the Medicaid DRUG Improvement Act Sec 106. – H.R. 5789, To amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicaid coverage protections for pregnant and post-partum women while receiving inpatient treatment for a substance use disorder, and for other purposes Sec 107. – H.R. 5810, the Medicaid Health HOME Act Sec 201. – H.R. 5603, the Access to Telehealth Services for Opioid Use Disorders Act Sec 202. – H.R. 5809, the Postoperative Opioid Prevention Act of 2018 Sec 203. – H.R. 5798, the Opioid Screening and Chronic Pain Management Alternatives for Seniors Act Sec 204. – H.R. 5804, the Post-Surgical Injections as an Opioid Alternative Act Sec 205. – H.R. 3528, the Every Prescription Conveyed Securely Act Act Sec 206. – H.R. 5675, To amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require prescription drug plan sponsors under the Medicare program to establish drug management programs for at-risk beneficiaries Sec 207. – H.R. 5776, the MOST Act Sec 301. – H.R. 5806, the 21st Century Tools for Pain and Addiction Treatment Act Sec 302. – H.R. 5580, the STOP Fentanyl Deaths Act Sec 303. – H.R. 3692, the Addiction Treatment Access Improvement Act of 2017 Sec. 5001 – H.R. 5583, to amend title XI of the Social Security Act to require states to annually report on certain adult health quality measures, and for other purposes Sec. 5011, 5012 – H.R. 5800, the Medicaid IMD ADDITIONAL INFO Act Sec. 5021, 5022 – H.R. 3192, the CHIP Mental Health Parity Act Sec. 5031, 5032 – H.R. 4005, the Medicaid Reentry Act Sec. 5041, 5042 – H.R. 5801, the Medicaid PARTNERSHIP Act Sec. 6001 – H.R. 3331, To amend title XI of the Social Security Act to promote testing of incentive payments for behavioral health providers for adoption and use of certified electronic health record technology Sec. 6011, 6012 – H.R. 5582, the Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018 Sec. 6021, 6022 – H.R. 5685, the Medicare Opioid Safety Education Act Sec. 6031, 6032 – H.R. 5590, the Opioid Addiction Action Plan Act Sec. 6041, 6042 – H.R. 5605, the Advancing High Quality Treatment for Opioid Use Disorders in Medicare Act Sec. 6051, 6052 – H.R. 5796, the REACH OUT Act of 2018 Sec. 6061, 6062, 6063, 6065, 6064 – H.R. 5773, the PASS Act of 2018 Sec. 6071, 6072 – H.R. 5723, the Expanding Oversight of Opioid Prescribing and Payment Act of 2018 Sec. 6081, 6082, 6083, 6084, 6085, 6086 – H.R. 6110, the Dr. Todd Graham Pain Management, Treatment, and Recovery Act of 2018 Sec. 6091, 6092, 6093, 6094, 6095 – H.R. 5774, the COACH Act of 2018 Sec. 6101, 6102 – H.R. 5676, the SENIOR Communities Protection Act of 2018 Sec. 6111, 6112, 6113, 6114 – H.R. 5775, the Providing Reliable Options for Patients and Educational Resources (PROPER) Act Sec. 7001, 7002 – H.R. 449, Synthetic Drug Awareness Act of 2017 Sec. 7011, 7012 – H.R. 4275, Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act Sec. 7021, 7022, 7023 – H.R. 4284, Indexing Narcotics, Fentanyl, and Opioids (INFO) Act of 2017 Sec. 7031, 7032 – H.R. 4684, the Ensuring Access to Quality Sober Living Act of 2017 Sec. 7041, 7042 – H.R. 5002, ACE Research Act Sec. 7051, 7052 – H.R. 5009, Jessie’s Law Sec. 7061, 7062 – H.R. 5041, Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act Sec. 7071 – H.R. 5102, Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act of 2018 Sec. 7081, 7082 – H.R. 5176, Preventing Overdoses While in Emergency Rooms (POWER) Act of 2018 Sec. 7091, 7092 – H.R. 5197, Alternatives to Opioids (ALTO) in the Emergency Department Act Sec. 7101, 7102, 7103, 7104, 7105, 7106 – H.R. 5228, the Stop Counterfeit Drugs by Regulating and Enhancing Enforcement Now (SCREEN) Act Sec. 7111, 7112 – H.R. 5261, TEACH to Combat Addiction Act of 2018 Sec. 7121 – H.R. 5272, a bill to ensure that programs and activities that are funded by a grant, cooperative agreement, loan, or loan guarantee from the Department of Health and Human Services, and whose purpose is to prevent or treat a mental health or substance use disorder, are evidence-based Sec. 7131, 7132 – H.R. 5327, Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act 2018 Sec. 7141, 7142, 7143, 7144 – H.R. 5329, the Poison Center Network Enhancement Act of 2018 Sec. 7151, 7152 – H.R. 5353, Eliminating Opioid-Related Infectious Diseases Act of 2018 Sec. 7161, 7162 – H.R. 5473, the Better Pain Management Through Better Data Act of 2018 Sec. 7171, 7172 – H.R. 5483, Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act of 2018 Sec. 7181, 7182 – H.R. 5587, the Peer Support Communities of Recovery Act Sec. 7191, 7192, 7193, 7194 – H.R. 5752, the Stop Illicit Drug Importation Act of 2018 Sec. 7201, 7202, 7203 – H.R. 5812, the Creating Opportunities that Necessitate New and Enhanced Connections That Improve Opioid Navigation Strategies (CONNECTIONS) Act Sec. 7211, 7212 – H.R. 5687, the SOUND Disposal and Packaging Act Sec. 7221 – H.R. 5811, to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to post approval study requirements for certain controlled substances, and for other purposes Sec. 8001, 8002, 8003, 8004, 8005, 8006, 8007, 8008, 8009 – H.R. 5788, the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act of 2018 Sec. 8011, 8012 - H.R. 5889, the Recognizing Early Childhood Trauma Related to Substance Abuse Act of 2018 Sec. 8021, 8022 – H.R. 5890, the Assisting States’ Implementation of Plans of Safe Care Act Sec. 8031, 8032 – H.R. 5891, the Improving the Federal Response to Families Impacted by Substance Use Disorder Act Sec. 8041 – H.R. 5892, to establish an Advisory Committee on Opioids and the Workplace to advise the Secretary of Labor on actions the Department of Labor can take to address the impact of opioid abuse on the workplace Sec. 8051, 8052 – H.R. 2147, the Veterans Treatment Court Improvement Act of 2018 Sec. 8061 – H.R. 4635, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the number of peer-to-peer counselors providing counseling for women veterans, and for other purposes Sec. 8071, 8072 – H.R. 5294, the Treating Barriers to Prosperity Act of 2018 Sec. 8081, 8082, 8083, 8084 – House Amendment to S. 1091, the Supporting Grandparents Raising Grandchildren Sec. 8091, 8092 – H.R. 6029, the REGROUP Act of 2018 You can read more information about the SOFA Act here and review the bill text here.
06.21.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) offered the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court handed down a ruling in the case of South Dakota v. Wayfair: Rep. Sensenbrenner: “Today’s Supreme Court decision only highlights the urgency for Congress to take action to clarify these matters of interstate commerce. Failure to do so leaves American entrepreneurs and small businesses subject to taxation and regulation without representation. Congress should immediately pass my No Regulation Without Representation Act, which restores fairness and order to our nation’s e-commerce system.” You can read the Court’s decision here.
06.21.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) voted for H.R. 4760, the Securing America’s Future Act. Congressman Sensenbrenner, an original cosponsor of H.R. 4760, offered the following statement after the legislation failed in the House: Rep. Sensenbrenner: “Today, the House missed a golden opportunity to pass H.R. 4760, which included much-needed reforms like the mandatory use of E-Verify, end of chain migration, and increased border security. Our efforts would have also addressed the issue of family separations and provided a fix for DACA recipients — without granting amnesty. I’m disappointed by today’s results but remain committed to securing our porous borders and fixing our broken immigration system.” You can read the full text of the Securing America’s Future Act here.
06.15.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, the House passed the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) is a co-sponsor of the SITSA Act, which modernizes the Controlled Substance Act by adding a new schedule, Schedule A, to the five existing schedules. It also immediately schedules 13 known synthetic fentanyl compounds to the Schedule A list. In an effort to keep up with ever-evolving drug analogues, the bill would expand the U.S. Attorney General’s authority to add new substances to the Schedule A list as they are discovered. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “SITSA will help our drug enforcement agencies keep up with the constant development of new deadly street drugs, and I’m proud to cosponsor it. Its passage is a great step in addressing drug analogues that contribute to the opioid epidemic. Congress must build upon this momentum and pass my SOFA Act, which gives law enforcement even stronger tools to combat the opioid epidemic. I am committed to using every legislative tool at my disposal to win the fight against opioid abuse.” You can read the full text of the SITSA Act here and the SOFA Act here.
06.15.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) introduced legislation to address the shortage of qualified physicians. H.R. 6123, the Physician Visa Reform Act, clears the path for highly-trained foreign physicians to access temporary visas so they can practice in health professional shortage areas. Paired with changes to state law, H.R. 6123 will help residents of rural areas across Wisconsin access life-saving medical care. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “Every community should be served by well-trained medical staff. This legislation is a commonsense solution to the very real problem of doctor shortages that affects vulnerable populations across the country.” Problem: Our nation’s health care system is becoming increasingly strained due, in part, to a lack of qualified doctors. Each year, more physicians retire while fewer medical students graduate to fill the vacancies. As studies have shown, medical students frequently practice in the area where they completed their residency – often in large cities – because they lack strong incentives to move to a shortage area. Currently, federal law requires foreign physicians to complete a residency training program in the United States if they wish to practice here. While this policy is appropriate for younger, less experienced foreign doctors, it is unnecessary for highly-experienced and well-trained foreign physicians. For instance, a Canadian physician with 20 years of specialized experience treating cancer patients should not be required to complete the same residency program as a physician who recently graduated from medical school. This current policy is time-consuming, unnecessary, and a disincentive for foreign physicians to relocate to the US. Solution: H.R. 6123 would reform the current visa program to allow highly-trained physicians to live and practice in an area designated by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) as having a shortage of health care professionals for three years without having to complete a residency program. Notably, the legislation maintains states’ rights by allowing each state to maintain its own standards, requirements, and licensing board for physicians. In other words, when a foreign physician applies to work in a particular state, that state’s licensing board will determine, based on its own criteria, if the applicant is qualified and therefore eligible. Such criteria could include: the candidate’s country of origin, where the candidate graduated from medical school, how many years of experience the candidate has, if and what the physician’s specialty is, and other relevant information the state deems appropriate. Once a state determines that a physician is qualified, a visa may be granted through the same application process that is prescribed under current law. After three years of service in a shortage area, the physician may apply for permanent resident status after completing the National Board of Medical Examiners Examination (the test that all medical students must pass to graduate medical school and become fully licensed). Upon successful completion of the exam and approval from the Department of Homeland Security, the physician may remain in the U.S. and practice anywhere they are qualified and licensed. The full text of H.R. 6123, the Physician Visa Reform Act, is available here.
06.13.2018	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) offered the following statement after the House passed thirty-five bipartisan bills to combat the opioid crisis: Rep. Sensenbrenner: “We are taking action to restore hope to communities and families all across our nation devastated by the opioid epidemic. These bills provide real help for the millions of Americans who are struggling with addiction by providing additional treatment, increasing efforts that prevent people from becoming addicted, and ramping up enforcement to stop the flow of drugs into our neighborhoods.” The House passed the following bills this week: 1) H.R. 449 – Synthetic Drug Awareness Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Hakeem Jeffries / Energy and Commerce Committee) 2) H.R. 3331 – To amend title XI of the Social Security Act to promote testing of incentive payments for behavioral health providers for adoption and use of certified electronic health record technology, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Lynn Jenkins / Energy and Commerce Committee) 3) H.R. 4284 –Indexing Narcotics, Fentanyl, and Opioids (INFO) Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Bob Latta / Energy and Commerce Committee) 4) H.R. 4684 – Ensuring Access to Quality Sober Living Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Judy Chu / Energy and Commerce Committee) 5) H.R. 5002 – Advancing Cutting Edge (ACE) Research Act (Sponsored by Rep. Debbie Dingell / Energy and Commerce Committee) 6) H.R. 5009 – Jessie’s Law, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Tim Walberg / Energy and Commerce Committee) 7) H.R. 5041 – Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Tim Walberg / Energy and Commerce Committee) 8) H.R. 5102 – Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act of 2018 (Sponsored by Rep. Katherine Clark / Energy and Commerce Committee) 9) H.R. 5176 – Preventing Overdoses While in Emergency Rooms Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. David McKinley / Energy and Commerce Committee) 10) H.R. 5228 – Stop Counterfeit Drugs by Regulating and Enhancing Enforcement Now (SCREEN Act), as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Frank Pallone / Energy and Commerce Committee) 11) H.R. 5261 – Treatment, Education, and Community Help (TEACH) to Combat Addiction Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Bill Johnson / Energy and Commerce Committee) 12) H.R. 5272 – To ensure that programs and activities that are funded by a grant, cooperative agreement, loan, or loan guarantee from the Department of Health and Human Services, and whose purpose is to prevent or treat a mental health or substance use disorder, are evidence-based, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Steve Stivers / Energy and Commerce Committee) 13) H.R. 5327 – Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Brett Guthrie / Energy and Commerce Committee) 14) H.R. 5329 – Poison Center Network Enhancement Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Susan Brooks / Energy and Commerce Committee) 15) H.R. 5353 – Eliminating Opioid Related Infectious Diseases Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Leonard Lance / Energy and Commerce Committee) 16) H.R. 5473 – Better Pain Management Through Better Data Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Barbara Comstock / Energy and Commerce Committee) 17) H.R. 5483 – Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Buddy Carter / Energy and Commerce Committee) 18) H.R. 5582 – Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Buddy Carter / Energy and Commerce Committee) 19) H.R. 5583 – To amend title XI of the Social Security Act to require States to annually report on certain adult health quality measures, and for other purposes (Sponsored by Rep. Yvette Clarke / Energy and Commerce Committee) 20) H.R. 5587 – Peer Support Communities of Recovery Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Ben Ray Luján / Energy and Commerce Committee) 21) H.R. 5685 – Medicare Opioid Safety Education Act of 2018 (Sponsored by Rep. John Faso / Energy and Commerce Committee) 22) H.R. 5800 – Medicaid IMD ADDITIONAL INFO Act (Sponsored by Rep. Fred Upton / Energy and Commerce Committee) 23) H.R. 5812 – Creating Opportunities that Necessitate New and Enhanced Connections That Improve Opioid Navigation Strategies (CONNECTIONS) Act (Sponsored by Rep. Morgan Griffith / Energy and Commerce Committee) 24) S. 916 – Ensuring Patient Access to Substance Use Disorder Treatments Act of 2018 (Sponsored by Sen. Bill Cassidy / Energy and Commerce Committee) 25) H.R. 4275 – Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Mark DeSaulnier / Energy and Commerce Committee) 26) H.R. 5197 – Alternatives to Opioids (ALTO Act), as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Bill Pascrell / Energy and Commerce Committee) 27) H.R. 5294 – Treating Barriers to Prosperity Act of 2018 (Sponsored by Rep. Louis Barletta / Transportation and Infrastructure Committee) 28) H.R. 5752 – Stop Illicit Drug Importation Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Marsha Blackburn / Energy and Commerce Committee) 29) H.R. 6029 – Reauthorizing and Extending Grants for Recovery from Opioid Use Programs (REGROUP) Act of 2018 (Sponsored by Rep. Keith Rothfus / Judiciary Committee) 30) H.R. 5889 – Recognizing Early Childhood Trauma Related to Substance Abuse Act of 2018 (Sponsored by Rep. Dave Brat / Education and the Workforce Committee) 31) H.R. 5890 – Assisting States’ Implementation of Plans of Safe Care Act (Sponsored by Rep. Tom Garrett / Education and the Workforce Committee) 32) H.R. 5891 – Improving the Federal Response to Families Impacted by Substance Use Disorder Act (Sponsored by Rep. Glenn Grothman / Education and the Workforce Committee) 33) H.R. 5892 – To establish an Advisory Committee on Opioids and the Workplace to advise the Secretary of Labor on actions the Department of Labor can take to address the impact of opioid abuse on the workplace (Sponsored by Rep. Jason Lewis / Education and the Workforce Committee) 34) House Amendment to S. 1091 – Supporting Grandparents Raising Grandchildren Act (Sponsored by Sen. Susan Collins / Education and the Workforce Committee) 35) H.R. 2147 – Veterans Treatment Court Improvement Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Mike Coffman / Veterans Affairs Committee)
05.31.2018	Brookfield, WI — Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) is hosting a series of public town hall meetings beginning Sunday, June 3 in Hartford, WI. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “It is important for citizens to have the opportunity to raise concerns and ask questions directly to their elected representatives. After a successful spring full of town hall meetings, I’m pleased to announce my summer schedule, and I look forward to seeing everyone there.” Event Details: Hartford Town Hall Meeting Hartford City Hall 109 N. Main Street Hartford, WI 53027 Sunday, June 3 7:00pm This event is free and open to all constituents of Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District as well as members of the press. Constituents who are unable to attend are encouraged to share their feedback HERE. An up-to-date list of upcoming town hall meetings can be found HERE.
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) participated in a House Judiciary Committee hearing titled “Challenges and Solutions in the Opioid Abuse Crisis.” Among the expert panelists that testified before the committee were acting Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, Robert Patterson, and Dr. Timothy Westlake of Hartland, WI. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “In addition to treating addiction, empowering law enforcement agents to stop the proliferation of dangerous opioids and synthetic opioids, like fentanyl and its analogues, is an important step to ending the opioid epidemic. This hearing gave members of the committee an opportunity to hear directly from subject matter experts about the next steps Congress should take to combat this public health crisis, including my Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues Act. I’m grateful to all of the witnesses, especially Dr. Timothy Westlake, who has been instrumental in my work on this issue. His expertise and passion have proven invaluable as we try to end the scourge of the opioid epidemic.” Dr. Timothy Westlake is an emergency medicine physician at a practice based in Oconomowoc, WI. He serves on Wisconsin’s Medical Examining Board and Controlled Substances Board and has nearly 20 years of practice in southeastern Wisconsin. Dr. Westlake provided the following opening statement during the hearing: “In my role on the Wisconsin Medical Examining and Controlled Substance Boards, I became the physician architect of the state’s prescription opioid reform strategy and an expert on opioid scheduling. As an emergency physician on the front lines of the opioid battlefield for the past 20 years, I’ve witnessed more tragedy than I care to recall. Like you, I am laser focused on what can be done to stop the senseless loss of life. It’s why I am grateful for this opportunity to talk with you today and to share a legislative solution that’s actually working in Wisconsin right now. But first, a brief story about a young man named Archie Badura. Every Sunday, we sat next to Archie and his family in church, where he was an altar server alongside my daughters. Archie got hooked on marijuana first, then prescription opioid pills, heroin followed shortly, and eventually fentanyl – a tragically all too familiar slide. The last time I saw Archie alive, he was my patient in the ER. I had to resuscitate him with Narcan after he overdosed on fentanyl. Before discharging him, we pulled out a body bag, unzipped it, and pretended to fit him for it. It was a wake-up call. Archie became serious about getting clean and started following recovery principles. He told his family he was going to beat the odds and not end up in a body bag. He stayed drug-free for six months after this. Sadly, he eventually relapsed on fentanyl and died at age 19. His mom, my friend Lauri, vividly remembers Archie being zipped into a body bag – identical to the one she had seen me showing him months earlier. In his honor, Lauri founded SOFA – Saving Others For Archie – and now helps others who are desperately trying to help their loved ones. It is incontrovertible that the increased availability of prescription opioids has fueled the epidemic. As a medical regulator, I have spent countless hours working to identify and implement best practices. For starters, we need more judicious prescribing practices. We are doing this in Wisconsin – not with top-down mandates, but through education and partnerships within the medical community. In my written testimony, I provide more detail about the kind of cutting-edge Prescription Drug Monitoring Program reforms and educational reforms that we have put into place. The fact is that the lion’s share of medical regulation does and should occur at the state, medical licensing board, and health system levels. Where Congress can and has – and can continue to be helpful – is in law enforcement and in providing flexible funding to the states themselves to invest in communities where the dollars are most needed. When government intervenes too much, for example, with the development of the pain scale and pain as the fifth vital sign, there is too much room for unintended consequences. By far, the deadliest front in the opioid war is the danger posed by the creation of fentanyl-related substances. These deaths now surpass heroin deaths. The lethal dose of fentanyl is 2mg, which means that there could be enough fentanyl in this 4 lb box to kill more than 900,000 people – which would be more than the entire population of D.C. In fact, fentanyl variants and related substances are so deadly, they can be used – and are classified – as chemical weapons. These are not just drugs, they are actually considered weapons of mass destruction. The “bad” guys use loopholes in the existing scheduling laws to create new legal fentanyl variants. These untested chemicals are then produced – mostly in China – and introduced into the opioid supply. As our prescription opioid reforms take effect and the medical community returns to more judicious prescribing practices, the market for counterfeit pills will continue to explode. Most illicit opioid users have no idea what they’re consuming. With the advent of counterfeit pill production, they believe they’re ingesting a “safe” trade-name manufactured pill when actually it’s a fentanyl-related counterfeit substance. These pills can be alarmingly more strong than what they are purported to be, up to hundreds of times stronger. The singer Prince died from a counterfeit Vicodin pill ingestion that was actually fentanyl. During 2016, in one weekend, there were 12 deaths in Milwaukee from counterfeit pills that contained cyclopropyl fentanyl, which at the time was not controlled and could be bought legally on the Internet. We saw this coming in Wisconsin years ago. We worked closely with the DEA to get ahead of it. We created and enacted novel scheduling language now being modeled nationally. “Act 60” – or the SOFA Act (Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogs in homage to Saving Others For Archie). It controls, by structure, all likely and possible bioactive chemical fentanyl modifications. This novel, catch-all legislative language allows us to schedule proactively and not wait for loved ones to die before we can schedule each newly modified fentanyl variant. So instead of playing whack-a-mole with the variants as people die as we discover them, it unplugs the entire fentanyl machine. The week after Wisconsin enacted SOFA, the DEA published the identical scheduling language in the Federal Register as the method of federal temporary scheduling. Chemists around the world, and in China, must be paying attention because since that announcement six months ago, there have been no new fentanyl variants found. In the prior two years, there had found and scheduled 17 new fentanyls, representing hundreds of deaths. But the language needs to be written into the U.S. code, as the DEA Administrator said, for the best permanent scheduling solutions. Many thanks to Mr. Sensenbrenner and Senator Ron Johnson, who have the federal SOFA Act. Thank you for their leadership on that. When asked how often I see fentanyl overdoses, the answer is tragically far too often. The last shift I worked was two days ago – on Sunday. As I was preparing my testimony, I was interrupted to go resuscitate a fentanyl overdose. It’s for this reason, I urge you to pass legislation and make it so. Thank you for your time and consideration, and I look forward to answering any questions.” You can view Congressman Sensenbrenner’s question to acting Administrator Patterson here. You can read the full text of the SOFA Act here.
04.18.2018	Washington, D.C.—Yesterday, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) was recognized for his work on the Second Chance Act at a celebration marking ten years of success for the groundbreaking criminal justice reform legislation. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “In a time when our political climate is divided, criminal justice reform continues to gain wide-bipartisan support. I’m proud of my work on the original Second Chance Act, which has empowered hundreds of thousands of individuals to reenter society successfully. I’m grateful to accept this award and look forward to seeing this important legislation reauthorized this year.” The event took place during the Trump Administration’s Second Chance Month as Congress prepares to reauthorize the Second Chance Act. It was hosted by the Council of State Governments Justice Center, the Association of State Correctional Administrators, the National Association of Social Workers, the National Association of Counties, Prison Fellowship, and the Association of Prosecuting Attorneys. Background on the Second Chance Act and Second Chance Reauthorization Act: Congress passed the Second Chance Act with strong bipartisan support and President George W. Bush signed it into law in 2008. This legislation provides non-profit faith and community-based organizations with mentoring grants to develop support programs such as drug treatment, housing, job training, medical care, and education. Reentry services have been improved, which resulted in a reduction in recidivism and helped ensure a successful return to society for prisoners who have completed their sentence. More than 100,000 men, women, and youths returning home from prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities have benefited from Second Chance grants providing career training, mentoring, family-based substance abuse treatment, and other evidence-based reentry programs. This investment has also paid public safety dividends. A report from the National Reentry Resource Center highlights how numerous states have experienced drastic reductions in statewide recidivism rates as a result of robust reentry services made possible in part through Second Chance. Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI-05) and Danny Davis (D-IL-07) introduced the Second Chance Reauthorization Act to build upon the success of the original legislation. The bill authorizes funding for both public and private entities to evaluate and improve academic and vocational education for offenders in prison, jails, and juvenile facilities.
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) voted to establish a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The resolution failed to meet the two-thirds threshold necessary for passage. Congressman Sensenbrenner offered the following remarks during floor debate: “Mr. Speaker the reason we have a big deficit is not due to a lack of tax revenue. It’s due to the fact that Congress spends too much money. Now let me repeat that. The deficit and the debt are not caused by a lack of tax revenue. It’s because there is too much money that is authorized and spent right here in the Congress of the United States. This proposed constitutional amendment will give us the discipline that we have not had as we’ve sat and watched the deficit go up and up and up and away. It’s the responsibility of presidents of both political parties that this has happened. Maybe it is time for us to tell colleagues now and in the future and presidents now and in the future that the time to put things on the cuff is at an end. I would say that doing what we have done, which means spending money on ourselves and sending the bill plus interest to the next generations is bad economics, but it’s also immoral. Now I have a grandson who is a little bit more than a year old, and unless Congress stops doing this, he’s going to end up having a debt that will boggle the mind that he and his contemporaries are going to have difficulty meeting. So what do we need to do? Number one: We need to stop passing bloated omnibus bills, I voted no proudly on the omnibus bill, which busted the budget and added to the debt. We need to start getting honest about the fact that entitlement programs are spiraling out of control. That doesn’t mean cutting entitlement programs for existing people. It means slowing down their growth rate. But that’s something that nice people aren’t supposed to talk about, particularly here in Congress, but it’s something that is necessary if those entitlement programs are going to be worth anything for future generations when they may need them, rather than dealing with the present generation. Now I know we can all count up our votes, and people vote now, and we are not going to be running in the future but the time has come to think about the future. That is why this constitutional amendment ought to be passed. Congress can’t discipline itself. The only thing that can discipline us is saying what Congress can’t do in the United States Constitution just like the first and second amendments. I yield back.”
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) issued the following statement after House Speaker Paul Ryan announced that he will retire at the end of the 115th Congress: “Paul Ryan will leave an indelible mark upon this institution. I am honored to have served with him and blessed to call him my friend. I’ve had the privilege of knowing Paul and his family throughout his career — from first-time candidate and junior lawmaker, to vice presidential candidate and committee chairman, to his current role as Speaker of the House. I wish him the best and know that he looks forward to spending more time with his wife and kids.”
03.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Rand Paul, R-Ky., and Reps. Peter Welch, D-Vt., and Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., today rolled out legislation that would require the president to disclose the topline annual budget request to Congress from each of the 16 federal agencies conducting intelligence activities. Currently, spending levels for these federal intelligence agencies and activities is classified and hidden from the public. The Intelligence Budget Transparency Act would require the president’s annual budget request to make public the amount of funding budgeted for intelligence agencies and activities, creating greater transparency and oversight over how much is spent annually by the intelligence community. “By operating secret programs funded by secret budgets, our national intelligence agencies enjoy a blank check as far as the American taxpayers are concerned,” Wyden said. “With little to no public oversight, it is even more important that Americans have at least some sense of whether they’re getting what they paid for. Requiring the disclosure of these budget requests is the first step in achieving greater accountability and transparency of these agencies.” “Protecting our national security means keeping many things secret from our enemies, but Congress should not be the ones in the dark. Just as the military can provide budget information without jeopardizing our security, so too can the Intelligence Community. This bill would declassify the top-line budget number of each of our Intelligence Community entities, adding a level of much-needed transparency,” said Senator Paul. "The biggest threat to the success of any federal program is a combination of unlimited money and non-existent oversight. That's the situation Congress has allowed to develop in the critical work of intelligence gathering,” Welch said. “The top-line intelligence budgets for America's 16 intelligence agencies are unknown to the American taxpayer and largely unknown to the Members of Congress who represent them. It's led to dubious policies, wasted money and questionable effectiveness. Americans have a right to know how their tax dollars are being spent and that their national security interests are being well served.” “Properly funding our intelligence gathering agencies is critical to keeping Americans safe and secure. However, failure to disclose budgetary requests for these agencies does not meet the most basic government transparency standards,” Sensenbrenner said. “By declassifying the top-line budgets of each agency, this bill expands accountability to make certain taxpayer dollars are spent effectively while still protecting national security.” The bill would require disclosure of funding requests from the following agencies: Air Force Intelligence, Army Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency, Coast Guard Intelligence, Defense Intelligence Agency, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Treasury, Drug Enforcement Administration, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Marine Corps Intelligence, National Geospatial Intelligence Agency, National Reconnaissance Office, National Security Agency, Department of State, and Navy Intelligence. ###
03.01.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, on a bipartisan vote of 388 to 25, the House of Representatives passed the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (FOSTA), which Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) co-sponsored. FOSTA creates a new federal statute with increased penalties for sex traffickers online. It also amends the Communications Decency Act to permit local and state prosecutions of offending websites. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “This bill puts victims of online sex trafficking first. It will shut down websites that profit from this abhorrent crime and send the criminals who run them to jail. It is important we let survivors of sex trafficking know they are not alone and justice will be served.” Specifically, FOSTA: Ensures that victims of sex trafficking are able to sue malicious websites that violate federal law regarding online sex trafficking Clarifies that section 230 of the Communications Decency Act does not grant immunity to websites that advertise, solicit, or facilitate online sex trafficking Creates a new federal statute that allows law enforcement to prosecute websites that have the intent to promote or facilitate illegal prostitution Increases penalties that prosecutors can seek against websites that promote the illegal prostitution of 5 or more persons Gives state and local authorities the ability to enforce the new sex trafficking statutes
02.16.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05), along with all other members of the Wisconsin Congressional delegation, sent a letter of support to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross regarding an effort to combat imbalanced trade incentives and protect jobs in Wisconsin. Specifically, the request was made by the Port of Milwaukee on behalf of Quad/Graphics, which employs 7,700 Wisconsin residents and is headquartered in Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “Quad/Graphics provides thousands of family-sustaining jobs across Wisconsin, including many in my district. It’s important that we correct these perverse trade incentives that would put family’s livelihoods in jeopardy. I’m proud that our congressional delegation can come together in support of these hardworking individuals.” The full text of the letter is available below: February 16, 2018 The Honorable Wilbur L. Ross, Jr. SecretaryU.S. Department of Commerce1401 Constitution Avenue NWWashington, DC 20230 RE: Foreign Trade Zone 41, Port of Milwaukee - Subzone Request, Docket Number: B-001-2018 Dear Secretary Ross: We are pleased to write to you today to support the application (“application”) for a Foreign Trade Zone Subzone (“FTZ”) request by the Port of Milwaukee (ID #41-O). The request is on behalf of Quad/Graphics - Chemical Research\Technology related to the importation of pigments necessary for the manufacture of commercial publication inks. Quad/Graphics, Inc. (“Quad”) and its wholly owned subsidiary, Chemical Research\Technology (“CR\T”) is a large commercial printer that operates 57 printing facilities across 25 states and employs nearly 20,000 people throughout the United States. In Wisconsin alone, Quad provides family-supporting jobs to more than 7,700 people. Quad manufactures ink at the proposed site in Wisconsin for the sole purpose of supplying ink to the other Quad printing facilities throughout the United States. As part of the ink manufacturing operations, the company employs 165 people at four locations across the country, 84 of whom are employed at the Hartford, Wisconsin CR\T facility. On a yearly basis, Quad will consume 250 million pounds of ink, which equates to more than 10 million pounds of pigment/flush demand. Quad faces significant challenges in procuring the necessary raw materials from the domestic marketplace. Due in large part to the consolidating nature of the printing industry, the domestic supply of production ink pigments is also consolidating and in many cases production has moved to overseas markets. This has resulted in limited production capacities and insufficient pigment supplies for particular pigments in the United States. It is Quad’s strong preference to buy the pigments used to manufacture its publication inks from domestic suppliers. However, given the current market conditions, Quad has no other option but to import the required raw materials from foreign countries in order to meet customer demand. Additionally, and importantly, the current tariff structure has created unintended incentives. Currently, the import duty on the pigments specified in the application is 6.5 percent, while the import duty for finished ink is only 1.8 percent. This nearly five percent difference creates a perverse incentive for Quad to move ink production outside U.S. borders and import the finished ink, which is assessed at the lower duty rates, rather than import the raw materials and then manufacture the ink domestically with U.S. employees. Quad and CR\T are both committed to maintaining their ink manufacturing within United States borders, but due to the domestic supply issues and increased costs attributable to varying duty rates, the incentives are misplaced. In an effort to save American jobs, Quad has submitted this FTZ application in order to correct the perverse incentives and instead enable Quad to continue manufacturing ink within the United States. Approving this FTZ will ensure that these ink manufacturing jobs remain in the United States. Taking this action clearly serves the best interest of the local, state, and U.S. economies as it will assist Quad in its efforts to maintain its U.S.-based ink manufacturing operations and the employment base associated with those facilities. We all share the common priority of keeping and growing jobs in America. Supporting Quad by approving this application will help achieve this goal. Through this FTZ, Quad will be able to provide additional opportunities for economic development and job growth within its plants throughout the country. We ask that you give this request full and fair consideration, help us keep jobs in America, and move quickly to approve this Foreign Trade Zone Subzone – in a manner consistent with all laws, rules and regulations. We appreciate your consideration and attention to this request and look forward to working with you continue to support and grow jobs here in the United States. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. U.S. Representative Paul D. RyanSpeaker Ron Johnson U.S. Senator Tammy BaldwinU.S. Senator Ron Kind U.S. Representative Gwen MooreU.S. Representative Sean Duffy U.S. Representative Mark PocanU.S. Representative Glenn Grothman U.S. Representative Mike GallagherU.S. Representative ###
02.05.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05), introduced the Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues (SOFA) Act that will save lives by fighting the spread of fentanyl analogues. Specifically, the bill adds nineteen identified fentanyl analogues to the Schedule I drug list and provides the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) with the tools needed to quickly add other analogues as they are identified. Sensenbrenner: “With the opioid crisis tearing apart families across Wisconsin and the U.S., we must ramp up efforts to stop the proliferation of these drugs. This important legislation closes the loophole that allows these deadly drugs to continue pouring into our neighborhoods. It also provides law enforcement with the necessary tools to more effectively identify and schedule new fentanyl analogues. As Co-chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus, I will continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to end this epidemic.” Background on the SOFA Act: Fentanyl is currently classified as a Schedule II controlled substance used to treat cancer patients. However, it is dangerous and can be lethal outside of the careful supervision of a doctor. Fentanyl abuse is one of the leading contributors to the opioid epidemic. A new chemical compound, known as an analogue, is created by modifying one small piece of the chemical structure of fentanyl. These compounds fall into a legal loophole and contribute to the alarming rate of opioid-related deaths in the U.S. In fact, data from the Center for Disease Control (see below) indicates that synthetic opioids, which includes fentanyl and its analogues, are the leading cause of drug overdoses. Analogue producers are likely to continue developing new variations, and law enforcement agencies must have the tools to adapt to these changes. Under current law, DEA scheduling practices are reactive in nature. Typically, fentanyl analogues are only scheduled after they have resulted in deaths across multiples states. The SOFA Act closes the legal loophole by adding nineteen known fentanyl analogues to the Schedule I list. It also gives the DEA the authority to immediately schedule new fentanyl analogues as they are discovered, making enforcement and scheduling procedures more proactive. The bill shares the acronym of an organization started by Oconomowoc, WI resident Lauri Badura, who lost her son Archie to an overdose in 2014. Shortly after, she founded the faith-based non-profit Saving Others for Archie, Inc. to raise awareness and fight the opioid epidemic. Lauri recently attended President Trump’s first State of the Union address as the guest of Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI), who has introduced the Senate Version of SOFA. The full text of H.R. 4922, the Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues Act is available here. Note: Congressman Sensenbrenner and Senator Johnson’s bills differ in the number of fentanyl analogues immediately scheduled.
02.02.2018	Washington, DC—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) released the following statement after the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence made public a previously classified memorandum about potential abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA): Sensenbrenner: “Transparency is necessary for our system of checks and balances. I am glad that the American people can now read this memo for themselves. This document raises many questions and concerns about the intelligence community’s use of FISA and Congress’s oversight of those powers. As Congress continues to investigate this matter, it is important for the Executive Branch to be fully cooperative. The American people must know the facts surrounding the FBI and DOJ obtaining a FISA warrant and to what extent relevant information was purposefully withheld from FISC judges.” He added: “I have been a leader in the debate about safeguarding the rights of Americans against surveillance abuses by the government. While I am confident in the overwhelming majority of law enforcement agents, we must remain vigilant in protecting the privacy rights of Americans.”
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) released the following statement after President Trump gave his first State of the Union address: “In his first year, President Donald Trump has restored a sense of confidence in the American people. By reducing red tape and signing historic tax reform, the Trump Administration has helped unleash the economy and improve the financial outlook of many Americans. Tonight, in his speech, the President outlined a bold and optimistic vision for an even safer and more prosperous America — expanding on economic successes, rebuilding our military, and enacting criminal justice reform. I am also encouraged by the President’s call for renewed bipartisanship, as we must come together to continue restoring liberty, ensuring security, and increasing opportunity for all.”
01.24.2018	Brookfield, WI—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) is hosting a series of public town hall meetings beginning this Sunday, January 28 in Germantown, WI. In 2017, Congressman Sensenbrenner held more town hall meetings than any other member of Congress, and has held more than 600 in-person meetings since 2011. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “Town halls are a vital part of our representative government. I rely on direct feedback from my constituents, and look forward to another year of successful meetings. I hope to see everyone there.” Event details: Germantown Town Hall MeetingGermantown Village HallN112W17001 Mequon RdGermantown, WI 53002Sunday, January 28 at 7:00pm This event is free and open to all constituents of Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District as well as members of the press. Constituents who are unable to attend are encouraged to share their feedback HERE. An up-to-date list of upcoming Town Hall Meetings can be found HERE.
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) released the following statement after supporting H.R. 4712, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act: “All human life is sacred and deserving of legal protection, no matter how young or small. This legislation ensures that every child who survives an attempted abortion receives the same emergency medical treatment as any other newborn child. It also holds accountable any medical professional who neglects, or even worse, takes action to kill a child. I am proud to support it and will continue to defend all human life.” Background: In 2002, President George W. Bush signed the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act into law after it passed Congress unanimously. This law recognizes personhood for human children born alive. The 2002 law, however, did not provide any enforcement measures against medical practitioners who neglect survivors of attempted abortions. After a botched or failed procedure, the fate of these children is left up to the abortionist. All too often, such as in the case of late-term abortionist Kermit Gosnell, survivors of the brutal procedure are killed or left to die. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act requires healthcare practitioners to provide the same level of care to an abortion survivor as would be reasonably provided to any other child born at a similar stage of development. The bill also requires that a surviving child is immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. Medical practitioners who fail to meet the bill’s requirements face new criminal penalties. H.R. 4712 also gives women legal recourse against those who do not comply with the law.
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) signed a letter requesting that the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) release a classified memo to the public. According to reports, the four-page memo details the alleged abuse of programs created by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Sensenbrenner: “The Fourth Amendment is a right, not a recommendation. Just last week, Congress debated the merits of extending certain FISA authorities. Now, these reports raise concerns about what was omitted from that debate. The American people deserve to know the full extent of any surveillance abuses by the intelligence community. This memo should be released publicly so that we can begin to restore trust in government.”
01.09.2018	Brookfield, WI—Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner announced the nominations of students from Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District for appointments to the U.S. service academies. Rep. Sensenbrenner: “These students have exceptional records, strong character, and great potential. They deserve commendation for choosing to pursue a career of service to our nation as future military leaders. I congratulate them on this achievement and have full confidence that they will make their families, communities, and country proud.” He also offered: “I’d like to thank the volunteers on the Academy Selection Committee for all their time and efforts in selecting the most qualified candidates from an incredibly competitive field of applicants.” Nominees are designated as “principal” or “alternate.” Principal nominees who meet academic, physical, and medical standards set by each academy are guaranteed an appointment to that academy. Alternate nominees compete for available slots should any principal nominees choose not to accept or fail to qualify for their appointment. Additionally, alternate nominees are part of a pool of applicants from which the academies select the incoming class. The United States Merchant Marine Academy does not differentiate between principal and competing alternate nominations. This year, Congressman Sensenbrenner nominated thirty-four students, including four principal nominees. They are as follows: Principal Nominees: William Kitzhaber of Watertown has been named a principal nominee to attend the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. William, son of Peter and Michelle Kitzhaber, attends Watertown High School. Sophie Tasker of Elm Grove has been named a principal nominee to attend the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Sophie, daughter of Harold and Sibylle Tasker, attends Brookfield East High School. Michael Kahler of Brookfield has been named a principal nominee to attend the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Michael, son of Russell and Susan Kahler, attends Marquette University High School. Joseph Meier of Pewaukee has been named a principal nominee to attend the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Joseph, son of Frederick and Amy Meier, attends Arrowhead High School. Competing Alternate Nominees and United States Merchant Marine Academy Nominees: Jared Albrecht of Waukesha has been named a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Jared, son of Chad and Dawn Albrecht, attends the Kettle Moraine School for Arts and Performance. Sabrina Andringa of Waukesha has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Sabrina, daughter of Timothy and Robin Andringa, attends Waukesha South High School. Isaac Barta of New Berlin has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, and the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Isaac, son of Jeffrey and Melissa Barta, attends Catholic Memorial High School. August Beyer of Slinger has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. August, son of Paul and Julie Beyer, attends Slinger High School. Alexander Carter of Oconomowoc has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Alexander, son of Paul and Angelique Carter, attends Oconomowoc High School. Thomas Cullen of West Bend has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Thomas, son of Stephen and Sherry Cullen, attends Living Word Lutheran High School. Nicholas Frigerio of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Nicholas, son of Joe and Liz Frigerio, attends Lake Country Lutheran High School. Zachary Hastings of Hartland has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Zachary, son of Charles Hastings and Laura Lien, attends Arrowhead High School. Camille Herman of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Camille, daughter of Timothy Herman and Janet Perrie, attends Brookfield Central High School. Jonah Hestetune of Menomonee Falls has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Jonah, son of Marlon Hestetune and Jeanette Prince-Hestetune, attends Menomonee Falls High School. Andrew Hruz of Wauwatosa has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY and a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Andrew, son of Benjamin Hruz and Ann Torcivia-Hurz, attends Marquette University High School. Samantha Kruk of Menomonee Falls has been named a nominee to the Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Samantha, daughter of Mark and Kristin Kruk, attends Menomonee Falls High School. Abbey Lippold of Nashotah has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Abbey, daughter of James and Shannon Lippold, attends Arrowhead High School. Arianna Mansavage of Jefferson has been named a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Arianna, daughter of Michael and Rosemarie Mansavage, attends Fort Atkinson High School. Katya Miller of West Allis has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Katya, daughter of Dominic and Michelle Miller, attends West Allis Central High School. Troy Nachtigal of Fort Atkinson has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Troy, son of Terry and Julie Nachtigal, attends Fort Atkinson High School. Michael Naze of Oconomowoc has been named a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Michael, son of Scott and Richelle Naze, attends Catholic Memorial High School. Joseph Neimon of Delafield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Joseph, son of Michael and Kerry Neimon and graduate of Kettle Moraine High School, attends the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Joseph Nunez of Greenfield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Joseph, son of Edmund and Patricia Nunez, attends Marquette University High School. Emma Oleniczak of New Berlin has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Emma, daughter of Michael and Karin Oleniczak, attends New Berlin Eisenhower High School. Brandon Prevo of Delafield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY and a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Brandon, son of Tim Prevo and Amy SoHang Choi, attends St. John’s Northwestern Military Academy. Timothy Prevo of Delafield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY and a nominee the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Timothy, son of Tim Prevo and Amy SoHang Choi, attends St. John’s Northwestern Military Academy. John Reardon of Oconomowoc has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. John, son of Kevin and Christine Reardon, attends Mukwonago High School. Bret Scarpaci of West Allis has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Bret, son of James Scarpaci and Janet Dewey and graduate of Nathan Hale High School, attends Marquette University. Daniel Schulz of Brookfield has been named a nominee to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Daniel, son of Peter and Michelle Schulz, attends Brookfield East High School. Jessica Steger of Iron Ridge has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Jessica, daughter of Steve Steger and Kristine Kanitzer, attends West Bend East High School. Max Stergiades of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Max, son of Nicholas and Peggy Stergiades and graduate of Brookfield East High School, attends the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Bryce Texeira of Waukesha has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Bryce, son of David and Lisa Texeira, attends Waukesha West High School. Austin Walsh of West Bend has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Austin, son of Gary Walsh and Camie Williams-Walsh and graduate of Slinger High School, attends Iowa State University. Noah Zenker of Hartland has been named an alternate nominee to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Noah, son of Kurt and Natalie Vitchar Zenker, attends Arrowhead Union High School. Congressman Sensenbrenner is currently accepting applications for students seeking a nomination to attend a service academy in the fall of 2019. More information about the process can be found HERE. Additional questions can be directed to Congressman Sensenbrenner’s Brookfield office at (262) 784-1111.
12.19.2017	Washington, DC — Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) offered the following statement after voting to advance the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act: “This historic tax reform package is a great win for the American people. For the first time in a generation, there will be real relief for struggling families. Under Speaker Ryan’s leadership and his “Better Way Agenda”, we are focused on making our economy stronger and expanding opportunities for all Americans. Today’s action by Congress is a huge step toward relief from the burden of an over-reaching government. In fact, the average family of four in my district will see a $2,700 tax cut. Individuals, families, and businesses across Wisconsin and across the country are in a better place than they were yesterday.” He also offered, “We are at a turning point and I am pleased we have chosen to move forward in the name of the American people. This is about making things better for all Americans and I am proud to be part of it.” Background: The accompanying conference report to the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act reduces the tax rates on individuals and businesses, doubles the standard deduction, and preserves the mortgage interest deduction. It also maintains state and local tax deductions on property, income or sales taxes up to $10,000. Additionally, it expands both the Child Tax Credit and deductions for charitable donations. CLICK HERE to view more policy highlights of the conference report. CLICK HERE to view the full text of the conference report.
12.14.2017	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) sent a letter to United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt asking him to complete the agency’s statutory requirement for informing Congress of the Renewable Fuel Standard’s (RFS) impact on our environment. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As policymakers, we rely on updated data and analysis to make informed decisions. I welcome additional research into the RFS by the University of Wisconsin-Madison, as the EPA has done a poor job of informing Congress of any adverse environmental impacts of our national biofuels mandate.” The full text of the letter is available below: Dear Administrator Pruitt: Recently, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized its Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) volumes for 2018, proposing that 19.29 billion gallons of renewable fuel be blended in our fuel supply, with the lion’s share going to conventional biofuel. While a primary driver behind the RFS’s creation and expansion was to give the United States greater energy independence– an issue that has largely been addressed thanks to our domestic oil and natural gas renaissance – many of its congressional champions continue to tout its supposed environmental benefits, including its positive impact on reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions associated with climate change. A recent study published by the University of Wisconsin-Madison, however, questions the degree to which our biofuels mandate actually reduces carbon emissions. Their research found that the expansion of cropland that occurred from 2008-2012 resulted in the release of significant carbon deposits from the soil, and that these emissions were largely driven by the conversion of grasslands into land for crop production. This spike in land conversion coincided with enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which greatly expanded our biofuels mandate. The release of extra carbon is notable, as the greenhouse gas is a contributor to climate change. What’s more, due to its lower energy content, gasoline blended with ethanol get fewer miles per gallon than regular gas, meaning cars require more of it to travel the same distance, further hurting the claim that the RFS is environmentally friendly. Further analysis into biofuels from university researchers is not only welcomed, but needed, as EPA has not fulfilled its statutory obligation to inform Congress on the environmental and conservation impacts of the RFS and hasn’t completed a triannual congressional impact report since 2011. In addition, your agency never completed an anti-backsliding study to determine if our ethanol mandate negatively impacts air quality. As we approach 2022, when the statutory volume requirement for biofuels ends, it’s critical that policymakers have a complete picture of how the RFS affects not only our economy, but also our environment. With this in mind, please answer the following questions by January 31, 2018: I. Does the RFS increase the amount of carbon released into the atmosphere? II. Is EPA concerned by the amount of grasslands and forestlands that have been converted into cropland in recent years? III. Does EPA take into account the effects our biofuels mandate has on land and air quality – including carbon emissions – when determining annual renewable fuel volume obligations (RVOs)? If yes, how do the results impact your decision making? IV. Do I have your assurance that EPA will, as required, complete and send Congress an updated triannual congressional impact study on the RFS? If yes, when can it be expected? If no, why can’t it be completed? V. Do you think it would beneficial for EPA to complete an anti-backsliding air quality study before announcing future RVOs? If no, why not? VI. Do I have your assurance that EPA will, as required, send Congress an anti-backsliding air study on the RFS? If yes, when can it be expected? If no, why can’t it be completed? Thank you for your attention to this matter, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Member of Congress
12.12.2017	Washington, D.C.—During today’s House Judiciary Committee mark up, Crime Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) offered his support for H.R.1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017. Sensenbrenner is a cosponsor of the bill. His remarks as reflected in the record can be found here: “The Internet has been one of the greatest innovations in history. It has brought tremendous economic and social benefits to humankind. We can now accomplish nearly any transactions with just a few clicks of a mouse from the comfort of our own homes. It is undeniable, that, for all of us, it has made life easier. Unfortunately, the Internet has also made life easier for criminals, who can use the anonymity of the Web to mask their illicit activities and avoid detection by law enforcement. This is especially true in the realm of sex trafficking – one of the most horrific, insidious crimes you could imagine. Thanks to a group of committed, passionate professionals and brave victims, the problem of sex trafficking on the Internet is now receiving the attention it merits. We are all now well aware of the reprehensible and blatantly criminal conduct of the executives at Backpage.com. Because young victims have come forward to share their stories, we are aware of the harm caused by these types of websites, which are not only a venue for sex traffickers to sell young women, but also materially contribute to this illicit conduct. Backpage.com’s conduct also shed light on websites that are using the Communications Decency Act to shield themselves from liability for their illegal activities, which is something Congress never intended. For these reasons, I am pleased to be an cosponsor of H.R. 1865, the Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, also known as FOSTA. As amended, this legislation will provide law enforcement additional tools to combat websites like Backpage. The bill creates a new federal statute criminalizing the use or operation of an interstate facility with the intent to promote or facilitate prostitution or sex trafficking. The bill specifically amends Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act to make sure that state and local prosecutors can enforce any state law if the conduct underlying the charge constitutes a violation of the new crime. In addition, the bill amends Section 230 to make clear that state and local prosecutors can enforce state sex trafficking laws insofar as those charges would also constitute a violation of federal sex trafficking law. Finally, FOSTA will provide new mechanisms for financially compensating victims. Receiving compensation can serve as an acknowledgement of victimhood and help victims on their road to recovery. I commend Ms. Wagner and Committee staff for their thoughtful approach to this issue. This legislation is the culmination of months of hard work and shows that we can take measures to prevent online sex trafficking without undermining the foundations of internet freedom. I urge my colleagues to support it.” ###
12.08.2017	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) offered the following statement after the Department of Justice confirmed its ongoing investigation into the alleged sale of human fetal tissue by a major abortion provider in America: “It is heartbreaking and disgusting that anyone would profit from sale of innocent unborn human body parts. The Department of Justice is right to open this investigation at the referral of both the Senate Judiciary Committee and the House Select Investigative Panel on Infant Lives.” In February, Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced the Safe RESEARCH Act (H.R. 1203) to prohibit the sale of fetal tissue acquired by abortion. Specifically, the Safe RESEARCH Act amends Section 498A of the Public Health Act to only permit human fetal tissue research to be conducted with tissue obtained as a result of a stillbirth or ectopic pregnancy. The text of the Safe RESEARCH Act is available here.
12.06.2017	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI-05), along with Congressmen Mike Gallagher (R-WI-08) and Sean Duffy (R-WI-07), sent a letter detailing 2018 Farm Bill policy priorities to House Agriculture Chairman Mike Conaway. Specifically, the letter calls for reforms to the Dairy Margin Protection Program, which provides producers with payments when dairy margins are below the margin coverage levels. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Americans across the heartland play a vital role in supplying our nation with fresh milk and other important agricultural products. As we begin crafting the upcoming Farm Bill, I will push to ensure programs, like the MPP-Dairy, are updated to become more responsive to the needs of Wisconsin dairy farmers. As a longtime supporter of the agricultural industry, I remain committed to working with my colleagues to see these issues addressed in the final legislation.” Congressman Gallagher: “For too long hardworking farmers in Northeast Wisconsin and across the country have been paying into a program that does not give them the results they need. As Congress begins to debate the upcoming Farm Bill, I will work with my colleagues to improve the MPP-Dairy program so that it is effective in meeting the challenges farmers face in an increasingly volatile market.” The full text is available below: Dear Chairman Conaway: As members who represent Wisconsin’s vast dairy industry, we thank you for your early start to the 2018 Farm Bill process and we are grateful for your efforts to complete the bill on time. We appreciate your steadfast advocacy for rural America and your commitment to reforming dairy policy in the new Farm Bill. As you know, Wisconsin is the second largest milk-producing state and is home to more dairy farms than any other in the nation. Wisconsin’s roughly 9,500 family-owned dairy farms, totaling well over 1 million cows, produce roughly 14 percent of the U.S. milk supply each year. These farmers are the lifeblood of our communities and the fresh milk they produce supports many jobs in the agricultural and food manufacturing sectors of our state. The dairy industry in Wisconsin and nationwide has faced significant struggles in recent years. Our current trade challenges with Canada are particularly acute in ‘America’s Dairyland’, a major manufacturer of ultrafiltered milk, and our producers continue to struggle with labor costs and challenges. Moreover, milk prices deteriorated significantly last year, causing dairy farmers added pain during an already challenging climate. With this in mind, a top priority for us in the Farm Bill is reforming the Margin Protection Program for Dairy (MPP-Dairy). While the program is fairly new, it has not performed to the expectations of our dairy farmers. In 2015 and 2016, the first two years of the program, dairy producers paid millions of dollars into the program but received very little return on this investment, even though last year was a very difficult year for our dairy farmers by all accounts. Therefore, we look forward to working with you to improve MPP-Dairy to make it more responsive to farmers. We understand that the program's current feed cost formula does not fully reflect producer costs, so we are interested in improving the program to better reflect the margins producers face to provide them a viable safety net in the difficult years. We are also urging the U.S. Department of Agriculture to classify milk as a commodity under the federal crop insurance program, to provide producers with additional risk management options. We recognize that there will be budgetary limitations in the Farm Bill process and we stand ready to work with you to craft a Farm Bill that supports all of rural America. We appreciate your consideration and we are eager to work with you. Sincerely, Mike Gallagher Member of Congress Sean Duffy Member of Congress F. James Sensenbrenner Member of Congress # # #
12.06.2017	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) voted for H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, which passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 231 to 198. Contained in the bill was language from the Fix NICS Act, which adds enforcement measures to ensure that federal agencies provide the most accurate data to the National Instant Background Check System. Congressman Sensenbrenner gave the following remarks on the House floor: \ I am pleased that H.R. 38, as amended, includes the Fix NICS Act. I have long supported the National Instant Check System, or NICS. NICS is about saving lives and protecting people from harm—by preventing guns from falling into the wrong hands. It does this without interfering in the timely transfer of firearms to eligible gun buyers. I was an original cosponsor of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993, and worked diligently for its passage. I strongly supported this bill because it makes sense to prevent convicted felons, and individuals judged to be mentally ill, from obtaining guns. At the time of negotiations, I insisted on the inclusion of a NICS program. Under this system, firearm dealers use the FBI's NICS system to cross-reference with a list of known convicted felons, drug users, illegal aliens, and those convicted of domestic violence. As I have stated many times, the NICS system is only as good as the records that are put into it. Too often, people who otherwise would not pass a background check can slip through the cracks and buy guns. After the recent shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas, the U.S. Air Force disclosed that it failed to report the gunman’s history of domestic assault to the database, which should have prevented him from purchasing a firearm in the first place. This legislation will provide a much needed push to speed implementation of the NICS system used in conducting instant background checks prior to gun purchases. At the federal level, it would require federal agency cooperation in providing relevant records to the Attorney General for inclusion into the NICS. It holds federal agencies accountable if they fail to upload relevant records to the background check system through public reporting and prohibiting bonus pay for political appointees. At the state level, it will incentivize them to make sure their reporting is up-to-date by giving federal grant preferences to states who comply. Let me be clear, this bill is not about expanding background checks. This is about ensuring that existing law is working. There is strong bipartisan support for improving what has become a systemic problem of missing information in the database. Accurate reporting is essential to ensuring the system works as intended. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. You can read the full text of H.R. 38 HERE.
12.05.2017	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) announced that Christopher Krepich will serve as his Press Secretary following the departure of former Communications Director Nicole Tieman. Tieman, who had been a part of Sensenbrenner’s staff for more than two years, is now the Press Secretary for Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA). Krepich joins the Sensenbrenner office following two and a half years as a member of Congressman Keith Rothfus’ (R-PA) staff, most recently serving as Deputy Press Secretary. He got his start on Capitol Hill in 2015 working as an intern for Congressman Sean Duffy (R-WI). # # #
12.04.2017	Washington, D.C.—Today, the House of Representatives voted to form a Conference Committee to resolve differences between the House and Senate tax reform bills. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) offered the following statement after supporting the motion to go to conference: “Americans deserve to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks and are counting on Congress to create a 21st century tax system that facilitates job creation and economic growth. Today’s vote brings us another giant step closer to doing just that. I look forward to working with my colleagues to bring much-needed tax relief to families and businesses across Wisconsin and the nation.” # # #
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent a letter to the Acting Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services Eric Hargan asking what steps his agency is taking to address the skyrocketing health insurance premiums across the country. Dear Acting Secretary Hargan: On November 1, open enrollment in the federally-run health care exchanges began in Wisconsin. Across the state, thousands of Wisconsinites found that the cost of health insurance had risen substantially. The average increase in the cost of premiums was 36 percent across the state, while the cost of silver plans had risen by 40 percent from the previous year. My constituents are obviously concerned about this dramatic increase, with many contacting me on this issue. Many have asked what Congress and the administration are doing to try to combat these ever-rising premiums. With the American Health Care Act and other significant health care reform efforts stalling, I am requesting the following information from the Department of Health and Human Services. What steps is the agency taking to mitigate current and future premium increases? What suggestions would the agency make to states that are preparing Sec. 1332 innovation waivers to lower premiums? What specific suggestions would the agency make to Wisconsin? What legislative steps can Congress take in the near term to prevent substantial increases in the coming years My constituents, along with all Americans, are demanding that their government take action to finally reform our nation’s health care system. It is our responsibility to help the health care system innovate and evolve to bring about the quality and affordable care the American people deserve.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sensenbrenner (R-Wis) released the following statement on the passage of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act in the House of Representatives: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today's passage of the House Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is a historic moment in delivering tax relief across the country. It is a significant step forward in ensuring hardworking American families will keep more of their own money. I applaud the tenacity and leadership of Speaker Ryan and look forward to its progression through the legislative process.”
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced a bill aimed at reforming the CyberTipline Reporting Requirements. The bill will provide much needed updates to better reflect the current operations of the CyberTipline and the process of sending, receiving, and handling the millions of reports expected each year. The CyberTipline was first launched in 1998 by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC). The CyberTipline provides the public and the technology industry with the ability to report online (and via toll-free telephone) instances of child sexual exploitation including child pornography, online enticement of children for sexual acts, child sex tourism, and child sex trafficking. The initial statute was last updated in 2008. The CyberTipline Modernization Act will continue the initial work of the NCMEC by adding updated provisions to ensure the protection and safety of reports citing suspected exploitation. This common sense bill makes clear the requirements NCMEC and providers must follow in order to ensure these crucial protections are not needlessly subjected to outdated government regulations. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The modernization of this bill would be a significant step forward in the fight to reduce the sexual exploitation of children online. It’s imperative we improve safety standards so we can be actively engaged in preventing the victimization of children and efficiently process and investigate all reports of child sexual abuse.”
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced a bill aimed at encouraging the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to temporarily waive requirements to sell reformulated gasoline (RFG) in covered jurisdictions due to excessively high gas prices. Currently, EPA’s temporary RFG waiver authority is tailored to address price spikes when there is a disruption in fuel supply, and does not specifically respond to the disparity in cost between RFG and conventional gasoline. Since the 1990s, portions of Wisconsin, including large swaths of the Fifth Congressional District, have been required to purchase RFG, which is, and has been, more expensive to purchase than conventional gas. Under the bill, Governors may seek a renewable six-week waiver from the EPA for the sale of RFG in a portion of their state where its sale is currently mandated. In deciding whether to grant the waiver, the EPA would compare the price of reformulated gasoline to the price of conventional, and evaluate other factors the agency deems appropriate. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As Wisconsinites are well aware, the price of gasoline is volatile, and the price at the pump can spike for a multitude of reasons, including global demand and geopolitical issues. I have been an advocate for consumer relief from burdensome fuel regulations for many years. This legislation simply provides temporary relief from the sale of more expensive gasoline based on the economic interests of citizens.”
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) delivered the following remarks during the House Judiciary Committee’s markup of H.R. 3989, the USA Liberty Act of 2017. Watch the statement here. See the full transcript below: Congress created Section 702 authority to address an intelligence-collection gap that resulted from changes in technology in the years after FISA became law in 1978. Section 702 permits the government to conduct targeted surveillance of foreign individuals reasonably believed to be located outside the United States. This statute is necessary because a significant share of the world’s communications passes through the United States, even when they begin and end overseas. Section 702 has been described as one of the most efficient and vital programs to protect our national security. The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB) similarly found that “the information the program collects has been valuable and effective in protecting the nation’s security and producing useful foreign intelligence. This is not to say that reforms aren’t needed. Section 702 surveillance programs incidentally collect information about U.S. persons. Reforms are needed to better safeguard Americans’ civil liberties and new protections and transparency requirements are needed to ensure that the government’s use of Section 702 aligns with principles of privacy and due process. I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Uniting and Strengthening American (USA Liberty) Act of 2017. This carefully crafted, bipartisan legislation represents the type of common sense compromise that our country needs and deserves. It balances privacy and security by requiring greater oversight, transparency, and accountability of the government’s surveillance powers while limiting the incidental collection of Americans’ communications and requiring a court order to query data. It also puts in place a six-year sunset provision, allowing Congress to reexamine the legislation as our society – and everything that threatens it – continues to evolve. The legislation makes several other key changes: ending so-called “about” collection, creating a presumption that a court-appointed expert will be present in annual recertification hearings before the FISA court, additional whistleblower protections and increased penalties for knowingly mishandling classified information. While some have advocated for a clean and permanent reauthorization of Section 702, I believe this would amount to dereliction of duty by Congress, and it would hinder its ability to respond to the changing demands of a technological world. By maintaining FISA sunsets, lawmakers are able to review actions taken by government agencies and ensure that citizens’ constitutional rights are being upheld, as well as make any necessary reforms to the law. The USA Liberty Act will bring much needed reform on how the federal government collects information gathering for foreign intelligence, counterterrorism, and criminal purposes. The legislation builds off of the success of the USA Freedom Act by finding the appropriate balance between privacy and national security. I thank the Chairman, Ranking Member Conyers and Ranking Subcommittee Chairwoman Jackson Lee for their hard work and I urge my colleagues to support the bill.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Taxpayers in Wisconsin and throughout the nation deserve a fairer tax code that will allow them to keep more of their hard-earned money and keep American businesses here on our shores. That’s exactly what the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will do. I am proud of the leadership displayed by Chairman Brady and Speaker Ryan on this historic piece of legislation, and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress to bring tax relief for all Americans, and finally deliver on our promise to stimulate and grow our national economy.”
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) wrapped up his 2017 town hall meeting schedule over the weekend, bringing his total number of in-person town hall meetings this year to 115. Congressman Sensenbrenner regularly holds in-person town hall meetings in 49 unique communities throughout his district. He averages three visits per community each year and approximately 100 total meetings annually – more in-person meetings than any other Member of Congress. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Holding town hall meetings is not only important for the sake of democracy, but its invaluable to me as I work to best represent the interests of my district. I believe that good policy requires input from both sides of the aisle, and continuing open discussions on the problems we face will enable us as a nation to find real solutions. “Town hall meetings can be difficult; however, they’re vitally important. People deserve to have their voices heard in the halls of Congress, but that can’t happen unless they’re first heard by their representatives. For this reason, I will continue to frequently hold town halls for as long as I have the privilege of serving the people of Wisconsin’s Fifth District as their representative.” Fast Facts Congressman Sensenbrenner… held 115 in-person town hall meetings in 2017 visited 49 unique Wisconsin communities throughout his district averages 3 visits per community each year doesn’t pre-screen town hall meeting questions from constituents has held nearly 700 in-person town hall meetings since 2012 What They’re Saying “The year’s not over, but Ron Wyden and Jim Sensenbrenner are far ahead of the competition (combined 150+ town halls) for 2017 Town Hall MVPs.” – Town Hall Project “Proud of my Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner for his unmatched dedication to district town halls.” – Fifth District Constituent “Thank you for setting an example for your colleagues.” – Town Hall Project “Many were grateful Rep. Sensenbrenner came as other Congressman avoid their citizens. ‘We respect that so much about him,’ – Fifth District Constituent “We love Rep. Sensenbrenner’s dedication to traveling all over his district. He held 3 town halls this weekend, and has 7 more this month!” – Town Hall Project “He’s been very helpful, and he does a fantastic job. I’m always amazed at his memory; he knows all these facts and figures. I give him a lot of credit.” – Fifth District Constituent “He’s listening to people… He’s honest in stating his views [although they] may not agree with many of the people who come.”— Fifth District Constituent “[Congressman Sensenbrenner] strikes me as a little more personable; I actually found some common ground here and there.”— Fifth District Constituent “I’ve disagreed with you often over the years and I ran against you in 2014, but I always respected you for the way you have conducted yourself in office, constituent service, and because you maintain your reasonable level of respect for voting rights and civil liberties.” – Fifth District Constituent Town Hall Headlines of 2017 Sensenbrenner embraces town halls despite protests – The Washington Examiner “Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., is hosting a series of town hall meetings at a break-neck pace, even as many of his Republican colleagues are avoiding in-person, open forum meetings because of a unified, anti-President Trump push from the left." Wyden, Sensenbrenner lead February town halls – The Hill “Two longtime members of Congress spent the month of February answering questions from their constituents, even as loud protests over the Affordable Care Act led other members to cancel their own in-person events.” Jim Sensenbrenner holds feisty town hall – Milwaukee Journal Sentinel “Some politicians are wary of holding contentious town hall meetings. But not U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, the dean of the Wisconsin delegation. Have Gavel, Will Travel – Roll Call “Wisconsin Republican Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, who has held the most town halls this year, said he’s heard anger from constituents throughout his nearly four decades in the House. And his approach to dealing with it has been consistent. The 20-term congressman has prioritized doing town hall events since he first came to Congress in 1979. “Sensenbrenner said his constituents should know he’s still with them.” GOP lawmakers lead way in holding town halls – The Hill “Since the beginning of the 114th Congress in 2015, four Republicans – Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (Wis.), Sens. Mike Crap (Idaho) and Jerry Moran (Kan.) and former Rep. Tim Huelskamp (Kan.) – held more than 100 in-person town hall meetings.” U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner holds civil town hall in Pewaukee as others turn hostile – Milwaukee Journal Sentinel “Sensenbrenner… routinely holds more town halls each year than nearly all members of Congress…” Constituents pack Pewaukee town hall meeting, present a number of concerns – WTMJ Milwaukee “Jane Speer went on to say she isn’t necessarily in favor of many of the congressman’s policies, but she appreciates the town hall platform he’s provided for citizens to voice their concerns, even if they disagree.” Town halls are in the spotlight, but are they effective in communicating with lawmakers? – USA Today Network-Wisconsin “Sensenbrenner and Kind held the most town halls in the months following the 2016 election, according to their offices. From November 2016 through May 2017, Sensenbrenner held 75 town halls while Kind held 13.” Congressman Sensenbrenner Holds Town Halls in Wisconsin – CBS Milwaukee “Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner is spending the weekend in Wisconsin. He's listening to the concerns of the people he represents.” The left prepares ‘Indivisible’ playbook for Sensenbrenner town hall – Watchdog.org “When U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner holds the latest in a long line of town hall meetings Monday evening in Wauwatosa, the usual suspects will most likely be in attendance. The Menomonee Falls Republican has hosted more constituent events than just about any other member of Congress this town hall season…” “Be respectful!” U.S. Rep. Sensenbrenner’s crowded town hall events feature heated exchanges – Fox6 Milwaukee “Sensenbrenner, a 38-year veteran of Congress, noted that he had been holding town halls since President Jimmy Carter was in the White House. Sensenbrenner has held the second-most town hall meetings of any congressman since the start of 2014, according to the website Legistorm.” Lawmakers cutting back town halls this month – Politico “POLITICO focused its analysis on the number of lawmakers holding events to gauge members’ interest in holding town halls as the year progresses. Some lawmakers still hold multiple public meetings each recess – Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) has scheduled 79 town halls so far this year…” Jim Sensenbrenner to host town hall meetings in Hartford and Elm Grove – Milwaukee Journal Sentinel “Sensenbrenner frequently hosts town hall meetings throughout his district to give constituents an opportunity to share their views on issues Congress is working on…” Sensenbrenner says there has to be “vigorous debate and vigorous compromise” on health care policy – Fox6 Milwaukee “Respect was the number one rule after a recent heated round of town hall meetings held by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner.” “There has to be a vigorous debate and vigorous compromise,” Sensenbrenner said.”
10.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC: Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the passing of Wisconsin Congressman Jerry Kleczka: Congressman Sensenbrenner: "Congressman Jerry Kleczka was first and foremost a public servant. He fought his entire career for his beliefs and cared deeply for his district and for the state of Wisconsin. Although we often disagreed on policy, it was an honor to serve with someone so committed to making life better for his constituents. He will be missed my many."
10.04.2017	BROOKFIELD, WI – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the passing of Wisconsin State Representative Bob Gannon: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Bob was an ardent and unapologetic conservative who never shied away from a tough conversation and who always stood up for his principles. He was a fighter who continually held himself accountable to his constituents and was always transparent about his beliefs. He worked every day to make his district, and the state of Wisconsin, a better place, and it was an honor to work beside him as we traveled our districts together for town hall meetings. His presence will be missed, but he will never be forgotten.”
09.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Taxpayers Union (NTU) honored Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner with its “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” for his strong voting record on supporting lower taxes, limited government, and economic freedom. Sensenbrenner has received this award every year since he came to Congress and is one of only 15 total House Members to receive it for their outstanding voting record during the 2016 congressional session. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I have worked my entire career to help lower taxes and reduce onerous government regulations on businesses because ensuring our country has a thriving economic environment in which bureaucratic overreaches are put in check is critical to our success here in Wisconsin and throughout the nation. “I want to thank the National Taxpayers Union for this recognition and for their ongoing work to hold Members of Congress accountable. I also want to assure my constituents that I will continue to work on behalf of comprehensive tax reform and initiatives that will promote economic freedom and growth.” NTU has recognized Members of Congress since 1979 who annually earn high voting scores to qualify them for the “Taxpayers’ Friend Award.” See NTU’s full 2016 congressional scorecard and further analysis here.
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner submitted the following statement to the congressional record in recognition of Dr. Kenneth K. Lee, a combat-injured Operation Iraqi Freedom and Army veteran. Lee, a native of Brookfield, WI, was named the 2017 Outstanding Disabled Veteran of the Year by the Disabled American Veterans (DAV). Photo courtesy of DAV (Disabled American Veterans) Full text provided below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Dr. Kenneth K. Lee, a combat-injured Operation Iraqi Freedom and Army veteran, who has been named by Disabled American Veterans (DAV) as its 2017 Outstanding Disabled Veteran of the Year. Dr. Lee, who deployed as the commander of the Army's Company B, 118th Area Support Medical Battalion, was injured in November 2004 by a suicide car bomber in Iraq. The explosion resulted in an open head traumatic brain injury and severe shrapnel wounds to his legs, leading to his evacuation back to the states, where he would later be diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. While recovering from his injuries, Dr. Lee, a rehabilitation specialist, saw how long and difficult recovery could be, often leaving lasting changes. Dr. Lee, who resides in Brookfield, Wisconsin, is a volunteer physician at the National Disabled Veterans Winter Sports Clinic, which the Department of Veterans Affairs and DAV co-host, so he was no stranger to using adaptive sports as therapy. Through his own recovery, Dr. Lee propelled himself into the world of adaptive sports to help him deal with the psychological and physiological effects that can often times cause an individual to hit bottom. Within a year of Dr. Lee's retirement in 2013, he formed the Milwaukee Wheelchair Lacrosse team and is now the president of the Wisconsin Adaptive Sports Association, which runs numerous adaptive sports programs. On July 29, 2017, DAV National Commander David W. Riley presented Dr. Lee with the Outstanding Disabled Veteran of the Year award at the organization's 96th National Convention. In his statement, Riley praised Dr. Lee as a shining example of everything that is good about our nation and its veterans. He noted that the compassion Dr. Lee shows for other veterans and his work to help them find success is truly the hallmark of the award, and DAV is very proud of what he's doing for this community. Given the importance and therapeutic effectiveness of adaptive sports, it is vital to have experienced leaders like Dr. Lee involved and carving out a path forward. Despite his injuries and the constant pain in his lower extremities, Dr. Lee speaks with gratitude about his time in the Army. He will tell you that he got a lot more from the Guard than he put into it, and that he joined the military with his eyes wide open and has no regrets. Dr. Lee and his wife Kate currently live in Brookfield with their two children. In 2014, his daughter Leah earned a $10,000 scholarship by volunteering for the DAV at the Milwaukee VA Medical Center. On the same day that Dr. Lee was honored as DAV's Outstanding Disabled Veteran of the Year, his son Jonathan earned the charity's largest scholarship of $20,000, and was honored the same morning. They both hope ultimately to serve veterans as physicians through the VA. You can view the statement online here.
09.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the anniversary of the terror attacks of September 11, 2001: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Sixteen years ago, radical terrorists attacked our nation and killed thousands of our fellow Americans. The devastating repercussions of September 11, 2001 are still felt, but from tragedy rose strength, compassion for our fellow man, and a bond that washed away our differences and united us all as American citizens. Today, we continue to mourn the lives lost and pray for their families and friends who are struggling, and support our service men and women who answered the call of duty in defense of our nation. We unite in remembrance and move forward together because that is the American way.”
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) released its 7th annual “No-Brainers” list, which highlights common sense, bipartisan legislation that solves real problems facing the American taxpayer. Among the 10 bills highlighted is H.R.2887, the No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2017. Introduced by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner earlier this year, the No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2017 would codify the principle that businesses must be physically present in a state before it is lawful to tax or regulate them. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Over-taxation and regulatory burdens weigh heavy on American businesses. These practices prohibit economic growth, stunt hiring, and make it harder for businesses to expand. My bill helps alleviate these burdens by reducing overregulation and keeping government overreaches in check. I want to thank the National Taxpayers Union for highlighting this legislation, which would be a strong ally of small businesses and the American taxpayer.” In addition to the National Taxpayers Union, the No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2017 is supported by: Council for Citizens Against Government Waste; Net-Choice; National Taxpayers Union; Software Finance and Tax Executives Council; Overstock; Electronic Retailing Association; Americans for Tax Reform; American Catalog Mailers Association.
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding the end of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The Obama administration overstepped its authority when it enacted the DACA program. I believe the proper way to address our nation’s immigration policy is through the legislative process. It is important that we get our immigration laws right. “The complex challenges faced by DACA beneficiaries will not be solved overnight, and they certainly won’t be solved by executive order. When the Democrats controlled both Houses of Congress, former Speaker Nancy Pelosi was unable to solve the immigration problem unilaterally. This led to the Obama administration’s DACA program, which Obama himself said was temporary. “The President has given Congress six months to act, and I believe that we must not only take serious action to address the complicated issues surrounding the DACA program, but also border security and enforcement of our laws. Nothing will be done without compromise from both sides of the immigration debate. “Moving forward, I will continue to work with my congressional colleagues to enact long-term immigration reform through the legislative process, which does not give amnesty to illegal immigrants.”
08.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement in support of Speaker Paul Ryan’s efforts in Wisconsin and nationwide: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “During a town hall meeting in Racine, Speaker Ryan reiterated to his constituents last night – and the entire nation – his commitment to finding solutions for America’s most pressing issues, as well as his dedication to working cohesively across Congress in order to make our nation better for all Americans. “From his first day in office to his rise to the Speakership, Paul has remained earnest, hard-working, and driven to help people. His determination to enact serious legislation, such as reforming our broken tax and health care systems, as well as protect our national security and advocate on behalf of our nation’s most vulnerable, is inspiring and serves as a constant reminder of why Members of Congress are sent to Washington in the first place – to serve the people. “I’m eager to continue working with the Speaker to help the people of Wisconsin and our country, and move forward on smart, common sense legislation that will help keep America strong and prosperous for generations to come.”
08.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner issued the following statement upon the signing of the Rapid DNA Act of 2017 into law: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The passage of the Rapid DNA Act will help law enforcement carry out their duties more quickly, efficiently, and accurately. This revolutionary technology will help identify arrestees and offenders, reduce the overwhelming backlog in forensic DNA analysis, and streamline crime fighting efforts while helping to prevent future crimes from occurring, saving time and taxpayer dollars in the process. I’m thankful to President Trump, as well as my colleagues in the House and Senate, for moving forward on this common sense legislation, which will help millions of Americans nationwide.” The Rapid DNA Act would establish a system for the integration of Rapid DNA instruments for use by law enforcement to help reduce the DNA backlog. Unlike traditional DNA analysis, which can take weeks, Rapid DNA analysis permits processing of DNA samples in approximately 90 minutes or less. This technology has the potential to revolutionize the way in which arrested individuals are enrolled in the criminal justice system, shorten the time required for their DNA to be linked to unsolved crimes, and expedite the exoneration of innocent suspects by giving law enforcement officials a new system that meets FBI quality assurance standards to compare DNA samples collected at the time of an arrest to profiles in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS).
08.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding the horrific acts of violence perpetrated in Charlottesville, Virginia. Congressman Sensenbrenner: "What happened in Charlottesville goes against the principles of this nation and everything I've worked for during my time in Congress. The freedoms given in this country should never be abused to incite violence or spread hate and prejudice. It's my hope that as Americans, we can all come together to denounce bigotry in all its forms."
08.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and John Conyers (D-Mich.) sent the following letter to United States Attorney General Jeff Sessions to express concerns and objections to his proposal to expand the Department of Justice’s civil asset forfeiture program. The letter also urges AG Sessions to reconsider his newly-announced policies. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Expanding the federal civil asset forfeiture program is a step in the wrong direction and I urge Attorney General Sessions and his Department of Justice to reconsider. I am a supporter of criminal asset forfeiture – the seizure of property after the conviction of crime—but with civil asset forfeiture, law enforcement has a direct economic incentive to take people’s property without ever even charging them with a crime. We need to add more due process to forfeiture proceedings. Expanding forfeiture without increasing protections is, in my view, unconstitutional and wrong.” Congressman Conyers: “I am deeply disappointed by the Justice Department’s recent move to reverse its ban on adoptive seizures. The prior policy, which was instituted in January of 2015, greatly curtailed this practice, which provides financial incentives for law enforcement to seize the property – including the homes – of individuals who may not even be guilty of a crime. I call on Senator Sessions to withdraw the new policy, which is contrary to the growing bipartisan effort to reform our civil forfeiture laws and practices. Indeed, the time has come for Congress to enact the DUE PROCESS Act, a bipartisan bill to significantly alter these laws and increase protections for innocent property owners.” Full text provided below: Dear Attorney General Sessions: We write to express strong objections to your decision to reverse the Department of Justice’s policies curtailing adoptive seizures. Under this process, state and local law enforcement can receive up to 80 percent of forfeiture proceeds for simply transferring seized property to federal authorities to pursue forfeiture under federal law. This practice has been criticized as a “bounty” system because it perversely incentivizes state and local law enforcement to seize the property of individuals who may not even be guilty of a crime. Furthermore, in states that restrict civil forfeiture, the policy raises serious federalism concerns by allowing state law enforcement to pursue forfeiture in circumvention of protections provided by state law. The prior policy issued in January 2015 substantially curtailed adoptive forfeitures. In announcing your decision to reverse these reforms, you claimed to implement “safeguards.” None of these steps, however, will provide any meaningful degree of protection against abuse. The first two steps outlined in the Policy Directive issued by the Criminal Division’s Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section, concerning review of seizures and probable cause determinations, are merely internal assessments that make us no more comfortable with adoptive seizures than we were prior to their curtailment three years ago. Curiously, the third step would provide additional limitations on certain adoptions, but only for cases of less than or equal to $10,000 – reflecting your decision that higher-dollar cases are somehow less deserving of protections against abuse. In any event, even this degree of protection for the lower dollar cases is largely illusory as the Policy Directive provides that a federal prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney’s Office may simply waive the additional procedures in individual cases. Lastly, the Policy Directive admonishes that the Department should “proceed with particular caution” in seeking the forfeiture of people’s homes if they were “not implicated in criminal conduct.” We cannot emphasize enough how stunningly inappropriate and brazen it is for the Department to engage in such a practice. That officials charged with the responsibility of protecting the rights of our citizens would contemplate taking personal residences of innocent homeowners underscores our lack of faith in the discretion to be exercised by Department officials in the prior three “safeguards.” Civil forfeiture, at the federal level and also through adoptive seizures, requires significant reform if is to continue at all. It has become increasingly apparent that the procedures in federal law governing civil forfeiture are fundamentally inadequate. Forfeiture reform has long been a bipartisan issue, raising serious concerns about fairness and due process on both sides of the aisle. Congress last enacted reform to these laws in 2000, under the Civil Asset Forfeiture Reform Act, sponsored by the late Representative Henry Hyde. We have learned much since passage of that law and have introduced bipartisan legislation, entitled the DUE PROCESS Act, to responsibly increase procedural protection for innocent owners. We should be reforming civil forfeiture, not expanding it. Therefore, while we pursue legislation on this issue, we ask that you withdraw the newly-announced changes to the Department’s adoptive seizure policies. Although we believe this new policy should be rescinded, we would like additional information concerning the rationale for some of its provisions and your plans to implement them. As discussed above, the Department’s Policy Directive admonishes that the Department should “proceed with particular caution” in the forfeiture of people’s homes if the owners’ were “not implicated in criminal conduct.” What additional oversight does the Department propose to protect innocent homeowners from seizure of their homes? In what circumstances would the Department consider it appropriate to seize a person’s home when that person is not implicated in any criminal conduct? Does the Department advise any particular caution for seizure of a person’s home based on relatively minor criminal conduct? The Department’s policy would appear to allow federal adoptions in violation of state law. If law enforcement is operating in a state that has banned forfeiture, does the Department consider it appropriate for law enforcement to rely on federal law in circumvention of the laws of their state?\ . Would the Department consider federal adoption of a state forfeiture appropriate if the forfeiture were based on simple possession of marijuana in a state that has legalized the drug? Why did the Department propose safeguards exclusively on adoptions valued at less than $10,000? Are higher value forfeitures worthy of less protection? Does this incentivize law enforcement to seize higher value property? Please reply with written answers to these questions by August 15, 2017. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress John Conyers, Jr. Member of Congress
08.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the devastating news that Molina Healthcare will be dropping out of the Obamacare Exchanges: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The announcement that Molina Healthcare will be dropping out of the Obamacare exchanges isn’t a surprise, but it certainly is disastrous for the more than 50,000 of Wisconsinites who may be left with no health care options under Obamacare. “This is the latest development in a string of devastating health care losses for Wisconsin under Obamacare – an ill-fated law that has been a failure since its passage. It’s imperative for the health of our nation for Congress to find real solutions to the intensifying problems caused by Obamacare. The House of Representatives passed smart, patient-centered repeal and replace legislation – the Senate must do the same for the sake of all Americans. ”
08.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Rapid DNA Act, introduced by Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and passed in the House of Representatives with bipartisan support earlier this year, has passed in the Senate and now heads to President Donald Trump to be signed into law. The Rapid DNA Act would establish a system for the integration of Rapid DNA instruments for use by law enforcement to help reduce the DNA backlog. Unlike traditional DNA analysis, which can take weeks, Rapid DNA analysis permits processing of DNA samples in approximately 90 minutes or less. This technology has the potential to revolutionize the way in which arrested individuals are enrolled in the criminal justice system, shorten the time required for their DNA to be linked to unsolved crimes, and expedite the exoneration of innocent suspects by giving law enforcement officials a new system that meets FBI quality assurance standards to compare DNA samples collected at the time of an arrest to profiles in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Rapid DNA is a promising new technology and an effective tool for law enforcement – I’m thrilled to see its final passage in the Senate. This technology will help quickly identify arrestees and offenders, reduce the overwhelming backlog in forensic DNA analysis, and make crime fighting efforts more efficient while helping to prevent future crimes from occurring. It will also save time and taxpayer dollars. I look forward to President Trump promptly signing it into law.”
08.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on health insurance companies across the country looking to increase Obamacare premiums: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Unfortunately today we’re seeing further evidence of the failures of Obamacare. Across the country, health insurers are looking to once again increase premiums by as much as 30 percent, putting added pressure on millions of Americans who cannot afford it. “Wisconsin is not immune from these increases. Molina Healthcare of Wisconsin is proposing an increase ranging from 30 to 46 percent for its member plans. Increases like these will be devastating for Wisconsinites who are not eligible for Obamacare subsidies. “Earlier this year, the House of Representatives passed a smart, patient-centered repeal and replace plan that would make health insurance better and more affordable. It’s my hope that Congress can move forward to find real solutions that will finally put an end to skyrocketing prices and provide the quality care that Americans need and deserve.”
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) announced that Loni Hagerup, Sensenbrenner’s deputy chief of staff, and Matt Bisenius, director of legislative affairs at the National Propane Gas Association, will serve as co-chiefs of staff beginning in August. The news comes after the announcement that current Chief of Staff Bart Forsyth has accepted a new position with the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). “Working on Capitol Hill is an unparalleled opportunity to do good and make a difference in people’s lives. In Henry Hyde and Jim Sensenbrenner, I’ve had the distinct privilege of serving two historic Members of the House of Representatives,” said Forsyth. “I am deeply grateful to both of them for the opportunities they have given me. It is particularly hard to leave Congressman Sensenbrenner and his amazing staff, but I am excited to join a world-class team at PhRMA and to continue my work with the Hill on PhRMA’s behalf.” Forsyth served under Sensenbrenner in a number of capacities, including his work on the House Science Committee as investigative counsel, Sensenbrenner’s chief of staff on the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, his work on the House Judiciary Committee, and finally as Sensenbrenner’s chief of staff in his personal office. “It’s always difficult to part with talented members of staff, especially those who have served faithfully for many years,” said Sensenbrenner. “Bart has been a true asset as a trusted advisor, effective facilitator, and respected leader. I’m thankful for his distinguished service and wish him continued success as he begins this new chapter.” Stepping into the role of chief of staff are Sensenbrenner alumni Loni Hagerup and Matt Bisenius. Hagerup, a long-time Sensenbrenner staffer, began her political career in the Wisconsin State Assembly as a legislative aid before moving to Washington, D.C. to work for Sensenbrenner as his staff assistant in 1985. After serving in the Reagan administration, she returned to work with Sensenbrenner in Wisconsin in various roles as campaign manager, district director, and most recently deputy chief of staff. “I’m thrilled to continue my service with Congressman Sensenbrenner in this new role, although Bart’s absence will certainly be felt,” said Hagerup. “Team Sensenbrenner has benefitted immeasurably from his keen legal mind, sharp communication acumen, and adept people skills. Bart’s leadership has been exemplary and he will be missed.” Matt Bisenius rejoins Congressman Sensenbrenner’s staff from the National Propane Gas Association, where he currently serves as the director of legislative affairs. Matt joined NPGA in August 2014, and has managed several successful advocacy campaigns during his tenure. Prior to joining NPGA, Matt worked as the senior legislative assistant for Congressman Sensenbrenner. “I am excited for the opportunity to return to the Sensenbrenner office. The Congressman’s exceptional record of constituent service and legislative success greatly benefits Wisconsin’s Fifth District. I look forward to working with the staff to further support and expand the Congressman’s work.”
07.26.2017	Mr. Speaker, today I rise to recognize the 27th anniversary of the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Congress passed the ADA to break down the physical and societal barriers that kept disabled Americans from fully participating in the American Dream. From creating standards for wheelchair accessibility in places open to the public, to requiring 911 phone lines to be equipped to respond to hearing-impaired callers, the ADA has transformed the lives of millions of Americans. The progress we’ve made is remarkable, and I’m proud to have been part of these efforts. Throughout my career, I have seen few pieces of legislation that bring all people together as much as the ADA. Not only did this historic legislation pass both chambers with large bipartisan majorities, but the ADA Amendments Act passed unanimously in 2008. This legislation shows that Congress can come together to solve problems for the betterment of the American people. I proudly stand with the thousands of advocates who come to Washington D.C. this week to continue the fight for the rights of all Americans.
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, performing rights organizations (PROs) BMI and ASCAP announced they will be joining efforts to release a database for musical works and sound recordings. This announcement comes just six days after Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the Transparency in Music Licensing Ownership Act, which also aims to establish a comprehensive database for music and sound recordings through the Register of Copyrights. Despite claims from BMI and ASCAP that they have been working on this joint database for the past year, they have made no effort to cooperate with Members of Congress on the issue. Further, such a database would be incomplete due to the lack of participation from all PROs, meaning business owners across the country would continue to be plagued by the convoluted and difficult process of finding and purchasing the correct licenses to play and perform music in their establishments. There is an overwhelming atmosphere of mistrust between businesses and PROs, which is why it’s imperative that a publicly accessible database is established through the Register of Copyrights. Business owners and those seeking music licensing should have the ability to access a complete, easy-to-navigate system which will provide them peace of mind in knowing that they have the facts they need to make smart, legal purchasing decisions. A third party database will streamline and bring much-needed transparency to the process. Under the BMI and ASCAP initiative, businesses would still be subject to statutory damages – this is unacceptable and it’s a problem only Congress can solve. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “If BMI and ASCAP were serious about establishing a music database, not only would they have spoken to my office and other interested Members of Congress about their plans, but they would have also included their fellow PROs in the initiative. With their announcement today, they are grasping at straws; trying to maintain power over a failing process that only serves their interests, not those of the American consumer.” Some of the key provisions of Congressman Sensenbrenner’s Transparency in Music Licensing Ownership Act include: Require the Register of Copyrights to establish and maintain a current informational database of musical works and sound recordings while granting the Register authority to hire employees and contractors, promulgate regulations, and spend appropriated funds necessary and appropriate to carry out these functions Ensure that the database is made publicly accessible by the Copyright Office, in its entirety and without charge, and in a format that reflects current technological practices, and that is updated on a real-time basis Limit the remedies available to a copyright owner or authorized party to bring an infringement action for violation of the exclusive right to perform publicly, reproduce or distribute a musical work or sound recording if that owner/ authorized party has failed to provide or maintain the minimum information required in the database
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the Transparency in Music Licensing Ownership Act, which would establish an information database for musical works and sound recordings. Across the country, businesses and establishments play or perform music for the enjoyment of their patrons, but the process of ensuring they are legally able to do so, as well as those who hold the license to the music or recordings being played are fairly compensated, is convoluted and difficult. Because of this onerous process, business owners often struggle to obtain the correct licensing, leaving them vulnerable to lawsuits, as well as increased licensing fees. To address this problem, the House Judiciary Committee has spent several years examining the Copyright Act and its need for reform. After more than 20 hearings and an extensive open comment period, there is overwhelming support to modernize our copyright laws and make them easier to follow. This includes the adoption of new user-friendly technologies and instituting procedures to ensure transparency in music licensing. The Transparency in Music Licensing Ownership Act is a step forward in simplifying the process and helping business owners to identify copyright holders in one easy location to ensure they comply with licensing and payment requirements. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “When it comes to rules and regulations, simpler is always better. Streamlining the music licensing process into one, easily accessible database is a straightforward way to help our nation’s business owners while ensuring copyright owners are fairly compensated for their work.” Some of the key provisions of the Transparency in Music Licensing Ownership Act include: Require the Register of Copyrights to establish and maintain a current informational database of musical works and sound recordings while granting the Register authority to hire employees and contractors, promulgate regulations, and spend appropriated funds necessary and appropriate to carry out these functions Ensure that the database is made publicly accessible by the Copyright Office, in its entirety and without charge, and in a format that reflects current technological practices, and that is updated on a real-time basis Limit the remedies available to a copyright owner or authorized party to bring an infringement action for violation of the exclusive right to perform publicly, reproduce or distribute a musical work or sound recording if that owner/ authorized party has failed to provide or maintain the minimum information required in the database
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the Emergency Nursing Supply Relief Act, which would increase the number of temporary work visas – up to 8,000 – available for foreign-trained nurses. Demand for nurses in America is at an all-time high and despite being one of the fastest growing occupations in the United States, nursing shortages are occurring throughout the country. This deficit poses an alarming threat to our health care system and its ability to provide world-class care for our nation’s patients. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 1.2 million vacancies will emerge for registered nurses between 2014 and 2022. By 2025, the shortfall is expected to be more than twice as large as any nurse shortage experienced since the introduction of Medicare and Medicaid in the mid-1960s. In response to this, Congressman Sensenbrenner has introduced the Emergency Nursing Supply Relief Act. Over the past several years, caps on available work visas have reduced the number of immigrant nurses in the United States. This legislation would increase current visa caps in order to fill open nursing positions and provide immediate relief for hospitals facing shortages. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Supplying our health care providers with the nurses they need is imperative for public health, both in the short and long term. During a tumultuous time in health care, nurses provide the constant support and quality care that our nation’s patients need. In order to ensure hospitals can continue to keep us and our families safe and healthy, we need to be willing to provide them with the necessary tools.”
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) reintroduced the bipartisan Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2017 (VRAA), which would fully restore and modernize the original Voting Rights Act (VRA) of 1965 to reflect today’s societal needs and challenges. One of the VRA’s core protections is its preclearance system, which previously required states with a documented history of discrimination to allow the federal government to review changes to voting laws and practices before they were implemented. This provision was struck down in 2013 by the Supreme Court in Shelby v. Holder, where the court held that while preclearance is constitutional; it is unconstitutional to apply it to states based on the 1965 formula. Congressmen Sensenbrenner and Conyers introduced the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2017 in response to this ruling. The VRAA would make all states and jurisdictions eligible for coverage formula based on voting violations in the last 15 years. Key elements of the legislation include: Applies equally to every state in the country and only applies if a state has a documented history of discrimination. States would only be subject to preclearance if they have committed five voting violations in the last 15 years. Provides greater transparency in elections so that voters are made aware of any changes to polling times, dates, locations, and protocols. The additional sunlight will deter discrimination from occurring and protect voters from discrimination. Allows for preliminary relief to be obtained more readily, given that voting rights cannot often be vindicated after an election is already over. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Every American – no matter the color of their skin – needs to know that we understand their right to vote is sacred. That is why reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act is so important. I’m confident that congressional leaders of both parties can come together in support of this modernized legislation and show their unfailing commitment to protecting that right.” Congressman Conyers: “As a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus who cosponsored the original Voting Rights Act in 1965, I have witnessed firsthand the stain that discrimination has placed on our democracy. The right to vote is the foundation of all other rights and the Voting Rights Act was critical to ensuring equal access to the ballot box for all Americans. In the wake of the 2013 Supreme Court decision, some states immediately worked to roll back the progress that has been made. Congress has a long history of protecting and expanding access to the ballot box and it should continue to build on that legacy by fully restoring and enhancing the Voting Rights Act.” President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law in August of 1965, and it has been reauthorized four times since. President George W. Bush signed the most recent reauthorization into law in 2006, after the House voted 390-33 and the Senate 98-0 in favor of the legislation.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reintroduced the Moving Obstructed Trains In-between Openings Now (MOTION) Act. Due to current federal regulations, train operators are required to immediately stop operations when they reach a specified number of hours. This means that even if a train is blocking traffic or has not reached its final destination, it must stop. The issue is particularly troublesome in Wisconsin, which is one of the nation’s largest exporters of stone, gravel, and sand. The increased traffic on Wisconsin’s railways has caused trains to stall on the tracks for hours, leading to significant disruptions for motorists and communities throughout the state. The MOTION Act would allow railroad employees to remain on duty and continue working in excess of federal hours of service limits to ensure their trains are not blocking crossings when they have reached their hour allotments. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Blockages at crossing-grades are both inconvenient and dangerous for communities in Wisconsin, and nationwide. We must reform the arbitrarily-set federal regulations governing freight operators’ hours of service in order to decrease traffic interruptions and protect public safety.” Congressman Sensenbrenner first introduced H.R. 390, the Moving Obstructed Trains In-between Openings Now (MOTION) Act, in the House of Representatives in 2015.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) reintroduced the Tibetan Refugee Assistance Act, which would provide visas to displaced Tibetans. Thousands of Tibetans have gone into exile due to continuing repression in their homeland. These refugees have worked to preserve their religious and cultural identity in exile communities in India and Nepal, but the influx of Tibetans creates many challenges and places an economic burden on these countries. Because they fled Tibet, current U.S. law may consider the Tibetans “firmly resettled” in a third country and might render them inadmissible to the U.S. The Tibetan Refugee Assistance Act addresses this problem by providing 3,000 immigrant visas to qualified displaced Tibetans over a three-year period. The bill supports the well-being of the Tibetan exile community as they strive to find a peaceful solution for Tibet; helps the overburdened settlements in India and Nepal; and gives displaced Tibetans the opportunity to flourish as Tibetan-Americans. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The United States has a long record of giving humanitarian assistance to other countries in need, including providing refuge to those persecuted abroad. The religious injustice occurring to the Tibetan people by the Chinese government cannot be tolerated. As a global leader, America must act immediately to help these religiously persecuted individuals.” Congresswoman Lofgren: “The Tibetan people have suffered decades of persecution at the hands of the Chinese government. After the devastation of the 2015 earthquake in Nepal, it is even more necessary for displaced Tibetans to be recognized by the United States for refugee assistance and afforded protection under U.S. Law.”
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced that Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner will be the new Chairman of the Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee. He replaces Congressman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) who was recently named Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Since the beginning of the 115th Congress, Congressman Sensenbrenner has served as Chairman of the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, a position which will be taken over by Congressman Raul Labrador (R-Idaho). Sensenbrenner will remain a member of this committee. Congressman Sensenbrenner previously chaired the Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigation Subcommittee during the 114th Congress. He is also the former House Judiciary Committee Chairman from 2001-2006. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I’m honored to accept this new role within the House Judiciary Committee and I’m looking forward to bringing my experience and expertise to the table as my colleagues and I work together to find solutions for the many challenges our nation faces in these vital issue areas.”
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner and Senator Ron Johnson sent the following letter to United States Department of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, urging him to consider the unintended ramifications of a Department investigation into the effects of steel imports on national security, and its potential negative impact on U.S. manufacturing – mainly increased, unnecessary, and burdensome restrictions: Dear Secretary Ross, Re: Section 232 National Security Investigation of Imports of Steel We write to you regarding the Presidential Memorandum for the Secretary of Commerce, dated April 20, 2017, which directs an “investigation under section 232(b)(1)(A) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862(b)(1)(A)) to determine the effects on national security of steel imports, and its potential negative impact on manufacturing in the United States. We are greatly concerned that an investigation by the Department of Commerce may not distinguish between the different types of products produced from electrical steel and therefore unnecessarily place restrictions on the importation of electrical steel and components used to manufacture electric distribution transformers. Grain Oriented Chemically or Mechanically Etched Domain Refined Electrical Steel is a critical component in producing Wound Core Electrical Transformers. This specific grain oriented electrical steel is sought after in the developed world due to its very high performance in electrical distribution systems. As such, there are no producers that supply this type of electrical steel in North America. Additionally, this precise grain oriented electrical steel allows power producers to meet and exceed the 2016 Department of Energy efficiency standards placed on electrical distribution transformers. We believe that a potential quota placed on Grain Oriented Chemically or Mechanically Etched Domain Refined Electrical Steel could have unintended consequences that leave producers without a supply of this vital material, ultimately jeopardizing the domestic production of electrical transformers and potentially impacting hundreds of jobs in the state of Wisconsin. Therefore, we ask that the Department of Commerce considers the lack of domestic supply of specific Grain Oriented Electrical Steel and request that Grain Oriented Chemically or Mechanically Etched Domain Refined Electrical Steel not be subject to action under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress Ron Johnson United States Senator
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to United States Department of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross compelling him to limit the scope of an ongoing investigation of steel products used for national security applications in order to avoid unnecessarily impacting manufacturers producing non-security related steel products: Dear Secretary Ross, I am writing in regards to the Presidential Memorandum for the Secretary of Commerce, dated April 20, 2017, which directs an “investigation under section 232(b)(1)(A) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (the "Act") (19 U.S.C. 1862(b)(1)(A)) to determine the effects on national security of steel imports and the Presidential Memorandum for the Secretary of Commerce, dated April 27, 2017, which directs an “investigation under section 232(b)(1)(A) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (the "Act") (19 U.S.C. 1862(b)(1)(A)) to determine the effects on national security of aluminum imports. I appreciate the President’s commitment to America’s security and his commitment to assuring a level playing field for American manufacturing. However, I am concerned that the scope of this investigation could include steel and aluminum that has no national security application, such as tinplate steel, rolled can sheet, and the primary aluminum and ingot that is milled into rolled can sheet, food and beverage containers, lids, and closures. These products are principally produced outside of the United States because the remaining U.S. smelters largely make more profitable aluminum and steel products domestically. Because of this, companies that use these products largely depend on imports in order to make aluminum cans and bottles. Our dependence on the imports of these products is not recent. In fact, the U.S. has been in this deficit trade position with these products since the end of World War II. I am concerned that if these products are included within the scope of the Section 232 investigation, it will result in the loss of good paying manufacturing jobs, both in Wisconsin and in other states around the nation, along with higher prices for the American consumer. I understand that this consequence would be unintended. Not all aluminum and steel is the same, and the distinction of tinplate steel, rolled can sheet, and primary and ingot used for food and beverage containers, lids and closures versus other aluminum is very important. I hope that your investigation under Section 232 will be limited in scope to only products that are used for national security applications and not include the products listed above. Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to working with you on this matter. Should you have any questions regarding this letter, please contact Mark O’Neil in my office at Mark.O’Neil@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the devastating news that Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield will be dropping out of the Wisconsin health insurance market: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today’s announcement that Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield will be dropping out of the Wisconsin health insurance market is devastating to thousands of families in our state. It’s another unfortunate example of the ongoing failures of the disastrous Obamacare law and further proof that Congress must come together to pass serious health care reform for the sake of all Americans.”
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released a statement in response to Milwaukee’s missed opportunity to work with Attorney General Sessions and a new U.S. Justice Department program aimed at curbing violent crime, drug trafficking, and gang violence. Under the new DOJ program, consultants will work with local law enforcement officials to help develop new ways to fight violent crime in 12 cities with exceedingly high crime rates. Although Milwaukee has one of the highest crime rates in the nation, it was not chosen for the program due to its status as a sanctuary city. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Milwaukee has one of the highest crime rates in the country, yet it was overlooked for an opportunity to receive assistance under this new DOJ program because of city leaders who want to put politics before the safety of their citizens. Milwaukee residents deserve better – they deserve leaders who will stand up for them rather than political interests. If Milwaukee rescinds its sanctuary status, it will be eligible for consideration in the next round of cities.” Cities chosen for the program include: Birmingham, AL; Indianapolis, IN; Toledo, OH; Cincinnati, OH; Houston, TX; Buffalo, NY; Memphis, TN; Baton Rouge, LA; Jackson, TN; Kansas City, MO; Lansing, MI; and Springfield, IL. The program is expected to expand to include additional cities later this year.
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2017. The Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2017 builds on the success of the original Second Chance Act of 2008 and continues to authorize funding for both public and private entities to evaluate and improve academic and vocational education for offenders in prison, jails, and juvenile facilities. Congress passed the original Second Chance Act with strong bipartisan support and President George W. Bush signed it into law in 2008. This legislation provides non-profit faith and community-based organizations with mentoring grants to develop support programs such as drug treatment, housing, job training, medical care, and education. Re-entry services have been improved, which has resulted in a reduction in recidivism and helped ensure a successful return to society for prisoners who have completed their sentence. More than 100,000 men, women, and youth returning home from prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities have benefited from Second Chance grants providing career training, mentoring, family-based substance abuse treatment, and other evidence-based reentry programs. This investment has also paid public safety dividends. A report from the National Reentry Resource Center highlights how numerous states have experienced drastic reductions in statewide recidivism rates as a result of robust reentry services made possible in part through Second Chance. The outcomes are impressive, but state and local governments as well as non-profit organizations need resources in order to ensure that the millions of individuals returning from prison, jail, and juvenile facilities each year continue to receive coordinated evidence-based reentry services. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The Second Chance Reauthorization Act is an important component of my ongoing efforts to reform and improve our federal criminal justice system, save taxpayer money, and strengthen American families. While prisons are important deterrents in our fight against crime, they remain one part of the solution to a complex problem. Rehabilitation efforts, such as the ones in the Second Chance Act, will help prisoners who have paid their debt to society get back on the right path and become successful, contributing members of their communities.”
06.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2017 in the House of Representatives. In their never-ending quest for new revenues, states are growing increasingly aggressive in imposing regulatory burdens on out-of-state businesses. The No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2017 will stop such overreaches by states and help out-of-state businesses defend themselves against overly burdensome tax obligations. This legislation prohibits states from regulating beyond their borders by imposing sales tax collection requirements on businesses with no physical presence in the taxing state, and no vote in the representation that would implement such a tax. Prohibited activities include: Telling an out-of-state business how to make or dispose of its products Imposing income tax or sales tax collection burdens on out-of-state businesses The No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2017 does not prohibit states from regulating businesses within their borders. States remain free to insist that products entering their borders comply with national standards. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Over-taxation and regulatory burdens weigh heavy on American businesses. These practices prohibit economic growth, stunt hiring, and make it harder for businesses to expand. The No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2017 helps alleviate these burdens, promotes entrepreneurial endeavors, and is an ally of small business. It reduces overregulation, keeps government overreaches in check, and ensures that only businesses within a state are subjected to state tax obligations.” The No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2017 is supported by various organizations, including: Council for Citizens Against Government Waste; Net-Choice; National Taxpayers Union; Software Finance and Tax Executives Council; Overstock; Electronic Retailing Association; Americans for Tax Reform; American Catalog Mailers Association.
06.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “President Obama bypassed the Constitution and entered the United States into a losing agreement when he committed the country to the Paris Climate Accord. Knowing he could not get Senate approval for a treaty, Obama sidelined Congress and called the deal an “executive agreement.” “The agreement, which does not hold all nations to the same standards, forces the U.S. to reduce emissions immediately while allowing global polluters, such as China and India, to expand their carbon footprints through the 2020s. This is not only bad for the environment, but it puts the U.S. at a severe economic disadvantage. “Further, it hurts Wisconsin. Coal provides more than half of our state’s net electricity generation, and our manufacturers already pay more for electricity than most of our neighboring states. This means higher electricity costs to Wisconsin’s consumers, a less competitive state, and stunted economic growth. “I applaud President Trump for putting America first and leaving this unfair climate agreement. We all want cleaner air and water, but we can achieve these goals without handicapping the country and outsourcing jobs to foreign countries.”
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the Deducting Expenses Derived from Use of Care and Treatment (DEDUCT) Act in the House of Representatives. In the Tax Reform Act of 1986, Congress allowed Americans to deduct medical expenses from their tax returns if the costs exceeded a certain amount of their adjusted gross income. Current law states that no medical expense may be deducted until the costs reach 10 percent of an individual’s gross income. The DEDUCT Act would eliminate this unnecessary tax threshold in order to help make medical expenses more affordable for Americans. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The costs of medical procedures and prescriptions can be a significant burden on individuals and families. As Congress continues to debate health care and tax reform, now is the ideal time to repeal the arbitrary medical tax deduction threshold for medical expenses and give a hand up to Americans struggling to pay for necessary medical expenditures.”
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017, which would allow the protections of the Adam Walsh Protection and Safety Act to continue saving the lives of children throughout the nation, passed in the House of Representatives with broad bipartisan support. Introduced by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act became law in 2006 and has played a vital role in the prevention of sexual exploitation of America’s children. The comprehensive, bipartisan law strengthened sex offender registry requirements and enforcement across the country, as well as extended registry requirements to Native American tribes, increased penalties for child predators, and authorized funding for various programs to strengthen our defenses against child exploitation. This legislation is critical because despite ongoing prevention efforts, the fight against child exploitation is not over. The Justice Department reports that only 17 states, three territories, and 36 Native American tribes have substantially implemented the Sex Offender Management Assistance Program and the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA). Additionally, there are also an estimated 100,000 fugitive sex offenders across the country who are unregistered or in violation of registry requirements. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Childhood sexual abuse is a serious problem facing this nation. The devastation it causes impacts every societal group and lasts a lifetime for its victims and their loved ones. Today’s reauthorization the Adam Walsh Protection and Safety Act ensures that serious action will continue to prevent the ongoing sexual exploitation of our nation’s children.” Further details of the bill include the following: The Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017 reauthorizes the two primary programs of the Adam Walsh Act – The Sex Offender Management Assistance Program and SORNA – for five years. SORNA sets minimum guidelines for state sex offender registries and establishes the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website, which is a comprehensive national system for the registration and notification to the public of sex offenders. This registry currently contains information on more than 600,000 convicted sex offenders in the United States. The Sex Offender Management Assistance Program provides funding to the states, tribes, and other jurisdictions to offset the costs of implementing and enhancing SORNA, and funding for the U.S. Marshals Service and other law enforcement agencies to assist jurisdictions in locating and apprehending sex offenders who violate registration requirements. The Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017 makes targeted changes to the SORNA requirements, including giving states more flexibility in classifying sex offenders on their registry, lowering the period that certain juveniles must register to 15 years, and limiting public access to juvenile sex offender information.
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner gave the following statement on the House floor in support of the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017: Watch here. See full transcript below: The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, enacted in 2006, is landmark legislation intended to keep our communities, and most importantly our children, safe from sex offenders and other dangerous predators. This bipartisan bill strengthened sex offender registry requirements and enforcement, extended federal registry requirements to Indian tribes, and authorized funding for several programs intended to address and deter child exploitation. The centerpiece of the Adam Walsh Act is the national Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act, or SORNA. SORNA’s goal is to create a seamless national sex offender registry to assist law enforcement’s efforts to detect and track offenders. SORNA provides minimum standards for state sex offender registries, and created the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Website, which allows law enforcement officials and the general public to search for sex offenders nationwide from just one website. H.R. 1188, the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017, reauthorizes two key programs from the original Adam Walsh Act – grants to the states and other jurisdictions to implement the Adam Walsh Act’s sex offender registry requirements, and funding for the U.S. Marshals’ to locate and apprehend sex offenders who violate registration requirements. These programs are crucial to efforts to complete, and enforce, the national network of sex offender registries, particularly in light of the already-passed deadline for the states to come into compliance with SORNA. Based on feedback from the states, H.R. 1188 makes targeted changes to the SORNA sex offender registry requirements. The bill changes the period of time after which juveniles adjudicated delinquent can petition to be removed from the sex offender registry for a clean record from 25 years to 15 years, and provides that juveniles do not need to be included on publicly-viewed sex offender registries. Instead, it is sufficient for juveniles to be included on registries that are only viewed by law enforcement entities. I believe these provisions strike an appropriate balance between being tough on juveniles who commit serious sex crimes and understanding that there can be differences between adult and juvenile offenders. The bill also recognizes the unique challenges that tribes face in implementing SORNA. H.R. 1188 provides technical assistance to tribes so they can access, and enter information into, the federal criminal information databases. Finally, H.R. 1188 amends the statute of limitations to allow individuals who were victims of exploitation or trafficking as juveniles to have 10 years after becoming an adult to file suit for a civil remedy. It is my hope that with these common sense changes, more states will come into compliance. With the passage of this legislation, Congress can send a strong message to all Americans about our continued commitment to keeping our nation’s children safe. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1188 and yield back the balance of my time.
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the Disability Integration Act, legislation which would help assure the full integration of Americans with disabilities into communities nationwide. America has come a long way in ensuring that individuals with disabilities have equal rights and opportunities, particularly with the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 – legislation Congressman Sensenbrenner strongly supported and fought on behalf of alongside his wife, Cheryl. Despite these advancements, there are still lingering issues that need to be resolved to ensure true integration and freedom for our nation’s disabled. The Disability Integration Act would amend the ADA to address many of these issues by making clear that every individual eligible for long term services and support (LTSS) has the right to choose how they receive support and assure that the states and other LTSS funders provide services in ways that allow beneficiaries to live as independently as possible. Among other things, the bill establishes a comprehensive state planning requirement comparable to the transition planning processes required under the ADA and would require them to address the need for affordable and accessible integrated housing, as well as establish targeted enforcement measures. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The passage of the ADA was a significant step forward in the fight for equal rights for Americans with disabilities, but more than 20 years later, there are still problems that need to be solved. The Disability Integration Act identifies challenges that still exist and provides comprehensive and effective solutions that will help these individuals fully participate in daily life.” Additional Information about the Disability Integration Act The Disability Integration Act defines discrimination based on Title III of the ADA with a general rule and specific prohibitions. The general rule states, “No public entity or LTSS insurance provider shall deny an individual with an LTSS disability who is eligible for institutional placement, or otherwise discriminate against that individual in the provision of, community-based long-term services and supports that enable the individual to live in the community and lead an independent life.” The Disability Integration Act identifies specific prohibitions to address the various ways that access to Home and Community Based Care (HCBS) LTSS have been limited. Additionally, public entities must assure that there is sufficient affordable and accessible housing available to allow people to live in non-congregate, independent housing in the community. The legislation also requires that all public entities and LTSS insurance providers must complete a self-evaluation within six months after the regulations are released. Within one year of completing the self-evaluation, public entities must submit a transition plan for addressing the issues identified in the self-evaluation and achieving the purpose of this legislation. The plan must address these issues as soon as practicable, but public entities have up to 10 years to complete the plan. The Secretary, through the Administration on Community Living, is charged with reviewing and approving state transition plans. Finally, the Disability Integration Act provides the Attorney General with the authority to enforce this law in a manner that is consistent with other titles of the ADA. An individual who believes they have been discriminated against in violation of this law may bring a civil action for preventive relief and the Attorney General may intervene if he certifies that the case is of concern to the general public.
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the bipartisan Rapid DNA Act, introduced by Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) passed in the House of Representatives. The Rapid DNA Act would establish a system for the integration of Rapid DNA instruments for use by law enforcement to help reduce the DNA backlog. Unlike traditional DNA analysis, which can take weeks, Rapid DNA analysis permits processing of DNA samples in approximately 90 minutes or less. This technology has the potential to revolutionize the way in which arrested individuals are enrolled in the criminal justice system, shorten the time required for their DNA to be linked to unsolved crimes, and expedite the exoneration of innocent suspects by giving law enforcement officials a new system that meets FBI quality assurance standards to compare DNA samples collected at the time of an arrest to profiles in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Rapid DNA is a promising new technology and an effective tool for law enforcement. It will help quickly identify arrestees and offenders, reduce the overwhelming backlog in forensic DNA analysis, and make crime fighting efforts more efficient while helping to prevent future crimes from occurring. It will also save time and taxpayer dollars. Today’s passage of the Rapid DNA Act is a victory and I look forward to it being signed into law."
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner gave the following statement on the House floor in support of H.R. 510, the Rapid DNA Act. Congressman Sensenbrenner: Rapid DNA is a promising new technology that allows for the almost immediate DNA analysis of an arrestee. Unlike standard DNA practices which require sending DNA samples from arrestees out to labs with a result taking weeks to ascertain, Rapid DNA results take only a few hours and can be done right at the booking station. Like fingerprinting, photographing, and other booking procedures which at the time were novel but have now become routine, Rapid DNA will soon be standard procedure in police stations throughout the country. There is only one problem with Rapid DNA technology--- Federal Law. Our law, written in 1994 when DNA technology was still in its infancy, prohibits the use of Rapid DNA technology in booking stations. This is not because of any limitation in Rapid DNA technology, but simply because at the time, Rapid DNA technology was not even contemplated. Similar to the transformation of musical devices – records leading to cassette tapes, cassette tapes leading to CDs, CDs leading to MP3, and now iPods and online music hosting services, -technology moves quicker than we can legislate. Now is the time to change the law to permit Rapid DNA technology. Rapid DNA machines are compact, approximately the size of copy machines, and can provide a DNA analysis from a cheek swab sample of an arrestee within 2 hours. This has two profound implications. First, arrestees may be exonerated of crimes in 2 hours, rather than waiting for up to 72 hours for release, or months for more standard DNA testing. Second, those arrested for a crime, can quickly be matched to other unsolved crimes where there was forensic evidence left at the crime scene, but for which there is no identified suspect. The Rapid DNA Act updates current law to allow DNA samples to be processed using Rapid DNA instruments located in booking stations and other approved locations. The bill will require the FBI to issue standards and procedures for the use such instruments and their resulting DNA analyses to ensure their integrity and the accuracy of results. It will permit those results to be included in the DNA Index if the criminal justice agencies taking Rapid DNA samples comply with the standards and procedures that the FBI approves. In this way, the bill would permit this new category of DNA samples to be uploaded to the index with the same protections and quality standards as current DNA samples. Not only does Rapid DNAhave the potential to reduce crime and help expeditiously exonerate the innocent, but also to positively impact the current backlogs for rape kits and other DNA sample analysis. This committee has spent a great deal of time and significant work to try and reduce the forensic DNA backlog, especially in rape kits. Rapid DNA could not at this time be used for rape kits, but the implementation of Rapid DNA will allow forensics labs to focus on forensic samples, not on identification samples which can easily be handled by Rapid DNA machines. I hope this will reduce the rape kit backlog which will also prevent future rapes from happening. I am pleased that the House is taking a significant step in furthering the use of this technology. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and yield back the balance of my time. Watch here.
05.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement in recognition of National Police Week: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Our nation’s law enforcement officers selflessly serve their communities, states, and country in order to keep all Americans safe. They put their lives on the line every day, and they deserve our respect and deepest gratitude. In honor of their service, and in recognition of their ongoing efforts during National Police Week, I want to take this opportunity to thank our nation’s law enforcement officers and their families for their dedication and sacrifice.”
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the passage of the American Health Care Act in the House of Representatives: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The House passage of the American Health Care Act is an important first step in fulfilling the promise we made to the American people to repeal and replace Obamacare – a collapsing law that has failed millions of American businesses and families. This bill is a free-market solution that works for the people, not the government. I applaud its passage and want to congratulate Speaker Ryan for his leadership and fortitude on this important legislation. I look forward to working with my colleagues to continue reforming our nation’s health care system to where care is accessible to all Americans.”
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the Former Presidents Amendment Act of 2017, which would reform the federal processes currently in place to provide various taxpayer-funded services for former U.S. presidents. In 1958, Congress passed the Former Presidents Act (FPA) as a response to the difficulties former presidents faced earning a living after their service had ended. The original Act passed was designed to provide a reasonable pension in order to ensure our past presidents didn’t fall into poverty. Over the years, however, the benefits have continued to grow while the need for them has significantly decreased. In the modern era, former presidents now have a greater ability to earn a generous living through various means, such as featured speaker engagements and book deals. Despite this, the FPA has grown from simply providing a healthy pension to including a transition fund, health insurance, lifetime Secret Service protection, and additional funds for office space and a personal staff. While some things, such as lifetime Secret Service protection, still make sense, others do not. Certain benefits, such as providing funding for office space and a personal staff, are not only unnecessary but an abuse of taxpayer dollars, especially considering these funds are often used for political activity. The Former Presidents Amendment Act of 2017 is a common sense reform bill aimed at scaling back non-essential benefits while still maintaining crucial protections for our former presidents. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The benefits currently allocated to former U.S. presidents are outdated and put an unnecessary financial burden on American taxpayers. The common sense reforms in the Former Presidents Amendment Act would update these benefits to reflect today’s society while still maintaining the necessary levels of protection our past presidents deserve.”
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Rapid DNA Act, introduced by Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) passed out of the House Judiciary Committee and is on its way to a full vote on the floor of the House of Representatives. If passed, the Rapid DNA Act would establish a system for the integration of Rapid DNA instruments for use by law enforcement to help reduce the DNA backlog. Unlike traditional DNA analysis, which can take weeks, Rapid DNA analysis permits processing of DNA samples in approximately 90 minutes or less. This technology has the potential to revolutionize the way in which arrested individuals are enrolled in the criminal justice system, shorten the time required for their DNA to be linked to unsolved crimes, and expedite the exoneration of innocent suspects by giving law enforcement officials a new system that meets FBI quality assurance standards to compare DNA samples collected at the time of an arrest to profiles in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today’s passage of the Rapid DNA Act out of the House Judiciary Committee is a promising development that brings us one step closer to safer communities throughout the nation. Rapid DNA technology is an effective tool for law enforcement that will help quickly identify arrestees and offenders, as well as reduce the overwhelming backlog in forensic DNA analysis. It will also make crime fighting efforts more efficient and help prevent future crimes from occurring, which saves time and taxpayer dollars. I look forward to this smart legislation moving forward to a vote on the House floor soon.”
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner announced the launch of his new official website, which is designed to provide constituents of Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District with an attractive, comprehensive resource for information, news, and updates about Congressman Sensenbrenner’s legislative efforts. The website boasts a fresh, updated design and makes site navigation easier than ever. Among the changes are larger text and navigation buttons that are easier to read and identify, drop-down menus that make finding information fast and straightforward, and convenient, highly visible links to the Congressman’s social media accounts for instant access to additional photos, news, and calendar updates. Additionally, the site includes an interactive district map and content that is now structured for maximum efficiency, reducing the amount of pages visitors must click through to find relevant information. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I’m excited to launch this new website because it will make it easier than ever before for constituents to access information, contact me with questions and comments, and keep track of my legislative initiatives and accomplishments. I appreciate every opportunity to be accessible to my constituents, and this improved website is just one more way to serve the citizens of Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District.”
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Time and again, Judge Gorsuch has proven himself an ardent defender of the Constitution, a faithful advocate for the sanctity of human life, and a prudent judicial practitioner who has served with humility, integrity, and candor. His confirmation today is a victory for the American people and our judicial system. I have no doubt he will continue to serve this nation with honor and the utmost respect for the spirit of the law.”
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) released their 2016 Congressional Report, which highlights Members of Congress who consistently defend taxpayer interests with fiscally responsible voting. The report, which began in 1989, examines the voting records of all 535 Members of Congress and creates a rating on a scale from 0 to 100. Congressman Sensenbrenner ranked highest in the Wisconsin delegation in 2016 with a score of 97. The passage of PROMESA and the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016 were lauded as taxpayer victories by the CCAGW, both of which Congressman Sensenbrenner supported. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “With our national debt climbing to nearly $20 trillion, fiscal responsibility is more important now than ever before. As a steward of taxpayer money, I not only consider the merits of each piece of legislation, but also the fiscal consequences that will impact my constituents and all Americans before I cast my vote. I’m proud of my voting record and will continue to scrutinize every bill that comes before the House to ensure it does not waste hard-earned taxpayer dollars.”
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement in response to the newly released Inspector General (IG) report on its investigation into the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) forfeiture practices, particularly its use of cash forfeitures. The investigation brought to light several weaknesses in the federal asset forfeiture program. The report’s key findings include:• The DOJ does not aggregate data in order to meaningfully study the extent seizures aid criminal investigations or risk civil liberty violations.• Only 29 of 85 cash interdiction seizures reviewed by the DOJ were part of an investigation or led to further investigation, arrest, or prosecution. Simply put, in approximately two-thirds of cases where cash was seized, there was no attempt to confirm that the money was related to criminal activity.• The DOJ has insufficient training of federal law enforcement, as well as state and local law enforcement, of who are effectively deputized to enforce federal law.Earlier today, Congressman Sensenbrenner reintroduced legislation aimed at reforming federal asset forfeiture laws. The DUE PROCESS Act, which was first introduced in the 114th Congress, builds upon changes made in the 2000 Civil Action Forfeiture Reform Act by increasing transparency in the civil asset forfeiture process, adding protections for innocent property owners, and implementing additional protections to ensure property owners have the opportunity to contest seizures. The legislation also improves the notice that the government must give property owners and makes it easier for them to be heard by a judge.Additionally, the DUE PROCESS Act entitles property owners to an initial hearing, where they can retrieve confiscated property immediately if it was not seized according to the law. It increases the availability of attorney fees for innocent owners, places a higher burden of proof on the government, and allows for owners of confiscated animals to retrieve their pets faster.Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The release of the Inspector General’s report highlights a serious problem that must be addressed. Civil asset forfeiture is an essential tool in the overall effort to fix our broken criminal justice system, but reform is necessary to strengthen faith in law enforcement, tamper abuse, and protect citizens’ Constitutional rights. It’s imperative to our justice system and the health of our nation to enact serious reform, which is why I’ve introduced the DUE PROCESS Act. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and move forward toward solutions that work for the people, not the government.”
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reintroduced the Deterring Undue Enforcement by Protecting Rights of Citizens from Excessive Searches and Seizures (DUE PROCESS) Act in the House of Representatives.The DUE PROCESS Act builds upon changes made in the 2000 Civil Action Forfeiture Reform Act by increasing transparency in the civil asset forfeiture process, adding protections for innocent property owners, and implementing additional protections to ensure property owners have the opportunity to contest seizures. The legislation also improves the notice that the government must give property owners and makes it easier for them to be heard by a judge.Additionally, the DUE PROCESS Act entitles property owners to an initial hearing, where they can retrieve confiscated property immediately if it was not seized according to the law. It increases the availability of attorney fees for innocent owners, places a higher burden of proof on the government, and allows for owners of confiscated animals to retrieve their pets faster.Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Civil asset forfeiture is a critical component of the overall effort to fix our broken criminal justice system, and the DUE PROCESS Act makes common sense changes to federal forfeiture laws that help innocent Americans. Its reintroduction today brings us one step closer to meaningful reform that will tamper abuse and protect citizens’ Constitutional rights.”
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner delivered the following remarks during the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee hearing on “Restoring Enforcement of Our Nation’s Immigration Laws.” Watch Congressman Sensenbrenner’s remarks here.See full transcript below:It is fitting that today’s hearing is called “Restoring Enforcement of Our Nation’s Immigration Laws.” The past eight years witnessed the Obama administration’s deliberate undermining of our immigration laws, the growth of anti-immigration enforcement policies at every level of government, and the vilification of federal, state and local law enforcement officers who attempt to enforce our nation’s duly enacted immigration laws.Our immigration laws are an expression of our nation’s sovereignty. They are not suggestions. Yet, for the past eight years, they were largely ignored. And the example was set from the top. The Obama administration abandoned the rule of law under the guise of prosecutorial discretion has had devastating consequences: the cold-blooded murder of Kate Steinle, the death by DUI of Sarah Root, terrorist attacks ranging from the World Trade Center to the massacre in San Bernardino, the brutal sexual assault against as Rockville teenager. The time is long overdue to ensure that our immigration laws are enforced and that the rule of law is truly restored.The Obama administration’s policies of “catch and release” and of rubberstamping credible fear claims at the border, and its outright prohibition on ICE officers and prosecutors from carrying out ICE’s critical mission, have left this nation increasingly at risk. As sky-high credible fear and asylum grant rates encouraged aliens to make the dangerous illicit journey to the United States, aliens overran our border and credible fear and asylum claims increased ten-fold. Simultaneously, ICE removals from the interior dropped from 238,000 in 2009 to only 65,000 in 2016.The Trump administration inherited a shell of immigration enforcement that it must now rebuild. I’m pleased we will hear today from witnesses who can fully explain the benefits of federal, state and local cooperation and the detrimental effects of obstruction. These sanctuary communities have decided to make a political statement out of lawlessness.The Declined Detainer Outcome Report that ICE will now regularly issue will prove itself a useful tool in continually identifying these jurisdictions and the criminals they let out onto our streets. The government must discourage, not encourage, sanctuary policies and practices.Under DHS’s November 2014 departmental guidance, ICE was given stringent parameters regarding those removable aliens it was permitted to apprehend and seek to remove. Additional guidance ending the successful Secure Communities program further constricted these parameters. This was sold to the American people as prioritizing ICE’s limited resources to go after only “the worst of the worst” – yet the number of criminal aliens removed from the interior fell from almost 87,000 in fiscal year 2014 to approximately 63,500 the following two fiscal years.Under President Obama, it was widely understood that asylum officers should get to “yes” on credible fear determinations and requests for asylum -- by any means necessary. Asylum laws were written to offer refuge to the truly persecuted, and policies like this did nothing to advance those goals. Instead, those Obama administration policies worked to encourage many aliens to seek asylum with fraudulent boilerplate stories. The new administration is taking steps to correct this, and already, the flow of illegal aliens across the border has significantly slowed. This problem is endemic and I look forward to hearing today from our witnesses on best practices to address asylum fraud.
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent the following letter to the Government Accountability Office, asking it to evaluate the status, effectiveness and benefits of current federal public access policies. This letter builds upon previous legislative efforts between these Members to ensure taxpayers, who are footing the bill for federal research, have adequate access to the published results free of charge.Representative Johnson: “I want to thank Mr. Sensenbrenner for his continued leadership on this issue. I am pleased to join him in this GAO request to evaluate the status, effectiveness, benefits, and challenges associated with current federal public access policies on our federal public access policies. Public access is an important topic across the scientific enterprise. Increased access and increased use of technology to enable and promote discovery across the body of scientific literature will advance the frontiers of science, medicine, and innovation across all sectors of our economy. I look forward to seeing GAO’s findings and to continuing to work with Mr. Sensenbrenner and with all interested parties as we move forward on this important issue.” Representative Sensenbrenner: “Understanding how federal agencies create and implement their guidelines for covered works of publicly funded research is essential to improving and modernizing our public access policies. We made progress with the previous administration, and I look forward to working with our federal agencies, as well as Representative Johnson and our fellow congressional colleagues to continue moving forward on this effort.”Dear Mr. Dodaro: Scientific research supported by the Federal Government catalyzes scientific and technological breakthroughs that drive our economy, strengthen our national security, and improve the overall health and wellbeing of our society. Access to the results of federally funded scientific research helps to maximize the impact and accountability of the federal research investment. While the current model for providing access to peer-review scientific publications – through subscriptions held by institutional libraries – has generally met the needs of researchers at traditional research institutions and national laboratories, it has been limited in its ability to serve nontraditional researchers, including entrepreneurs not associated with a research institution. Further, in an increasingly interdisciplinary research environment, the current model does little to promote interoperability across archives and scientific disciplines. As a result, Congress and the Administration have taken steps to increase access to the results of federally funded research and to ensure greater integration and interoperability across disciplines.In Sec. 103 of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-358), Congress required the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) to convene an interagency working group to coordinate federal science agency research and policies related to the dissemination and long-term stewardship of the results of federally funded research, including peer-reviewed scholarly publications resulting from such research. In February 2013, the Director of OSTP issued a memorandum to all agencies with over $100 million in annual research and development obligations to develop plans to support increased public access to federally funded research results. The memorandum specified several requirements for agencies’ plans, such as including a strategy for leveraging existing archives, where appropriate, and encouraging public-private collaboration, as well as specific requirements for public access to scientific publications and data in digital formats, respectively. For example, the OSTP memo called for agencies to use a twelve-month post-publication embargo period as a guideline for making federally funded research papers publicly available. In January 2017, the OSTP updated Congress on the Executive branch’s progress to create and implement public access plans for federally funded research. According to the report, all departments and agencies subject to the 2013 memorandum have completed their public access plans and those plans are available online. Seventeen agencies now require public access to publications resulting from all newly funded research, and three additional agencies have begun phasing-in these requirements. Last Congress, the two of us collaborated on introducing H.R. 1426, the Public Access to Public Science Act. H.R. 1426 was largely intended to codify the OSTP guidelines issued in 2013. In addition, our congressional colleagues have sponsored similar proposals to accelerate federal public access policies. In light of the OSTP memorandum and various legislative proposals, we request that the GAO undertake a study to evaluate the status, effectiveness, benefits, and challenges associated with current federal public access policies. Specifically, we ask that you consider the following questions:1. What is the status of implementation of federal public access policies? What challenges, if any, are agencies facing in fully implementing their policies? What is the overall effectiveness of the agency policies in providing the public with free online access to federally funded research results?2. To what extent is there consistency and/or variation across agencies in the nature of the policies (e.g. flexibility in the embargo period), and in the mechanisms used to implement their policies (e.g. central versus distributed repositories)? To what extent are agency archival solutions enabling integration and interoperability with other federal public access archival solutions and with related archives maintained by publishers and universities?3. What challenges, if any, is the stakeholder community facing in complying with agency policies? To what extent does any variation across agencies affect ease or rate of compliance by federally funded researchers? How well are agencies working with researchers, publishers, and other stakeholders to streamline compliance?4. How are agencies choosing to pay for their plans? Are they identifying adequate resources to fully implement their plans? To what extent are agencies leveraging private sector resources to implement their plans?5. To what extent do the terms of use applicable to research results made available through federal public access policies enable productive reuse of the research and computational analysis by state-of-the-art technologies?If you have questions or to discuss this request further, please contact Dahlia Sokolov on the Science Committee staff at 202-225-6375 or Jacob Peterson in Representative Sensenbrenner’s office at 202-225-5101.Sincerely,Eddie Bernice JohnsonRanking MemberScience, Space and Technology CommitteeF. James Sensenbrenner, Jr.Member of Congress
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the American Health Care Act:Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I’m disappointed Congress didn’t act to repeal and replace Obamacare today. President Trump and Speaker Ryan showed true leadership in fighting for a bill that would have reduced the deficit and lowered health care premiums. This is was our first opportunity to repeal Obamacare but I’ll work to make sure it isn’t our last. I remain committed to improving health care for all Americans.”
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner delivered the following remarks during the House Judiciary Committee’s markup of H.R. 1188, the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017, legislation reintroduced by Congressman Sensenbrenner earlier this year. Watch the statement here.Read the full transcript below:The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, enacted in 2006, is landmark legislation intended to keep our communities, and most importantly our children, safe from sex offenders and other dangerous predators.This bipartisan bill strengthened sex offender registry requirements and enforcement, extended federal registry requirements to Indian tribes, and authorized funding for several programs intended to address and deter child exploitation.The centerpiece of the Adam Walsh Act is the national Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act, or SORNA [SORE-NA]. SORNA’s goal is to create a seamless national sex offender registry to assist law enforcement’s efforts to detect and track offenders. SORNA provides minimum standards for state sex offender registries, and created the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Website, which allows law enforcement officials and the general public to search for sex offenders nationwide from just one website.H.R. 1188, the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017, reauthorizes two key programs from the original Adam Walsh Act – grants to the states and other jurisdictions to implement the Adam Walsh Act’s sex offender registry requirements, and funding for the U.S. Marshals’ to locate and apprehend sex offenders who violate registration requirements. Specifically, the bill authorizes not less than $60 million annually through fiscal year 2021, which is consistent with recent appropriations. These programs are crucial to efforts to complete, and enforce, the national network of sex offender registries, particularly in light of the already-passed deadline for the states to come into compliance with SORNA. Based on feedback from the states, H.R. 1188 makes targeted changes to the SORNA sex offender registry requirements. The bill changes the period of time after which juveniles adjudicated delinquent can petition to be removed from the sex offender registry for a clean record from 25 years to 15 years, and provides that juveniles do not need to be included on publicly-viewed sex offender registries. Instead, it is sufficient for juveniles to be included on registries that are only viewed by law enforcement entities. I believe these provisions strike an appropriate balance between being tough on juveniles who commit serious sex crimes and understanding that there can be differences between adult and juvenile offenders. The bill also recognizes the unique challenges that tribes face in implementing SORNA. H.R. 1188 provides technical assistance to tribes so they can access, and enter information into, the federal criminal information databases. Finally, H.R. 1188 amends the statute of limitations to allow individuals who were victims of exploitation or trafficking as juveniles to have 10 years after becoming an adult to file suit for a civil remedy. It is my hope that with these common sense changes, more states will come into compliance.The Adam Walsh Act has already been a public safety success. To date, the Justice Department has deemed 128 jurisdictions substantially compliant with the SORNA requirements, including 108 tribes and 3 territories. This legislation is critical because despite ongoing prevention efforts, the fight against child exploitation is not over.I urge my colleagues to support this bill and I yield back the balance of my time.
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), along with Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), reintroduced the bipartisan Private Property Rights Protection Act, which would provide American citizens with the means to protect their private property from inappropriate claims of eminent domain. Under this legislation, if a state or political subdivision of a state uses its eminent domain power to transfer private property to other private parties for the purpose of economic development, the state would be ineligible for federal economic funds for two fiscal years following a judicial determination that the law has been violated. Additionally, the federal government would be prohibited from using eminent domain for economic development purposes.Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The freedom to own and protect one’s private property is foundational to our country. Congress must fight to protect the private property rights of Americans and reform the use and abuse of eminent domain. Under our newly unified government, I’m hopeful this legislation will pass and restore the government’s power of eminent domain to its limited, proper role."Congresswoman Waters: “Few policies have done more to destroy community and opportunity for minorities than eminent domain. Some 3 to 4 million Americans, most of them ethnic minorities, have been forcibly displaced from their homes as a result of urban renewal takings since World War II. It is my hope that together we can protect the rights of vulnerable people by curbing eminent domain abuses through this legislation.”
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the United States Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation that would establish an Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs within the U.S. Department of State. The Arctic is an area of geo-economic interest to the United States and surrounding nations, and the growing importance of the Arctic region cannot be understated. In the coming years, the region will provide new possibilities for trade, travel, and energy development. The constant evolution of the region is creating new areas of innovation in mining and minerals, as well as ongoing opportunities for research.However, U.S. Arctic policy does not have a clear direction because more than 20 agencies conduct work in the Arctic. The Government Accountability Office has found that these agencies face numerous challenges due to the lack of direction and specific resources for their work. Creating the position of Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs would allow the U.S. to better coordinate policy in this region.Congressman Sensenbrenner pressed the Obama Administration to create this position to coincide with the U.S. Chairmanship of the Arctic Council from May 2015 to May 2017. However, the previous administration was shortsighted and failed to recognize that U.S. Arctic policy needs to be streamlined and requires someone with a direct line to the President. This legislation would amend the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to establish an Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs within the State Department, in order to strengthen the U.S. relationship with the Arctic region and allow the U.S. to better coordinate Arctic policy among government agencies. The United States currently sits on the Arctic Council, where six of the eight member nations have already established an Ambassador for Arctic Affairs. Creating this position would allow the U.S. to work closer with the Council in furthering its important work. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The time for an unclear and indecisive Arctic policy is over. America must recognize that other countries, including China and Russia, have very serious, and possibly adversarial, Arctic ambitions. Establishing an Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs would allow us to decisively address issues that face the region and consequently, the rest of the world. I encourage my colleagues to support this endeavor and the work our nation does on the Arctic Council. Lastly, I wish the Finnish Government great success as they assume the Chairmanship of the Arctic Council. Finland is a great friend and important ally of the U.S., and I look forward to working with them on these issues.”
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner and Gwen Moore sent a letter to Office of the United States Trade Representative Chairman William L. Busis urging him to remove certain motorcycles from the tariffs being proposed on the European Union, which would have detrimental impacts on small-and-medium sized U.S. businesses that sell such motorcycles: Dear Mr. Busis:The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) is currently seeking comments in connection with a request from representatives of the U.S. beef industry to reinstate certain retaliatory actions against the European Union (EU) pursuant to Section 306(c) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended. Included in the list of products under consideration for the imposition of increased duties are motorcycles, including mopeds, over 50 cubic centimeters of engine displacement, but not over 500 cubic centimeters from the EU (HTS 87112000 and 87113000). We write today to share our concerns that imposing retaliatory duties against these types of motorcycles would harm the U.S. domestic motorcycle industry, as well as small- and medium-business dealers across the United States and in our state of Wisconsin. We are aware that three of the largest U.S. motorcycle manufacturers – including the Harley-Davidson Motor Company, which is headquartered and manufactures in Wisconsin – have voiced their concerns with such tariffs. We are similarly concerned that motorcycles should not be used as leverage in a trade dispute over agricultural issues, given such an action is unlikely to be effective in resolving the underlying issue. Furthermore, we are concerned that levying retaliatory tariffs against European motorcycles in this dispute could increase the chance of retaliatory actions against Harley-Davidson motorcycles in any future trade dispute, including disputes completely unrelated to motorcycles.Finally, we are very concerned with the impact such tariffs could have on small- and medium-sized businesses that carry these motorcycles, including dealers located in Wisconsin, as well motorcycle consumer and enthusiast communities across the United States. We understand such an action would threaten well over 4,000 jobs at dealerships across the United States.While USTR has the authority and duty to impose retaliatory tariffs against countries that fail to abide by their World Trade Organization obligations, we ask that your agency give heavy weight to the views of U.S. domestic industry and affected small businesses and decline to impose increased duties on motorcycles and mopeds from Europe.Sincerely, Gwen MooreMember of CongressF. James Sensenbrenner, Jr.Member of Congress
03.14.2017	BROOKFIELD,WI – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner held three town hall meetings throughout Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District this past weekend, meeting with constituents of all political ideology in Germantown, Brookfield, and Hartford. Despite repeated calls for civility, a number of meetings were marred by disruption and antagonistic antics from some participants. Congressman Sensenbrenner holds more than 100 such events annually. Since the beginning of the year, he has held more than 40 meetings in communities throughout Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District, and although there has been a significant increase in attendance in recent weeks, for the most part, these gatherings have been civil, despite political and policy differences. However, the mutual respect that has helped make these events successful seems to be deteriorating thanks to crowds of agitators, who rather than participating to discuss legitimate concerns, instead used disorderly tactics which brought meetings to a halt on several occasions. There is a recurring pattern of the same attendees showing up at each meeting to ask the same questions they already posed at previous town halls. It’s clear they are well-aware of the Congressman’s position on the issues, and unfortunately their repeated questions rob others in attendance of their opportunity to have their questions answered. Coarse tactics, such as yelling “shut up” at the Congressman while he responded to questions, and exaggerated and needlessly loud yawning during his answers forced repeated pauses during meetings and took time away from other constituents hoping to speak to the Congressman. They transformed the atmosphere of the room into one more akin to a middle school classroom than that of a town hall meeting. These tactics have been seen at other Republican town hall meetings nationwide, but have not been as intense at Congressman Sensenbrenner’s meetings until recently. They come on the heels of weeks of meetings that operated under feelings of general respect, where many constituents with opposing viewpoints took time to thank the Congressman for being accessible, even though they disagreed with him on policy matters.Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Over the years, there have been contentious national issues that brought passionate constituents to my meetings, but I have rarely seen the type of blatant disruption that I saw this past weekend. I have always run my meetings on the basis of mutual respect, and everyone who openly broke that did a great disservice to their fellow constituents who came to honestly discuss an issue with me. We can disagree without being disagreeable; this is not how democracy is supposed to work.” Many of the agitators at the past weekend’s town hall meetings belong to a national protest group, whose core mission is to resist the Republican agenda and disrupt civil discourse at Republican town hall meetings throughout the country. Despite these efforts, Congressman Sensenbrenner has continued to speak directly to his constituents at town hall meetings. He will hold six more town hall meetings this month in the communities of West Bend, West Allis, Richfield, Newburg, Kewaskum, and Addison. For information on these, and other upcoming meetings, you can visit his official website at http://sensenbrenner.house.gov/contact.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reintroduced H.R. 1424, bipartisan legislation that would make the Ice Age Trail, which spans most of the state of Wisconsin, a unit of the National Parks System. The Ice Age Trail is one of only eleven National Scenic Trails. It is one of Wisconsin tourism and travel industry’s biggest draws. More than 1 million people from across the country use the Ice Age Trail each year, and a 2012 study by the University of Wisconsin – Whitewater quantified the economic impact of the Trail at more than $113 annually. If passed, this legislation would provide parity in the resources available to the trail for management and promotion, all within the existing National Park Service budget. Without unit status, the Ice Age Trail does not have equal participation in National Park Service funding. The designation as a unit is an administrative decision made by the National Park Service that was applied inconsistently as the National Scenic Trails were established. The National Park Service has recognized that there is no significant difference between the unit and non-unit trails that would merit such distinction. However, despite Congressional pressure, they have not resolved the disparity. In addition to Wisconsin’s Ice Age Trail, this legislation would also designate the North Country and New England National Scenic Trails as units under the National Park Service. Co-sponsors of this bill include Wisconsin Representatives Glenn Grothman, Ron Kind, and Gwen Moore. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The Ice Age Trail not only provides beauty and recreational opportunities for those who use it, but it also is essential to Wisconsin’s economy and tourism industry. This bipartisan legislation would ensure that it is preserved and maintained under the National Parks Service at no additional cost to the taxpayers.”
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner delivered the following remarks during the House Judiciary Committee’s hearing on the Department of Homeland Security’s Proposed Regulations Reforming the Investor Visa Program: Watch Congressman Sensenbrenner’s remarks here.See full transcript below:For anyone looking for Cliff’s Notes on today's hearing, I can summarize it at the outset into two major points that you’ll hear over and over again: First, the EB-5 investor visa program brings sustained foreign investment and quality jobs to the United States; and second, the program is out of date and has been subject to waste, fraud, and abuse. Any time you have a valuable government program that isn't working as well as it should, it's time for reform. The days of last minute extensions in continuing resolutions are over. It's time for all parties to come to the table so Congress can do the often dirty job of legislating. The immigrant investor program has made great contributions to our economy. We should not look at its problems today and dismiss it as a failure. Its value was recognized as far back as 1981 by the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy. The Commission concluded that “admitting investors to the United States is in the national interest” and recommended the creation of “a small, numerically limited” visa program for immigrants who could contribute “a substantial amount of investment."Congress listened and created the EB-5 investor program. Customs and Immigration Services has reported that, from its inception in 1990 until 2014, the EB-5 program has created at least 73,730 jobs and generated more than $11.2 billion in investment. We want that capital and we need those jobs.But even if I don't like to admit it, the world has changed since we created the program in 1990. The price of a stamp has doubled. So has the price of milk. The number of millionaires in America has more than tripled. And yet, the minimum investment amounts in the EB-5 program have not increased by even a nickel.Other nations with investor visa programs require much higher investments. Australia’s investor visa program requires up to 11 million U.S. dollars. Canada’s program requires at least one and a half million U.S. dollars in addition to a required personal net worth of over seven million or more U.S. dollars. The United Kingdom’s investor visa program requires at least two and a half million U.S. dollars and millions more for expedited citizenship. There are, of course, some countries that offer cut-rate prices for investment visas, but I for one believe the value of U.S. citizenship is higher than any other country in the world, and I think the cost for becoming a U.S. citizen should be fairly valued at over $500,000. Demand supports my Patriotism because we currently have a seven to eight year backlog for the roughly 10,000 investor green cards available each year. I am not an economist, but when demand is that high, it means the price is too low. An increase in the investment amounts will cause considerably more capital to flow into the U.S.Making matters worse, not only are the required investment levels 25 years out-of-date, but the system has been abused to require less capital than Congress intended. Congress intended the minimum investment for an EB-5 visa to be a million dollars. We then specifically sought to incentivize investments in rural and depressed areas by carving out an exception. In so-called "targeted employment areas," Congress lowered the minimum investment amount to $500,000. Those incentives completely failed, however. The targeted boundaries were gerrymandered, and the million dollar investment level was almost completely ignored. The exception swallowed the rule, and all EB-5 visas are at the $500,000 level, even though the majority of capital flows to affluent areas. Last year, the Department of Homeland Security attempted to address these and other concerns through its rulemaking process. I agree with the intent of DHS’s proposed regulations, but Congress, not the Administration, is situated to weigh the policy considerations necessary to properly reform the investor visa program. I thank the Chairman for holding this hearing. And I thank Senators Leahy and Grassley for crossing over to the wrong side of the tracks to testify here today. The four of us, along with Ranking Member Conyers, and many of the other members of this Committee, have worked to solve a lot of intractable problems over the years, and I look forward to working with you all to reform the EB-5 visa program.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner delivered the following remarks during the House Judiciary Committee’s hearing on the Department of Homeland Security’s Proposed Regulations Reforming the Investor Visa Program: Watch Congressman Sensenbrenner’s remarks here. See full transcript below: For anyone looking for Cliff’s Notes on today's hearing, I can summarize it at the outset into two major points that you’ll hear over and over again: First, the EB-5 investor visa program brings sustained foreign investment and quality jobs to the United States; and second, the program is out of date and has been subject to waste, fraud, and abuse. Any time you have a valuable government program that isn't working as well as it should, it's time for reform. The days of last minute extensions in continuing resolutions are over. It's time for all parties to come to the table so Congress can do the often dirty job of legislating. The immigrant investor program has made great contributions to our economy. We should not look at its problems today and dismiss it as a failure. Its value was recognized as far back as 1981 by the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy. The Commission concluded that “admitting investors to the United States is in the national interest” and recommended the creation of “a small, numerically limited” visa program for immigrants who could contribute “a substantial amount of investment." Congress listened and created the EB-5 investor program. Customs and Immigration Services has reported that, from its inception in 1990 until 2014, the EB-5 program has created at least 73,730 jobs and generated more than $11.2 billion in investment. We want that capital and we need those jobs. But even if I don't like to admit it, the world has changed since we created the program in 1990. The price of a stamp has doubled. So has the price of milk. The number of millionaires in America has more than tripled. And yet, the minimum investment amounts in the EB-5 program have not increased by even a nickel. Other nations with investor visa programs require much higher investments. Australia’s investor visa program requires up to 11 million U.S. dollars. Canada’s program requires at least one and a half million U.S. dollars in addition to a required personal net worth of over seven million or more U.S. dollars. The United Kingdom’s investor visa program requires at least two and a half million U.S. dollars and millions more for expedited citizenship. There are, of course, some countries that offer cut-rate prices for investment visas, but I for one believe the value of U.S. citizenship is higher than any other country in the world, and I think the cost for becoming a U.S. citizen should be fairly valued at over $500,000. Demand supports my Patriotism because we currently have a seven to eight year backlog for the roughly 10,000 investor green cards available each year. I am not an economist, but when demand is that high, it means the price is too low. An increase in the investment amounts will cause considerably more capital to flow into the U.S. Making matters worse, not only are the required investment levels 25 years out-of-date, but the system has been abused to require less capital than Congress intended. Congress intended the minimum investment for an EB-5 visa to be a million dollars. We then specifically sought to incentivize investments in rural and depressed areas by carving out an exception. In so-called "targeted employment areas," Congress lowered the minimum investment amount to $500,000. Those incentives completely failed, however. The targeted boundaries were gerrymandered, and the million dollar investment level was almost completely ignored. The exception swallowed the rule, and all EB-5 visas are at the $500,000 level, even though the majority of capital flows to affluent areas. Last year, the Department of Homeland Security attempted to address these and other concerns through its rulemaking process. I agree with the intent of DHS’s proposed regulations, but Congress, not the Administration, is situated to weigh the policy considerations necessary to properly reform the investor visa program. I thank the Chairman for holding this hearing. And I thank Senators Leahy and Grassley for crossing over to the wrong side of the tracks to testify here today. The four of us, along with Ranking Member Conyers, and many of the other members of this Committee, have worked to solve a lot of intractable problems over the years, and I look forward to working with you all to reform the EB-5 visa program.
03.06.2017	BROOKFIELD,WI – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner held 8 town hall meetings and office hour events throughout Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District over the past three days, meeting with constituents with views spanning the ideological spectrum. Healthy crowds, consisting largely of constituents from the Congressman’s district, gathered to express their views and were recognized one by one during the time allotted for public discussion. As always, constituents experiencing individual problems with federal government agencies were also given time after the public portion of each meeting to speak with Congressman Sensenbrenner about their specific situations. While not everyone had an opportunity to speak in the time allotted, those who were unable to voice an opinion or concern were encouraged to contact the Congressman by phone, email, standard mail, or attend another of his many upcoming in-person meetings. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I hold frequent town hall meetings because I’ve always believed the people deserve to see who represents them, and to have an open forum to voice concerns and discuss the issues. Whether or not we agree, it’s productive to have these conversations – it’s how we grow as a community and a nation.” Differences in policy positions and beliefs aside, many constituents took the time to thank the Congressman for holding in-person meetings, as well as express their appreciation for his willingness to speak to them directly and answer tough questions during a time when many Members of Congress opt to hold tele-town hall meetings or none at all: “Many were grateful Rep. Sensenbrenner came as other Congressman avoid their citizens. ‘We respect that so much about him,’ – Fifth District Constituent “We love Rep. Sensenbrenner’s dedication to traveling all over his district. He held 3 town halls this weekend, and has 7 more this month!” – Town Hall Project “He’s been very helpful, and he does a fantastic job. I’m always amazed at his memory; he knows all these facts and figures. I give him a lot of credit.” – Village of Lannon Trustee Jerry Newman
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After another successful weekend of town hall meetings throughout Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District, Congressman Sensenbrenner continues to be recognized for the frequency in which he holds town hall meetings. In fact, here’s what people are saying about Congressman Sensenbrenner and his ambitious town hall schedule… Sensenbrenner not afraid of town hall meetings– WISN “Wisconsin Republican Representative Jim Sensenbrenner has never been afraid of a debate." “[Sensenbrenner] is undeterred by the tough questions he’s getting these days…” “Representative Sensenbrenner says that no matter how heated people may get, he will keep being accountable to the voters.” Wyden, Sensenbrenner lead February town halls– The Hill “Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) held 16 town hall meetings last month, more than any other member of Congress. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) led the House with 12 events, according to data collected by the independent site Legistorm." GOP lawmakers lead way in holding town halls – The Hill “The 10 lawmakers who have held the most in-person town hall meetings over the last two years are all Republicans. Since the beginning of the 114th Congress in 2015, four Republicans – Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (Wis.), Sens. Mike Crapo (Idaho) and Jerry Moran (Kan.) and former Rep. Tim Huelskamp (Kan.) – held more than 100 in-person town hall meetings.” U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner faces opposition at town hall gathering– Wisconsin State Journal “Many Republican members of Congress have avoided town hall meetings since Trump’s election but Sensenbrenner has a history of holding town halls – he said he has averaged about 100 every year since taking office.” Jim Sensenbrenner holds feisty town hall – Milwaukee Journal Sentinel “Some politicians are wary of holding contentious town hall meetings. But not U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, the dean of the Wisconsin delegation.” Wisconsin Rep. Sensenbrenner On Not Shying Away From Town Halls – NPR “So members of Congress have skipped or canceled planned meetings but not Representative Jim Sensenbrenner… He’s responsible for a quarter of all town halls held by the 289 Republicans in Congress this term.” “Making Sense of Washington: Congressman’s town hall events in Sussex, Lannon get contentious – Northwest NOW “U.S. Rep James Sensenbrenner (R-Menomonee Falls) is no rookie when it comes to town hall meetings; in fact, he has held more in-person meetings than any member of Congress with more than 525 town hall events since 2013.” “Since the start of the year alone, he’s already held nearly 40.” Rep. Sensenbrenner holds well-attended Lake Mills Town Hall – WKOW “Even as some lawmakers are skipping or canceling town halls, Republican Representative Jim Sensenbrenner spent Saturday afternoon with people in Jefferson County at the Lake Mills City Hall.” A list of upcoming meetings is available on Congressman Sensenbrenner’s official website.
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Town hall meetings have garnered national attention over the past month, and there is no name more synonymous with town halls than Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner. It’s only recently that local and national media outlets have turned their attention toward town hall meetings, but Congressman Sensenbrenner has been hosting regular, in-person meetings since his first year in Congress. Fast Facts: • Congressman Sensenbrenner has held 35 town hall meetings already in 2017 • Congressman Sensenbrenner holds more in-person meetings than any Member of Congress • Congressman Sensenbrenner has held 525 town hall meetings since 2013 Congressman Sensenbrenner has received considerable attention lately for doing something he’s always done. In fact, here’s what people are saying about Congressman Sensenbrenner and his ambitious town hall schedule… Sensenbrenner embraces town halls despite protests – The Washington Examiner “Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., is hosting a series of town hall meetings at a break-neck pace, even as many of his Republican colleagues are avoiding in-person, open forum meetings because of a unified, anti-President Trump push from the left." Have Gavel, Will Travel – Roll Call “Wisconsin Republican Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, who has held the most town halls this year.. has prioritized doing town hall events since he first came to Congress in 1979." “Sensenbrenner said his constituents should know he’s still with them.” U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner holds civil town hall in Pewaukee as others turn hostile – Milwaukee Journal Sentinel “Sensenbrenner… routinely holds more town halls each year than nearly all members of Congress…” Constituents pack Pewaukee town hall meeting, present a number of concerns – WTMJ Milwaukee “Jane Speer went on to say she isn’t necessarily in favor of many of the congressman’s policies, but she appreciates the town hall platform he’s provided for citizens to voice their concerns, even if they disagree.” Congressman Sensenbrenner Holds Town Halls in Wisconsin – CBS Milwaukee “Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner is spending the weekend in Wisconsin. He's listening to the concerns of the people he represents.” “Be respectful!” U.S. Rep. Sensenbrenner’s crowded town hall events feature heated exchanges – Fox6 Milwaukee “Sensenbrenner has held the second-most town hall meetings of any congressman since the start of 2014, according to the website Legistorm.” A list of upcoming meetings is available on Congressman Sensenbrenner’s official website.
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on President Trump’s address to the Joint Session of Congress: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “In tonight’s Joint Address, President Trump outlined a straightforward and optimistic vision for the future of this nation. He spoke to the concerns of every American and extended an olive branch across the aisle, highlighting the need to work cooperatively to find serious, lasting solutions to the fundamental issues that weaken our economy, hurt hardworking American families, and threaten our country’s future.”
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reintroduced legislation to prohibit the sale of fetal tissue acquired by performing an abortion. The Safe Responsible, Ethical Scientific Endeavors Assuring Research for Compassionate Healthcare (RESEARCH) Act would amend Section 498A of the Public Health Act to state that human fetal tissue may be used for research purposes, but only if it is obtained as a result of a stillbirth or ectopic pregnancy, not from an abortion procedure. Not only is harvesting and selling fetal tissue a gruesome and horrific process, advancements in medical technology, such as adult stem cell science, has rendered fetal tissue an unnecessary option for medical researchers. The Safe RESEARCH Act would help end this practice and take another important step forward in protecting the lives of our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Due to a poorly drafted section of federal law, Planned Parenthood and other abortion clinics throughout the country are legally able to sell fetal tissue to research institutions. This despicable practice is morally bankrupt, victimizes the defenseless, and increases profits for organizations that have no regard for human life. This legislation is an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to protect innocent lives and fight on behalf of the unborn.” Earlier this month, the Family Research Council announced Congressman Sensenbrenner received a perfect score during the 114th Congress on its annual Vote Scorecard for Members of Congress who demonstrate an unwavering commitment to the protection of unborn children.
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reintroduced the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act, which would allow the protections of the Adam Walsh Protection and Safety Act to continue saving the lives of children throughout the nation. The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act became law in 2006 and has played a vital role in the prevention of sexual exploitation of America’s children. The comprehensive, bipartisan law strengthened sex offender registry requirements and enforcement across the country, as well as extended registry requirements to Native American tribes, increased penalties for child predators, and authorized funding for various programs to strengthen our defenses against child exploitation. This legislation is critical because despite ongoing prevention efforts, the fight against child exploitation is not over. The Justice Department reports that only 17 states, three territories, and 36 Native American tribes have substantially implemented the Sex Offender Management Assistance Program and the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA). Additionally, there are also an estimated 100,000 fugitive sex offenders across the country who are unregistered or in violation of registry requirements. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Childhood sexual abuse is a serious problem facing this nation, and the devastation it causes impacts every societal group, and lasts a lifetime for its victims and their loved ones. Reauthorizing the Adam Walsh Protection and Safety Act would ensure efforts continue to prevent the ongoing sexual exploitation of our nation’s children.” Further details of the proposal include the following: • The Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act would reauthorize the two primary programs of the Adam Walsh Act – The Sex Offender Management Assistance Program and SORNA – for five years. o SORNA sets minimum guidelines for state sex offender registries and establishes the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website, which is a comprehensive national system for the registration and notification to the public of sex offenders. This registry currently contains information on more than 600,000 convicted sex offenders in the United States. o The Sex Offender Management Assistance Program provides funding to the states, tribes, and other jurisdictions to offset the costs of implementing and enhancing SORNA, and funding for the U.S. Marshals Service and other law enforcement agencies to assist jurisdictions in locating and apprehending sex offenders who violate registration requirements. • The Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act makes targeted changes to the SORNA requirements, including giving states more flexibility in classifying sex offenders on their registry, lowering the period that certain juveniles must register to 15 years, and limiting public access to juvenile sex offender information.
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the Functional Gastrointestinal and Motility Disorders Research Enhancement Act of 2017 in the House of Representatives, which requests that the National Institute of Health (NIH) allocate time and already available resources to the research of functional gastrointestinal and motility disorders. Functional gastrointestinal and motility disorders affect two in five Americans, causing great personal hardship on affected individuals and costing society more than $30 billion annually. There are currently no known cures for these disorders, and lack of adequate research provides few treatment options. Further, these disorders are often misdiagnosed and improperly treated, resulting in increased patient suffering and additional financial burdens placed on patients and American taxpayers. The Functional Gastrointestinal and Motility Disorders Research Enhancement Act of 2017 requests that NIH dedicate time and already available resources to the research of functional gastrointestinal and motility disorders in the hope that such research would better equip medical professionals to accurately diagnose and treat these disorders, as well as potentially find lasting cures. Additionally, this legislation will direct the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney diseases to provide continued funding for the advancement of gastrointestinal and motility research. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “America is the world leader in medical research and technological advances. With time and resources dedicated to finding cures, I’m confident that we can help every American suffering with gastrointestinal and motility disorders and drastically improve their quality of life. This fiscally responsible, bipartisan bill received great support during the 114th Congress, and I look forward to working with my colleagues again this session to see it to the finish line.”
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the Build Up Illegal Line Defenses With Assets Lawfully Lifted (BUILD WALL) Act of 2017 in the House of Representatives. As the national conversation on immigration continues to heat up, Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill are working to find solutions that will protect our border while being conscientious of taxpayers’ money. One such solution is Congressman Sensenbrenner’s BUILD WALL Act of 2017. This legislation would require the U.S. Attorney General to provide a detailed report on the amount of annual profits brought into the United States by Mexican drug cartels, as well as a study of how the Department of Justice can increase assets seized from such cartels. Additionally, the BUILD WALL Act would use money forfeited from drug traffickers to fund increased border security on the U.S./ Mexican border. This defense could include a wall, another type of physical barrier, and/or a technology-supported solution. The use of this funding would ease the financial burdens on taxpayers and help build stronger relations between the United States and Mexico while fighting back against drug trafficking in both countries. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Border security is imperative for a safe, prosperous nation and lawmakers must take a serious approach to solving the issues of illegal immigration and drug trafficking. If we do nothing, we put the people of this nation at risk, as well as allow illegal immigrants to take away jobs, opportunities, and social funding from U.S. citizens – all at the expense of the American taxpayer. The BUILD WALL Act is a creative solution to a complex problem and I encourage my colleagues to support it.”
02.13.2017	BROOKFIELD,WI – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner held 12 town hall meetings throughout Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District over the past four days, meeting with constituents with views spanning the ideological spectrum. Record crowds, consisting mostly of constituents from the Congressman’s district, gathered to express their views and were recognized one by one during the time allotted for public discussion. Constituents experiencing individual problems with federal government agencies were also given time after the public portion of each meeting to speak with Congressman Sensenbrenner about their specific situations. Safety protocol made it difficult for everyone interested in attending from participating in the meeting, however individuals wishing to express their views have, and will continue to have, various ways of contacting the Congressman, including phone, standard mail, email, and social media, as well as a significant number of additional town hall meetings. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I have always been accessible to my constituents and have shown respect for their opinions and concerns, even when they don’t agree with my positions on issues. Open and honest discourse between elected officials and the citizens they represent is the only way to find solutions to the problems facing our nation, and as long as I have the privilege to serve Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District, I will continue to provide my constituents with an opportunity and a forum to respectfully express their views and offer their ideas.” Fast Facts: • Congressman Sensenbrenner has held 30 town hall meetings already in 2017 • Congressman Sensenbrenner holds more in-person meetings than any Member of Congress • Congressman Sensenbrenner has held 520 town hall meetings since 2013 • Congressman Sensenbrenner personally signs roughly 300,000 constituent letters annually While not everyone shared like-minded policy positions and beliefs, a resounding chorus throughout all events was one of thanks to the Congressman for his willingness to regularly host meetings and providing constituents an opportunity to speak to him directly: “He’s listening to people… He’s honest in stating his views [although they] may not agree with many of the people who come.”—Jane Speer, Fifth District constituent “[Congressman Sensenbrenner] strikes me as a little more personable; I actually found some common ground here and there.”—Aaron Madison, Fifth District constituent “I’ve disagreed with you often over the years and I ran against you in 2014, but I always respected you for the way you have conducted yourself in office, constituent service, and because you maintain your reasonable level of respect for voting rights and civil liberties.” –Chris Rockwood, former Democratic candidate for Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Each year, CQ releases a comprehensive vote study featuring the records of each Member of Congress. For the second year in a row, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner obtained a perfect voting record of 100 percent by not missing a single vote. Only 15 out of the 435 Members in the House of Representatives achieved this rating. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Serving the citizens of Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District is a responsibility that I have never taken lightly. Each year, I host more than 100 public events, such as town hall meetings and office hours, and respond to thousands of constituent comments submitted by phone, mail, and email. These avenues of open communication make it possible for me to thoughtfully perform my essential duty of voting on the House floor on behalf of my constituents, and I’m extremely proud of my consistent voting record. I’m humbled to serve as Wisconsin’s Fifth District representative, and I will continue working diligently on behalf of my constituents as long as I serve in the United States House of Representatives.” The complete vote study scores can be found in the February 6, 2017 edition of CQ.
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced two bills aimed at reforming the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) and the national biofuels mandate. Taken together, these bills call for the additional study and evaluation of our ever-increasing ethanol mandate and to ensure Environmental Protection Agency volume obligations for biofuels are based in reality. The first bill, the comprehensive mid-level ethanol assessment legislation, requires the National Academy of Sciences to provide a comprehensive assessment of research on the implications of the use of mid-level ethanol blends – fuel containing more than 10 percent ethanol by volume – compared to gasoline blends containing 10 percent or zero percent ethanol. The study will evaluate the performance, safety, and environmental impact of mid-level ethanol blended fuels. The second bill focuses on cellulosic biofuel assessment. This legislation relaxes the Environmental Protection Agency’s volume requirements for cellulosic biofuel under the RFS to what is commercially available until the National Academy of Sciences submits to Congress a report on the environmental and economic impacts of cellulosic biofuel, and the feasibility of large scale commercial production. These common sense bills ensure that hardworking American fuel consumers are not needlessly subjected to ineffectual and burdensome government regulations. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As a former member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I have always believed science-based decision making must guide our assessment of the RFS and the effects this policy has had on consumers, our economy, and our environment. This is especially true in a state like Wisconsin, where the use of recreational vehicles and marine engines is a way of life for many of its residents.”
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on President Trump's nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Throughout his career, Judge Gorsuch has proven himself an ardent defender of the Constitution, a true advocate for the sanctity of human life, and a prudent judicial practitioner who has served with humility, integrity, and candor. If approved to the United States Supreme Court, I have no doubt he will continue to serve the American people with honor and the utmost respect for the laws of this nation.”
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reintroduced the Ensuring Access to Quality Complex Rehabilitation Technology Act, which would help ensure patients with disabilities or severe medical conditions have access to highly-specialized, custom medical equipment. The Ensuring Access to Quality Complex Rehabilitation Technology Act establishes a distinct Medicare benefit category for complex rehabilitation technology products (CRT), such as specialized power wheelchairs and adaptive seating systems. It would also allow the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to better target its payment and coverage policies by adopting higher quality standards for suppliers, improving oversight to prevent fraud and abuse, and expanding eligibility criteria for beneficiaries. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As a leader in the fight for the rights of the disabled, I want to ensure all Americans have access to the tools needed to live each day to the fullest. Disabled Americans should not be denied rehabilitation or medical equipment that can enable them to live and work freely and independently. With increased flexibility and proper oversight, we can help those in need while inhibiting fraud and abuse.” The Ensuring Access to Quality Complex Rehabilitation Technology Act is supported by multiple patient, medical professional and supplier organizations, including: American Association for Homecare, American Physical Therapy Association, Brain Injury Association of America, Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation, Easter Seals, National Association for Home Care & Hospice, National Coalition for Assistive and Rehab Technology, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and the United Spinal Association.
01.29.2017	Congressman Sensenbrenner: "After a town hall meeting, I was pressed to answer questions about whether the President's immigration pause should apply to green card holders. I do not believe it is right to ban green card holders from entering the United States absent evidence of a threat, regardless of where they are from. I misspoke and I apologize for the confusion.. In terms of the pause itself, it's important to emphasize that this isn't about religious affiliation, it's about national security and keeping Americans safe. This is a temporary ban so the government can ensure we have sufficient screening policies in place. While the majority of people seeking to enter the United States are peaceful, it only takes one individual to wreak havoc. I will never support a blanket ban on any religious group, but we have to do everything we can, consistent with our values as Americans, to protect the freedom and security of the American people."
01.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s recent executive order on privacy rights: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I urge our European allies to be patient as we transition into the new Administration, especially referring to President Trump’s new executive order on privacy. The order specifically says, “to the extent applicable with current law.” That means that all current laws supporting the Privacy Shield and the Umbrella Agreement remain in full effect. This includes the Judicial Redress Act. It would take an act of Congress to repeal it and there is no effort I’m aware of in either Congress or the Administration to do so. I remain committed to supporting both the Privacy Shield and the Umbrella Agreement—they are important pillars supporting the Transatlantic Relationship. I am prepared to defend them if they’re challenged, but the Trump administration has not done anything to undermine them. This is a false alarm.”
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner has been named a new Co-chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. He will serve in this new role alongside Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Paul Tonko (D-NY) and Dave Joyce (R-OH). The Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus works to educate and raise awareness among lawmakers about addiction prevention, treatment and substance abuse. Opioid deaths have surpassed 30,000 for the first time in history, while nearly 88,000 people die from alcohol-related causes each year. Substance abuse costs our nation $600 billion in health care, criminal justice, and lost productivity costs, but that is nothing compared to the toll it takes on our families and friends. Preventing the further spread of this epidemic is essential to our nation’s complete recovery. The Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus aims to stop these devastating trends by bringing awareness to this cause and changing the stigma associated with addiction and mental illness. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The dramatic rise in heroin and opioid addiction is causing devastation in Wisconsin and throughout the United States. It is ruining thousands of lives and destroying entire communities in its wake. I look forward to continuing the fight against addiction through the work of this caucus, and together with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I’m optimistic we can pass serious, common-sense solutions to help every American suffering under the weight of addiction.”
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) announced that Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner will be joining the House Foreign Affairs Committee for the 115th Congress. Congressman Sensenbrenner’s distinguished reputation overseas and extensive legislative work on international issues makes him an immediate asset to the Foreign Affairs Committee. He has a successful record of promoting and brokering trans-Atlantic trust and cooperation, and is one of the most respected Members of Congress in Europe and Asia. Two of his most prominent accomplishments of the 114th Congress include the USA FREEDOM Act and the Judicial Redress Act, both signed into law by President Obama and influential in the rebuilding of America’s international reputation and trust between allied nations after the Edward Snowden revelations. Sensenbrenner was similarly influential in the negotiations between the United States and Puerto Rico regarding the Island’s financial hardships. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The important work of the Foreign Affairs Committee is essential for a safe and prosperous America. I’m looking forward to joining my colleagues on the Committee in promoting social and economic stability here and overseas, producing smart legislation that will secure and strengthen our international relationships, and upholding and honoring our commitments as a world leader.” Official approval of this committee assignment will be finalized after an upcoming vote in the full House of Representatives.
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Eric Swalwell (D-CA) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Rapid DNA Act. This legislation would establish a system to enable law enforcement officials to use Rapid DNA instruments to help reduce DNA backlogs. Unlike traditional DNA analysis, which can take weeks, Rapid DNA analysis permits processing of DNA samples in approximately 90 minutes or less. This technology has the potential to revolutionize the way in which individuals arrested for crimes are enrolled in the criminal justice system, to shorten the time required for their DNA to be linked to unsolved crimes, and to expedite the exoneration of innocent suspects. The Rapid DNA Act will give law enforcement officials a new system that meets FBI quality assurance standards to compare DNA samples collected at the time of an arrest to profiles in the FBI’s Combined DNA Index System (CODIS.) The legislation has strong support from across the law enforcement community, including the National Fraternal Order of Police, International Association of Chiefs of Police, Major City Chiefs Association, National Association of Police Organizations, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, and National District Attorneys Association, as well as the Consortium of Forensic Science Organizations. In testimony before Congress last year, FBI Director James Comey said the authority in the bill would help law enforcement “change the world in a very, very exciting way” by enabling officials to know “near-instantly” whether a person in custody is connected with other crimes or is innocent of the suspected charge. For further details on the bill, click here. Senator Hatch: “As FBI Director James Comey said last year in testimony before Congress, the Rapid DNA Act will help law enforcement ‘change the world in a very, very exciting way.’ It will enable officers to take advantage of exciting new developments in DNA technology to more quickly solve crimes and exonerate innocent suspects. Under this legislation, rather than having to all send DNA samples to crime labs and wait weeks for results, trained officers will be able to process many samples in less than two hours. This legislation passed the Senate unanimously last Congress and very nearly passed the House. I intend to work closely with my colleagues this Congress to get it across the finish line and to the President’s desk.” Senator Feinstein: "When an individual is arrested, it can often take months to process their DNA sample to determine whether their DNA profiles match other crimes. Our bill will address this delay by requiring the FBI to issue guidelines for local jurisdictions to use standardized Rapid DNA technology. This technology will reduce processing time from months to just hours, allowing the police to quickly advance investigations and protect the public.”? Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Rapid DNA technology is an effective tool for law enforcement that will help quickly identify arrestees and offenders and reduce the overwhelming backlog in forensic DNA analysis. It will make crime fighting efforts more efficient and help prevent future crimes from occurring, which saves time and taxpayer dollars. I look forward to working with Senators Hatch and Feinstein, Representative Swalwell and all my colleagues in both the House and Senate to ensure this common-sense legislation is passed.” Congressman Swalwell: “As an Alameda County prosecutor, I learned all too well that a DNA backlog leaves crimes unsolved, leaves the public unprotected, and leaves victims crying out for justice – none of which are acceptable. DNA can be a powerful law-enforcement tool when samples are tested in a timely fashion, and this legislation will help provide that tool to police agencies across the nation, to all Americans’ benefit.”
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reintroduced the ATF Elimination Act, legislation that would dissolve the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and merge its exclusive duties into existing federal agencies. Additionally, the Act calls for an immediate hiring freeze at the agency and requires the Department of Justice (DOJ) to eliminate and reduce duplicative functions and waste, as well as report to Congress with a detailed plan on how the transition will take place. Further, it would transfer enforcement of firearms, explosives and arson laws to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and illegal diversion of alcohol and tobacco products would be transferred to the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA). Under this bill, the DEA and FBI would be required to submit to Congress a plan for winding down the affairs of the ATF after no more than 180 days, and field offices, along with other buildings and assets of the ATF, would be transferred to the FBI. It would have one year to report excess property to the General Services Administration (GSA). Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Despite our country being trillions of dollars in debt, government spending continues to rise. Common sense budgeting solutions are necessary, and the ATF Elimination Act is one measure we can take to reduce spending, redundancy, and practice responsible governance. The ATF is a scandal-ridden, largely duplicative agency that has been branded by failure and lacks a clear mission. It is plagued by backlogs, funding gaps, hiring challenges, and a lack of leadership. These facts make it a logical place to begin draining the swamp and acting in the best interest of the American taxpayer.”
01.11.2017	BROOKFIELD, WI – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner announced that 30 students from Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District have received nominations to the U.S. service academies. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The students selected this year as nominees to the United States service academies are upstanding individuals who will make their families, friends, and communities proud in both their academic and professional endeavors. A strong country needs strong leaders, and I have no doubt that these accomplished young men and women will dutifully serve their country and lead this nation into a brighter future.” Nominees for the United States service academies were chosen from an impressive group of qualified applicants residing throughout Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District. The Congressman’s Academy Selection Committee put forth its recommendations for nomination after reviewing each individual candidate and conducting in-person interviews. Of the 30 students, five have been named principal nominees. If the principal nominee meets the academic, physical, and medical standards set by the academy, they are assured an offer of appointment to the academy. If a principal nominee does not qualify or chooses not to attend, the alternates compete for the vacancy. Alternates are also part of a pool of applicants from which the academies will select the incoming class. All but one nominee are listed below, and photos of these participating principal and competing nominees are available upon request. Principal Nominees: Jonathan Lee of Brookfield has been named a principal nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY. Jonathan, son of Kenneth and Kate Lee, attends Brookfield Academy. Noah Jensen of Brookfield has been named a principal nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Noah, son of Joel and Carrie Jensen, attends Brookfield Academy. Eric Wunsch of Menomonee Falls has been named a principal nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Eric, son Jon and Nancy Wunsch, attends Menomonee Falls High School. Emma Hutchinson of Brookfield has been named a principal nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Emma, daughter of Patrick and Stephanie Hutchinson, attends Divine Savior Holy Angels High School. Matthew Malone of Pewaukee has been named a principal nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY. Matthew, son of Daniel and Trudy Malone, attends Marquette University High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Jefferson County: Steven Jonas of Watertown has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Steven, son of Brian and Lyn Jonas, attends Watertown High School. Competing Alternate Nominee from Milwaukee County: Christopher Slosar of West Allis has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY and the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Christopher, son of Richard and Sharon Slosar, attends St. John’s Northwestern Military Academy. Competing Alternate Nominees from Washington County: Victoria Burns of West Bend has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Victoria, daughter of Thomas and Donna Burns, attends West Bend West High School. Nickolas Rasimus of Hubertus has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Nickolas, son of Keith and Amy Rasimus, attends Slinger High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Waukesha County: Alexandria Bullen of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY. Alexandria, daughter of Ronald and Susan Bullen, attends the US Military Academy Preparatory School. Andrew Bullen of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY. Andrew, the son of Ronald and Susan Bullen, attends the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School. Anthony Burzinski of Menomonee Falls has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Anthony, son of Joseph and Karen Burzinski, attends Menomonee Falls High School. Alexander Carter of Oconomowoc has been named as an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Alexander, son of Paul and Angelique Carter, attends Oconomowoc High School. Maxwell Cavadel of Menomonee Falls has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Maxwell, son of Glenn and Christina Cavadel, attends Hamilton High School. Parker Ellis of Oconomowoc has been named as an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Parker, son of Kevin and Julie Ellis, attends Oconomowoc High School. Michael Elwing of Brookfield has been named as an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Michael, son of Michael and Holly Elwing, attends Brookfield Central High School. Ryan Hayward of Okauchee has been named as an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Ryan, son of Christopher and Meaghan Hayward, attends Lake Country Lutheran High School. Jacob Hoeg of Waukesha has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Jacob, son of Timothy and Kelly Hoeg, attends Waukesha North High School. Benjamin Johnson of Lisbon has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Benjamin, son of Jeffrey and Debra Johnson, attends Lake Country Lutheran High School. Joseph Neimon of Delafield has been named an alternate nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Joseph, son of Michael and Kerry Neimon, attends Kettle Moraine High School. John Otten of Menomonee Falls has been named an alternate nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. John, son of Mark and Janet Otten, attends Marquette University High School. Michael Puetz of Oconomowoc has been named an alternate nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Michael, son of Michael and Dawn Puetz, attends Oconomowoc High School. Henry Rahmes of New Berlin has been named an alternate nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Henry, son of Michael and Sara Rahmes, attends New Berlin West High School. Mackenzie Robertson of Menomonee Falls has been named an alternate nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Mackenzie, daughter of Troy and Dr. Felicia Robertson, attends Menomonee Falls High School. Jack Schaefer of Hartland has been named an alternate nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY, the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Jack, son of Michael Schaefer and Samantha Gillette, attends Arrowhead High School. Maxwell Schroeder of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Maxwell, son of William and Lisa Schroeder, attends Brookfield Central. Max Stergiades of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to the U.S. Air Force in Colorado Springs, CO and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Max, son of Nicholas and Peggy Stergiades, attends Brookfield East High School. Dann Wilson of Pewaukee has been named an alternate nominee to the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Dann, son of Dann and Monica Wilson, attends the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater. Congressman Sensenbrenner is currently accepting nomination applications from Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District for those who would like to enter any United States service academy in the summer of 2018. Inquiries concerning this process can be made to the Congressman’s district office in Brookfield at (262) 784-1111, or online at Sensenbrenner.house.gov.
01.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the Working Parents Tax Relief Act, legislation that would amend the Internal Revenue (IRS) Code of 1986 in order to help make the cost of childcare more affordable for Wisconsin families. Under the employer-sponsored Dependent Care Assistance Program, eligible employees may reduce their taxable income by setting aside money from their paycheck, prior to taxes being taken out, to pay for dependent care expenses, including child care, elder care and extended care. Currently, individuals may only set aside $5,000 per year and are unable to roll-over unused funds to the next year. Sensenbrenner’s Working Parents Tax Relief Act would increase the amount available under DCAP from $5,000 to $7,500, index the benefit amount to inflation, and allow plan participants to roll-over unused funds into the following year. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The cost of reliable, quality dependent care, especially childcare, has risen dramatically over the years. Changes to the Dependent Care Assistance Program are necessary to give our hardworking families a hand up and ensure our businesses have a focused, productive workforce.” Background: • The Dependent Care Assistance Program (DCAP) acts as flexible spending account which can be used to pay for eligible dependent care expenses. • Expenses must be incurred from the care of dependents under the age of 13, or older dependents incapable of caring for themselves, and must be needed to allow employees to work. • The money set aside is pretax, which has the effect of lowering an individual’s taxable income. Under current law, each household may set aside up to $5,000 annually. This limit has been in effect since 1986, despite the fact that the cost of care has significantly increased.
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sensenbrenner released the following statement congratulating friend and colleague Paul Ryan on being reelected by the House of Representatives to serve a second term as Speaker: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Paul Ryan is a conservative leader whose unwavering work ethic, measured legislative instincts, and unfailing optimism make him an effective and capable Speaker of the House. During his first term as Speaker, Paul demonstrated a structured and cohesive approach to legislating that was inclusive, innovative, and inspired. Under his leadership, House Republicans have coalesced under the Better Way agenda and will move forward to enact meaningful reforms on behalf of the American people. As we begin this new Congress, I look forward to continuing to work with Speaker Ryan and my colleagues in the House to give America a better way forward.”
12.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch urging her and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to reform civil asset forfeiture and protect Americans’ private property. The letter also calls into question the DOJ’s guidelines and restrictions on the equitable sharing program: Dear Attorney General Lynch, I continue to worry about conflicts of interest with federal forfeiture and the equitable sharing program. Forfeiture is a valuable law enforcement tool, but you don’t have to be Adam Smith to recognize that allowing law enforcement to profit from seizing goods provides a strong incentive for them to seize private property. This incentive, coupled with procedural protections best described as embarrassing for a constitutional democracy, have led to an outright assault on private property rights. My former colleague Henry Hyde described civil asset forfeiture as an “unrelenting government assault on property rights, fueled by a dangerous and emotional vigilante mentality that sanctions shredding the U.S. Constitution into meaningless confetti.” I’ll add that the equitable sharing program reads like a thoughtful and earnest attempt to institutionalize corruption. It is no wonder that the Cato Institute recently found that 84% of Americans are opposed to civil forfeiture. I agree that forfeiture, when utilized appropriately, can be a useful tool, and that its proponents are dedicated public servants fighting to protect Americans. I have fought my entire career to defend law enforcement and will continue to do so in the future. My efforts to reform forfeiture are not an attack on law enforcement, but rather an honest effort to square the forfeiture program with constitutionally guaranteed property rights and public expectations. A program opposed by 84% of Americans is not one that can survive long term and failure to reform it jeopardizes the forfeiture tool itself. In the Department of Justice’s Guide to Equitable Sharing, the Department expressly forbids the use of equitable sharing funds to pay the salaries of law enforcement personnel. According to the Department, the purpose of the rule is to “protect the integrity of the Asset Forfeiture and Equitable Sharing Programs so that the prospect of receiving equitable sharing funds does not influence, or appear to influence, law enforcement decisions.” Clearly, the Department worries that if law enforcement salaries depended upon forfeiture, then the incentive to participate in forfeitures would negatively affect property rights. But if, as the Department acknowledges, using forfeiture funds to pay salaries would create an actual or apparent conflict of interest, then the fact that money is fungible ensures that it is in fact creating an actual or apparent conflict of interest. Worse still, the Department appears to brief state and local law enforcement on ways to avoid the restriction on using forfeiture to pay law enforcement salaries. The attached PowerPoint presentation first describes the restrictions, but later spells out how to avoid them. The Department advises: “Your agency has appropriated funds for fleet maintenance, but wishes to increase your salary payments. Because increasing salaries is not permitted but fleet maintenance is, you can increase salaries with appropriated funds and the[n] maintain the fleet with sharing funds, so long as your overall budget does not decrease.” The questions this advice raises are obvious, but I would nonetheless appreciate a response before the end of the year. 1. Does the equitable sharing program create incentives to seize property that risk private property rights? 2. Are the Department’s guidelines and restrictions on the program sufficient to combat these incentives? 3. If using forfeiture funds to pay salaries creates problems, should the Department not only allow, but expressly encourage local and state law enforcement to eschew the restriction? I appreciate your response by December 29, 2016. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner Chairman Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations House Judiciary Committee
12.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, the CATO Institute and YouGov released a survey that found 84 percent of Americans across the political and societal spectrums oppose the practice of civil asset forfeiture. Civil asset forfeiture is a tool law enforcement officials and departments use to seize property that they believe has been involved in criminal activity. It isn’t necessary for individuals to be found guilty of a crime before their property is seized. Rather, asset forfeiture proceedings charge the individual’s property, such as a car, home, or money, of criminal involvement. The process to regain seized property is difficult, time-consuming, and expensive. According to the survey, 86 percent of African Americans, 84 percent of whites, and 80 percent of Hispanics oppose the practice. Further, 87 percent of Independents, 86 percent of Democrats, and 76 percent of Republicans oppose civil asset forfeiture. Earlier this year, Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced the DUE PROCESS Act, legislation that builds upon changes made in the 2000 Civil Action Forfeiture Reform Act by increasing transparency in the civil asset forfeiture process, adding protections for innocent property owners, and implementing additional protections to ensure property owners have the opportunity to contest seizures. The legislation would also improve the notice that the government must give property owners and makes it easier for them to be heard by a judge. Additionally, the DUE PROCESS Act entitles property owners to an initial hearing, where they can retrieve confiscated property immediately if it was not seized according to the law. It increases the availability of attorney fees for innocent owners, and places a higher burden of proof on the government. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Forfeiture is a critical tool in the fight against crime, but it is also vulnerable to abuse. The results found in the CATO Institute/YouGov survey express the broad dissatisfaction with our current system, and highlight the need for meaningful reform. Congress must address civil asset forfeiture in the upcoming session and move forward to enact purposeful and significant changes to curb abuse, restore confidence in law enforcement, and help citizens protect their property rights.”
12.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today marks the last legislative work day of the 114th Congress. As Congress closes out its current session, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner ranks among the most active and influential Members in the House of Representatives. Over the course of the 114th Congress, Congressman Sensenbrenner held more than 250 individual town hall meetings and offices hours throughout the communities of Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District. He attended more than 150 community events, personally responded to more than 300,000 constituent letters and emails, and continued his quarterly district newsletters, providing further information about his work in Congress and promoting government transparency. Further, Congressman Sensenbrenner kept his promise to constituents to remain vigilant in providing federal agency oversight. During the 114th Congress, he sent 15 oversight letters to various agencies, defending the best interests of the American taxpayers by holding unelected bureaucrats accountable. Serving as one of the most effective Members in the House of Representatives, Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced an impressive 38 bills this Congress, two of which were signed into law by President Barack Obama, including the Judicial Redress Act of 2015 and the USA FREEDOM Act of 2015. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I’m extremely proud to represent the people of Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District, and of the work I’ve done on their behalf. As the current Congress comes to an end, it’s important to reflect upon successes, as well as examine and improve initiatives for the upcoming Congress. I look forward to the beginning of the next session under a newly unified government, and to continue serving the Fifth District with ardor, integrity, and effective legislating.” Complete list of bills introduced in the 114th Congress: • H.R. 21; to provide for a comprehensive assessment of the scientific and technical research on the implications of the use of mid-level ethanol blends, and for other purposes • H.R. 320; the Rapid DNA Act of 2015 • H.R. 390; Moving Obstructed Trains In-between Openings Now (MOTION) Act • H.R. 885; the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015 • H.R. 953; the Comprehensive Addition and Recovery Act of 2015 • H.R. 1056; Nuclear Terrorism Conventions Implementation and Safety of Maritime Navigation Act of 2015 • H.R. 1087; the Wireless Telecommunications Tax and Fee Collection Fairness Act of 2015 • H.R. 1329; the ATF Elimination Act • H.R. 1426; the Public Access to Public Science Act • H.R. 1428; the Judicial Redress Act of 2015 • H.R. 1516; the Ensuring Access to Quality Complex Rehabilitation Technology Act of 2015 • H.R. 1593; the United States Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs Act of 2015 • H.R. 1791; the Grace Period Restoration Act of 2015 • H.R. 1861; the Stop Motorcycle Checkpoint Funding Act • H.R. 2048; the Uniting and Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ensuring Effective Discipline Over Monitoring (USA FREEDOM) Act of 2015 • H.R. 2311; the Functional Gastrointestinal and Motility Disorders Research Enhancement Act of 2015 • H.R. 2679; the Tibetan Refugee Assistance Act of 2015 • H.R. 2864; To prohibit the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency from extending the renewable fuel program past 2022 if the Administrator waives applicable volume requirements in prior years • H.R. 2944; the Sensenbrenner-Scott Over-Criminalization Task Force Safe, Accountable, Fair, Effective Justice Reinvestment Act of 2015 • H.R. 3013; the Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2015 • H.R. 3171; To amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit certain research on the transplantation of human fetal tissue obtained pursuant to an abortion • H.R. 3228; To require that until a comprehensive study is completed, the volume of cellulosic biofuel mandated under the renewable fuel program be limited to what is commercially available, and for other purposes • H.R.3406; the Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2015 • H.R. 3407; To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to remove the deduction for charitable contributions from the overall limitation on itemized deductions • H.R. 3511; the National Scenic Trails Parity Act • H.R. 3729; the Safe RESEARCH Act • H.R. 3730; To authorize unused visas numbers made available under section 101(a)(15)E(iii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act to be made available to nationals of Ireland, and for other purposes • H.R. 4002; the Criminal Code Improvement Act of 2015 • H.R. 4259; To prohibit the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency from establishing, implementing, or enforcing any limit on the aggregate emissions of carbon dioxide from a State or any category or subcategory of sources within a State • H.R. 4357; the Volatility and Losses Undermining Earnings Act of 2016 • H.R. 5046; the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016 • H.R. 5283; the Deterring Undue Enforcement by Protecting Rights of Citizens from Excessive Searches and Seizures (DUE PROCESS) Act of 2016 • H.R. 5893; the No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2016 • H.R. 5971; To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the amount excludable from gross income for dependent care assistance and dependent care flexible spending arrangements and to provide for a carryover of unused dependent care benefits in dependent care flexible spending arrangements • H.R. 6042; To nullify certain proposed regulations relating to restrictions on liquidation of an interest with respect to estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer taxes • H.R. 6133; the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2016 • H. Res. 218; Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding the conditions for the United States becoming a signatory to an international agreement on greenhouse gas emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change • H. Res. 302; Observing the 100th birthday of the late Les Paul, the “Wizard of Waukesha”, and honoring his contributions to the American music industry
12.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner signed on to the following letter to National Guard Bureau Chief General Joseph L. Lengyel and Air National Guard Director Lieutenant General Leon Scott Rice, urging them to maintain RC-26B aircraft at Truax Field Air National Guard Base located in Madison, Wisconsin: Dear General Lengyel and Lieutenant General Rice: We write again to express our strong support for the current posture and location of the RC-26B in each of our communities. As you know, the RC-26B has proven itself a remarkable asset for the Air National Guard (ANG). This versatile aircraft has been utilized to assist law enforcements’ response to natural disasters, counterdrug missions, and special operations missions abroad. Given the RC-26B’s role as the ANG’s only manned, domestic Incident Awareness and Assessment aircraft, we believe it is vital to maintain its current posture in order to ensure its efficacy domestically. The ability of this aircraft to support a variety of missions throughout the country is in large part a result of its current basing strategy. Keeping the RC-26B located in Alabama, Arizona, California, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin ensures the West Coast, South, Midwest, and East Coast will have this asset available to respond quickly to natural disasters, hurricanes, wildfires, missing persons, and terrorist attacks. Currently, the aircraft is engaged in counter-cartel operations on the southern border, a mission likely to be in play long into the future. For example, the RC-26B provided critical support in the aftermath of hurricane Katrina. Several ANG units from the region flew 10-12 hour missions daily on a total of six aircraft. The unique capabilities of the RC-26B mission system were instrumental in the success of search and rescue. Moreover, after the September 11th attacks, the aircraft’s mission expanded to provide support for a wide array of missions – including presidential support and humanitarian missions. While we understand there are discussions underway to consolidate the RC-26B away from the current basing strategy, we believe any consolidation that does not consider our ability to respond quickly to natural disasters and other domestic missions would be detrimental to its efficacy as a first responder to disaster-related events. In light of this, we urge the Air National Guard Bureau to keep the current RC-26B basing strategy. Thank you for your continued leadership of the National Guard and Air National Guard, and for your consideration of this matter.
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to President-elect Donald Trump, urging him to meet with the Dalai Lama and continue the United States’ strong relationship with Tibet once in office: Dear President-elect Trump: As you meet with various world leaders in preparation for assuming your role as President, I would like to take the opportunity to suggest that you meet with His Holiness the Dalai Lama. In 2008, I had the honor of meeting the Dalai lama, Tibet’s spiritual leader and historic head of State. Since his exile from Tibet 57 years ago, the Dalai Lama has been a strong and persistent advocate for a peaceful resolution to the tension between Tibet and China. In 1989, the Dalai Lama was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his work in furthering the peaceful protest of the Chinese occupation of Tibet. In 2007, he was awarded the Congressional Gold Medal by President George W. Bush. These awards are just a small bit of recognition for the unwavering commitment to peaceful Tibetan independence that the Dalai Lama has demonstrated throughout his time as Tibet’s spiritual leader. Tibetans have the right to preserve their culture, heritage, language, and religion. Over the years, the Tibetan people have undergone a constant struggle to free themselves from the Chinese government and to preserve these basic freedoms. However, the People’s Republic of China continues to refuse to acknowledge the autonomy of the Tibetan people, and have cracked down on protests and demonstrations by Tibetans. Throughout the course of the last half-century, America has had a strong and stable relationship with the people and government of Tibet. I hope you will continue this strong relationship with Tibet, as well as promote peace between Tibet and the People’s Republic of China. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 heads to President Obama to be signed into law after passing both the House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. Among other things, the Act will provide a pay raise to active duty service members, funding for military readiness and ongoing operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Europe, and encourage advancement of military technology and innovation. Also included in the bill is a Sensenbrenner provision to encourage the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) to expand the use of electronic quality management systems to help the agency conduct thorough and timely audits. This good government provision will help ensure defense contracts aren’t needlessly delayed, costs are kept in check, and errors are caught and addressed in a timely fashion to produce better results Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Keeping this nation safe is Congress’ number one priority – this bipartisan, bicameral bill does exactly that while simultaneously helping our military service members get the benefits they’ve earned and deserve.” The NDAA passed the House of Representatives 375-34 and the U.S. Senate 92-7.
12.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement congratulating House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) on being voted by the House Republican Caucus to continue his service as House Judiciary Chairman: Congressman Sensenbrenner:“Chairman Goodlatte has been a steady hand guiding the House Judiciary Committee through some of Congress’s most intricate and complex legislation. Under his strong leadership, the Committee has pursued an ambitious agenda, accomplishing significant, bipartisan legislative achievements. I look forward to working with him and the Committee in the new Congress.”
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the passing of former Wisconsin Congressman Melvin Laird: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Congressman Laird committed his life to public service and his fellow Americans. His accomplished legislative record and distinguished service at the Department of Defense made him well-respected among his colleagues and one of the most effective leaders in Washington. Although today we mourn his passing, we must also celebrate his illustrious life and legacy.”
11.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement congratulating friend and colleague Speaker of the House Paul Ryan on his unanimous backing by fellow House Republicans for another term as Speaker: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Speaker Ryan is a true conservative leader who exemplifies what it means to serve others. His unfailing optimism inspires his colleagues, and his unique brand of leadership encourages an inclusive, open process that strengthens trust and builds positive, effective relationships. His ambitious plan to give America a better way forward makes it no surprise that he was unanimously selected by his peers to serve another term as Speaker. I look forward to continuing to work with him as we head into a new Congress.”
11.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement congratulating Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus on his appointment as President-elect Donald J. Trump’s chief of staff: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “President-elect Trump’s choice to name Chairman Reince Priebus as his chief of staff is not only a wise decision for his administration, but also a true victory for the American people. Reince will be an astute advisor, advocating for the core conservative values that are fundamental to our nation’s prosperity. I have had the distinct privilege of working with him as he successfully reinvigorated the Republican Party and united Americans in a new, transformative way. He has proven himself time and again to be an effective leader, and I look forward to continue working with him in his new role.”
10.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a House Judiciary Committee hearing on September 28, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner questioned FBI Director James Comey on a number of issues the Agency has faced over the past year, including its role in the investigation into Secretary Clinton’s private email servers. In the course of that interaction, Mr. Sensenbrenner highlighted concerns about the handling of the investigation and questioned Mr. Comey on whether any new information suggesting potentially criminal activity conducted by Mrs. Clinton would warrant a reopening of the investigation, to which Mr. Comey replied, “I haven’t seen anything that would come near to that kind of situation.” Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The details of this case and the mishandling of the investigation have been troubling since the beginning. Last month, I voiced concerns about damning new information coming to light and they were all but dismissed. As the FBI examines newly found emails linked to this case, it’s my hope that Mr. Comey and his Bureau are more scrupulous than they were in their previous endeavors.” Watch the exchange here. See full transcript below: FJS: Thank you Mr. Chairman. Director Comey, welcome. Who authorized granting Cheryl Mills’ immunity? JC: It was a decision made by the Department of Justice; I don’t know at what kind of level inside. In our investigations, anything - any kind of immunity - comes from the prosecutors, not the investigators. FJS: Okay, did she request immunity? JC: I don’t know for sure what the negotiations involved. I believe her lawyer asked for act-of-production immunity with respect to the production of her laptop. That’s my understanding, but again the FBI wasn’t a part of those conversations. FJS: Now, it’s been a matter of public record that Secretary Clinton brought nine people into the room where two FBI agents were questioning her; is that normal practice? JC: I don’t know if there is a normal practice. I’ve done interviews with a big crowd and some with just the subject. It’s unusual to have that large a number, but it’s not unprecedented in my experience. FJS: Now, Cheryl Mills, also stated that she was an attorney. I’m very concerned that when a fact witness represents a client who might be the target of an investigation, there’s a conflict of interest. Rather than letting Ms. Mills make the determination, would the FBI be willing to refer the matter of a fact witness – Ms. Mills in this case – representing the target – Secretary Clinton in this case – to the appropriate bar association for investigation? JC: That’s not a role for the FBI. We’re investigators. Even though I happen to be a lawyer, we’re not lawyers, we’re investigators. So that’s a question for the legal part of the Department of Justice. FJS: Okay, why did Ms. Mills request immunity? Was she hiding something or was she afraid that something would incriminate her that was on her laptop? JC: I don’t know. I’m sure that’s a conversation she and her lawyer had, and then her lawyer had with lawyers at the Department. I just don’t know. FJS: Well, you know there was an op-ed by Professor Johnathan Turley that appeared in the media that said there are a lot of good cases scuttled by granting immunity, and there was lots of immunity that was granted here. Doesn’t it concern you as an investigator that your chiefs in the Justice Department decided to become an immunity producing machine for many people who would have been very key witnesses? Should there have been a prosecution? JC: I don’t think of it that way. It doesn’t strike me there was a lot of immunity issued in this case. I know it’s a complicated subject but there are all different kinds of immunity. There are probably three different kinds that’s featured in this case – fairly typical in a complex, white collar case, especially as you try and work your way up towards your subject. So my overall reaction is this looks like normal investigative process to me. FJS: Well, the target was not an ordinary target. I think we all know that. And since you announced the prosecution of Secretary Clinton in July, there have been several very material issues that are troubling, and would those not require a reopening of the investigation to solve those issues? JC: I haven’t seen anything that would come near to that kind of situation. I know there are lots of questions lots of controversy but I’m very proud of the way this was done. FJS: Come on now, with all due respect, since you made this announcement there have been many more issues that came up that were not on the table prior to your announcement that the investigation against Secretary Clinton had been dropped, and I think the American public is entitled to answers on this – particularly since we have to know the extent of the classified information which ended up being in the private email server. All of us on this committee have got security clearances of some kind or another, and I’m kind of worried that if I got some classified information and went back to my office and used an unsecure server to send it to somebody who may also have had the classified information, I would be in big trouble. And I should be in big trouble if I did something like that. There seems to be different strokes for different folks on this and that’s what Americans are concerned about, particularly when we’re looking to elect someone to the highest office of the land and the leader of the free world. I don’t think your answers are satisfactory at all Mr. Comey. I do have a great deal of respect for you but I think that there’s a heavy hand coming from somewhere else and with that I yield back.
10.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released a statement regarding the latest premium increases for Healthcare.gov consumers in Wisconsin. Wisconsin’s Office of the Commissioner of Insurance recently released a review of the rate increase proposals filed by insurers for individual plans available under the Affordable Care Act, noting the state’s premiums will rise by nearly 16 percent next year. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Affordable health care is a thing of the past under Obamacare. As insurance companies continue to opt out of this disastrous policy, increasing costs are passed on to hardworking Wisconsinites who simply cannot afford the additional financial burden. It’s critical we repeal this terrible law and bring quality, affordability, and accessibility to our healthcare system.”
10.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner joined 39 Members of Congress in a letter to U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs Deputy Secretary Sloan Gibson, asking for an update on VA efforts to improve its Veterans Crisis Line and provide better service to our nation’s veterans in need. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The men and women of America’s Armed Services put their lives on the line to keep this nation free. When they come home and need support, slow response times, decreased care, and bureaucrat excuses simply don’t cut it. These American heroes give us their best; we must do the same for them.” Full transcript below: Deputy Secretary Gibson: As you know, our nation is in the midst of a veterans suicide emergency as roughly 20 veterans commit suicide every single day. Given these alarming and tragic statistics, we write to express our deep concern with recent reports of failures of the Veterans Crisis Line and to request an update on progress made by the VA to address these issues. The breakdowns of the VCL were outlined in the recent report from the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (VAOIG) which details significant problems with caller response and quality assurance of the VCL. This report found multiple inefficiencies within the VCL that led to veterans’ calls going to voicemail and being placed on hold. In addition, it identified instances where callers did not receive immediate assistance and a general lack of quality assurance. Overall the VAOIG report made seven recommendations to the VA in regards to the VCL. In addition to issues raised in the VAOIG report, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) recently conducted a review of the VCL and found that the VA is not meeting its call response time goals, and that roughly 73% of calls are answered at the VCL headquarters, while the remaining calls are sent to backup facilities. Furthermore, this study found that the VA has not established sufficient monitoring and performance indicators for calls that are sent to backup call centers. Over the past year the VA has attempted to make significant changes to the VCL to improve its service to veterans. Specifically, VA responded to the 7 recommendations of the VAOIG with specific improvements to each recommendation and a completion date for each improvement. These improvements include new employee orientation, an updated call monitoring program, and establishing a formal quality assurance process and more. Given your agency’s commitment to remedy these issues and the overwhelming public interest in holding the VA accountable to its responsibilities, we respectfully request a detailed response to the following questions by October 15, 2016. Since the VA has been pursuing reforms in this area over the past year and has identified September 30 as the latest target date for improvements to the VCL in its VAOIG response, we believe this is sufficient time for the VA to respond. 1) Has VA completed all of the improvements related to the seven VAOIG recommendations on schedule, including the improvements whose target for completion is September 30? 2) As the VAOIG report points out, the number of calls into the VCL has drastically increased in recent years. Will the changes made by the VA be sufficient to handle these calls in years to come if this trend continues? What changes will the VCL need to make in order to handle increased calls in the future? 3) VA officials have stated to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs that it is their goal to have every call to the VCL by a veteran in crisis answered promptly by an experienced responder by the end of this year. Is the VA on track to meet this goal? 4) Did the VA add any further updates of improvements to the VCL in response to the GAO report in June of this year? If so, what improvements has VA made? We know that the individuals at the VA would agree that veteran suicide is a critical issue that has become worse in recent years. With a veteran committing suicide nearly every 72 minutes and veteran suicide rates far surpassing those of civilians it is evident that the VA must do more to ensure our veterans are receiving the time critical care that they need. Veteran suicide is a complex problem that reaches beyond the VCL, but in their most critical hour, we must make sure that veterans are receiving the support they need. That is why we are seeking answers to these questions, to ensure that VA is taking the necessary strides to provide that critical support, and we look forward to your response.
10.03.2016	BROOKFIELD, WI - Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reiterated the deadline is Friday, October 14 for submitting applications for nominations to attend the United States Air Force, Military, Naval, or Merchant Marine Academies for the 2017-2018 academic year. Late or incomplete applications will not be considered. Eligible applicants are United States citizens with residency in Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District. They must be at least 17 years old but not past their 23rd birthday as of July 1, 2017, and must have reached their senior year of high school. After October 14th, candidates will be contacted by a member of the Congressman’s Academy Selection Committee to schedule an interview. The interview is an assessment of the candidate’s leadership potential, character, motivation, and interests. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I urge interested Fifth District high school students to get their academy applications in to my district office as soon as possible. Any application received after the October 14th deadline will not be considered. My Academy Selection Committee will interview eligible candidates and then make its recommendations to me. The selection process is an exciting time of year and I look forward to learning about the young, outstanding leaders from the Fifth District.” Congressman Sensenbrenner’s district office is located at 120 Bishops Way, Suite 154, Brookfield, WI 53005. Information is available by calling the office at 262-784-1111, or visiting the Congressman’s website at Sensenbrenner.house.gov.
10.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) has awarded Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner with its NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence in the 114th Congress. He received an 87 percent overall rating. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “It’s a privilege to receive the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence and my great honor to stand up for business and manufacturing, both in Wisconsin and throughout the United States. Our nation’s success and long-term health depends on the growth and prosperity of our economy. Manufacturing plays a critical role in production and the employment of millions of Americans, and I will continue to support ongoing efforts to promote and protect this vital industry.” Manufacturers present the NAM Award for Manufacturing Excellence to legislators who consistently support policies that enable manufacturers in the United States to create jobs, compete in the global economy, and improve living standards for manufacturing workers. NAM requires a Key Manufacturing Votes record of 70 percent or higher to be eligible for the award. NAM is the nation’s largest industrial trade association representing small and large manufacturers and their nearly 12 million workers.
09.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent a letter to United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy pressing her to provide answers for the Agency’s harmful E15 regulations that are putting unnecessary burdens on American fuel consumers. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Taxpayers should not be held hostage at the pump by unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats in Washington. Without evidence to justify its harmful E15 mandate, the EPA must take responsibility for the burdens it’s placing on the backs of American fuel consumers, and answer for the unnecessary harm it’s causing to hardworking citizens.” Full text provided below: Dear Administrator McCarthy: I write to you with concerns about an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) decision to allow certain configurations of fuel-dispensing blender pumps at retailer locations. A number of complications surround the introduction of fuels containing higher percentages of ethanol, or E15, as known to many Americans. Apart from the difficulties of managing ethanol-blended fuels, especially in the winter months, there are additional and more serious roadblocks for people who own older automobiles or specific types of motor vehicles. Many vehicles owned and operated in the United States, including lawn mowers, motorcycles, ATVs, and various watercraft, are not built to burn high-ethanol fuel. EPA’s E15 requirements may lead to wide-spread vehicle malfunction, caused by misfueling. Additionally, certain E15 and blender pump implementation options approved by EPA have presented serious obstacles to consumers at large, whether or not they desire to purchase E15. The EPA has tried to alleviate consumer difficulties and confusion in connection with E15 by allowing retailers to dispense different blends of gasoline at the same pump from different hoses. Blender pumps with fuel hoses dedicated to each specific blend are adequate in addressing the breadth of consumer demands, minimizing the possibility for consumer confusion, and bypassing issues that are inherent to other types of blender pumps. For these reasons, pumps with hoses dedicated to each blend of motor fuel sold are superior to single-hose pumps. However, for unknown reasons and counter to consumer concerns, EPA has sought over several years to permit retailers to dispense fuel from single-hose pumps. Problems that might have been mitigated for passenger-vehicles with larger fuel tanks are instead compounded by EPA’s attempts to permit these single-hose pumps. Further, EPA’s chosen route to permit single-hose pumps imposes an unreasonable and unnecessary burden on all consumers, regardless of their vehicle’s required fuel grade. The EPA requires that companies submit an E15 Misfueling Mitigation Plan (MMP) before various pump configurations are permitted at retail locations. Some approved MMPs result in further difficulties for consumers, rather than eliminating confusion. These configurations include a mandated minimum fuel purchase of 4 gallons to dilute any mismatched fuel that remains in the hose from a previous purchase. They also require the installation of a separate pump where fuel containing maximum 10 percent ethanol may be distributed. Blender pumps where EPA mandates a 4-gallon minimum purchase are supposed to be marked for passenger vehicle fueling only. Misuse of these pumps may be in violation of federal law. Mandating minimum purchases and dividing consumers by vehicle type or age adds regulatory burden, more room for consumer confusion, and is out of touch with the wide range of consumer needs. Consumers should not be required to purchase a minimum amount of any product, especially for something as basic as motor fuel. Consumers may be shut out from accessing this essential need for reasons as simple as only needing a certain amount of fuel or only having the financial resources to purchase an amount lower than the mandated minimum. There would be no need to dispense a minimum volume of fuel if each blend sold had a designated hose at each pump. In addition to continuing discussions on the practicalities of single-hose fuel pumps, we request a response from EPA to these questions about single-hose blender pumps as an option. Does EPA: 1) Have supporting evidence that single-hose blender pumps reduce operating costs for retailers? 2) Have evidence to suggest there is strong demand from retailers for an option to dispense multiple fuel blends from single-hose blender pumps? 3) Have evidence to suggest that retailers do not incur increased costs by being required to provide, in addition to single-hose blender pumps, at least one dedicated pump where a maximum blend of E10 is available? We appreciate your attention to these questions. Please respond by November 21, 2016. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced H.R. 6133, the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2016, which would allow the protections of the Adam Walsh Protection and Safety Act to continue saving the lives of children throughout the nation. The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act became law in 2006 and has played a vital role in the prevention of sexual exploitation of America’s children. The comprehensive, bipartisan law strengthened sex offender registry requirements and enforcement across the country, as well as extended registry requirements to Native American tribes, increased penalties for child predators, and authorized funding for various programs to strengthen our defenses against child exploitation. H.R. 6133 is critical because despite ongoing prevention efforts, the fight against child exploitation is not over. The Justice Department reports that only 17 states, three territories, and 36 Native American tribes have substantially implemented the Sex Offender Management Assistance Program and the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA). Additionally, there are also an estimated 100,000 fugitive sex offenders across the country who are unregistered or in violation of registry requirements. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Childhood sexual abuse is a serious problem facing this nation, and the devastation it causes impacts every societal group. Reauthorizing the Adam Walsh Protection and Safety Act would ensure efforts continue to prevent the ongoing sexual exploitation of our nation’s children.” Further details of the proposal include the following: • The Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2016 would reauthorize the two primary programs of the Adam Walsh Act – The Sex Offender Management Assistance Program and SORNA – for five years. o SORNA sets minimum guidelines for state sex offender registries and establishes the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website, which is a comprehensive national system for the registration and notification to the public of sex offenders. This registry currently contains information on more than 600,000 convicted sex offenders in the United States. o The Sex Offender Management Assistance Program provides funding to the states, tribes, and other jurisdictions to offset the costs of implementing and enhancing SORNA, and funding for the U.S. Marshals Service and other law enforcement agencies to assist jurisdictions in locating and apprehending sex offenders who violate registration requirements. • The Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act makes targeted changes to the SORNA requirements, including giving states more flexibility in classifying sex offenders on their registry, lowering the period that certain juveniles must register to 25 years, and limiting public access to juvenile sex offender information.
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s largest small business advocacy group, awarded Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner with its biennial Guardian of Small Business Award for his outstanding support of America’s small business owners in the 114th Congress. Founded in 1943, NFIB is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that represents the consensus views of its members in Washington and all 50 state capitals. The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award and is reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently with NFIB on key issues identified by small business owners. The NFIB tracks the votes of every Member of Congress, and only those who vote with NFIB at least 70 percent of the time are eligible for the Guardian Award. Congressman Sensenbrenner received a perfect 100 voting record during the 114th Congress. NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan praised Congressman Sensenbrenner, saying “many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them. Based on his voting record, Rep. Sensenbrenner is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington.” Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Small businesses are a big deal, and I’m proud to be their constant ally in Congress. American entrepreneurs provide more than half of all jobs in the United States, and it’s more important than ever to support them by reducing unnecessary tax burdens and regulations. I am honored to be a recipient of the ‘Guardian of Small Business’ Award and will proudly continue to fight on behalf of American small business.”
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced H.R. 6042, legislation that would stop the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from placing unnecessary and burdensome estate tax regulations on family-owned businesses. The IRS is proposing new and harmful regulations that would hurt family-owned businesses. Currently, valuation discounts exist for family business owners to make the transition from the owner to an heir after death more manageable. The IRS-proposed regulations would eliminate these valuation discounts, forcing many family-owned businesses to sell. These burdensome regulations would be particularly damaging to family-owned farms, many of which often have large assets due to land holdings, but maintain relatively modest incomes. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The IRS should not be in the business of making it difficult for family-owned businesses to keep their doors open, especially during a difficult time such as the loss of a loved one. At a time when the economic outlook is precarious and full of uncertainty, it’s critical we do everything we can to keep our nation’s small and family-owned businesses well and flourishing.” Background: • Currently, there are valuation discounts available for family business owners for purposes of estate and gift taxes, due to the lack of an identifiable market for the business. • When a family tries to pass a family-held business on to the next generation, there are valuation discounts available to protect a business’s assets from undue taxation, including: o Lack of Control Discount: Heirs often receive portions of family-held businesses that are minority ownership stakes. These minority owners do not have control over management decisions, making the minority interest less valuable to a potential buyer. o Lack of Marketability Discount: Most family-held businesses are not easily convertible to cash. This is a barrier to easy liquidation that, in the case of a family-held business, makes it less valuable to a potential buyer. • Currently, the fair market value of an interest in a family-held business is based on what a willing seller would be able to receive from a willing buyer. These discounts reflect reality by properly determining the realistic value of a family business in the open market.
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to United States Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack regarding the USDA’s ongoing role in preventing fraud and abuse in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP): Dear Mr. Secretary: Among other important programs under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) administers the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to deliver much-needed assistance to Americans at a precarious point in their lives. SNAP relies on cooperation from private retailers or grocers who accept government payments through Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) cards and distribute eligible food items to SNAP beneficiaries. In previous years, the EBT card’s function was filled by physical food stamps. Recently, a federal grand jury indicted multiple individuals in Baltimore, Maryland in connection with a practice known as “food stamp trafficking,” through which FNS-approved retailers and grocers exchange EBT funds for cash without delivering food to hungry Americans, or after greatly inflating food costs. Some reports indicate that SNAP was defrauded to the tune of $16 million in taxpayer funds in connection with these Maryland fraudsters. According to a 2012 press release, USDA has actively and successfully combated food stamp trafficking. The possibility for fraud exists when government distributes money, and it is always incumbent on government to safeguard the public’s trust by good administration. I commend USDA for the work it has already done to increase efficiency and reduce fraud in SNAP, and I am interested in seeing USDA reach greater successes in combating fraud. I understand the importance of SNAP benefits for Americans. SNAP funds are dedicated to ensuring we stamp out hunger, and we must take strong action to keep the system clear of criminal activity. In the interest of guaranteeing SNAP funds go to feeding hungry people, I am asking about USDA’s activities to keep known fraudsters from repeatedly committing the same offenses. Does USDA: 1. maintain a comprehensive list of locations or addresses at which fraudulent activities have occurred? 2. maintain a comprehensive list of retail store owners and operators who have committed fraudulent activities? 3. cross-reference applications to become FNS-approved retailers with any existing list of retailers who may have committed SNAP fraud, or with any existing list of locations at which systematic fraud has occurred? 4. have processes and procedures in place to suspend or scrutinize retailers who may be discovered to have connections with previous cases of fraud? I am pleased to see USDA taking action to shore up the public’s trust in its administration of taxpayer funds. I look forward to reviewing your response to these questions, and expect to receive your response by October 29, 2016. It is my hope that our cooperation results in a reduced burden for the American taxpayer. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the Increase Dependent Care Assistance Program (DCAP) Ceiling Act, legislation that would amend the Internal Revenue (IRS) Code of 1986 in order to help make the cost of childcare more affordable for families and businesses. Each year, up to $5,000 in funding is available for childcare services to employees with children 13 years and younger who are unable to care for themselves. Currently, if an individual does not use the full allotment within a year, the funds cannot be rolled-over for later use. Congressman Sensenbrenner’s legislation not only increases the amount available from $5,000 to $7,500, but also allows participants in the program to roll-over unused funds. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The cost of reliable, quality childcare has risen dramatically over the years. Changes to the Dependent Care Assistance Program are necessary to give our hardworking families a hand up and ensure our businesses have a focused, productive workforce.” Background: • The Dependent Care Assistance Program (DCAP) is a flexible spending account which can be used to pay for eligible dependent care expenses, such as childcare. • Expenses must be incurred from the care of dependents under the age of 13, or older dependents incapable of caring for themselves, and must be needed to allow employees to work. • The money set aside is pretax, which has the effect of lowering an individual’s taxable income. Under current law, each household may set aside up to $5,000 annually. This limit has been in effect since 1986, despite the fact that the cost of care has significantly increased.
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent a letter to United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy asking her why the Agency has failed to produce reports on the environmental impacts of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The EPA has a statutory requirement to produce these reports. It is vital that Members of Congress have access to the Agency’s findings while evaluating the strengths and weaknesses of our national biofuels mandate in order to take sound actions on behalf of the American consumer.” Full text provided below: Dear Administrator McCarthy: In November 2013, the House Science Committee held a hearing entitled Strengthening Transparency and Accountability within the Environmental Protection Agency, at which you testified. During the hearing, you and I discussed the merits of gasoline containing 15 percent ethanol (E15), and its effects on engines. During this colloquy on E15 fuel – which traces its roots back to the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) – you stated that “additional research that’s done credibly and transparent is always welcome.” I appreciate those comments, as I too believe there is value in further research into a host of areas under the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) jurisdiction, including the RFS. Your desire for additional research apparently is not shared by everyone at EPA, however. According to statute, your agency is required every three years to update Congress on the environmental and conservation impacts of the RFS. As noted by the Office of Inspector General (OIG), EPA hasn’t completed a triannual congressional impact report since 2011 and never issued a backsliding study to determine if the RFS and our national biofuels mandate adversely affects air quality. Although EPA says some of the required reports were not produced due to scare resources and other priorities, the Office of Air and Radiation (OAR) stated that in regards to lifecycle greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the state of the science (since 2010) has not changed enough to necessitate an updated study on the impacts of the renewable fuels program. Additional and updated research and analysis allows lawmakers to better gauge the strengths and weaknesses of policy we enact, and science-based decision making is vital when evaluating our biofuel mandate. With this in mind, please answer the following questions by October 8, 2016: • Considering missed deadlines in the past, how confident is the agency that it can produce a triennial report on biofuels to Congress during the first quarter of 2018? o What specifically is EPA doing to ensure this deadline is met? • Would it be beneficial for EPA to complete an anti-backsliding air study on the RFS before proposing new biofuel volume requirements in the future? o If yes, why? o If no, why not? • Does your statement: “additional research that’s done credibly and transparent is always welcome” only apply to E15? Does this statement also apply to the RFS? o If the statement does apply to the RFS, do you support OAR’s decision to forego an additional report on the lifecycle GHG emissions associated with the RFS? ? Why or why not? o If the statement doesn’t apply to the RFS, why doesn’t it? Thank you for your attention to these questions. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Chairman Emeritus House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
09.06.2016	Brookfield, WI – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner is accepting applications for a nomination to the United States Air Force, Military, Naval, or Merchant Marine Academy for the 2017-2018 academic year. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “It is my distinct honor and privilege to nominate young men and women from the Fifth Congressional District for appointment to our nation’s United States Service Academies. Applicants who receive a nomination and appointment will receive a world-class education from any one of the academies, and will graduate as a commissioned officer in our Armed Forces. I encourage the best and brightest students in my district to apply for a nomination.” Applications will be accepted from those who are US citizens living in Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District, and are at least 17 years old, but not past their 23rd birthday on July 1, 2017, and must have reached their senior year of high school. The application form and instructions are located on Congressman Sensenbrenner’s website at www.sensenbrenner.house.gov, or call his Brookfield office to request this information at (262) 784-1111. Be advised that completed applications are due in Congressman Sensenbrenner’s district office by close of business on Friday, October 14, 2016. Late or incomplete applications will not be considered.
09.01.2016	Brookfield, WI – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the 2016 results of his annual district survey, which are based on 3714 respondents throughout the Fifth Congressional District. Each year, Congressman Sensenbrenner hosts more than 100 town hall meetings and office hours in communities across the district, as well as responds to thousands of constituent letters on various legislative issues. The annual district survey is another tool Congressman Sensenbrenner uses to ensure he is best serving those he represents. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “My legislative priorities are determined by the needs of those I represent, and the annual survey is just one of the ways I’m able to learn their thoughts and concerns about the direction of our communities and our nation. It’s a great honor to serve my constituents in Congress, and I appreciate the time and effort each respondent took to participate in this year’s survey.” Key Findings: • 72% believe the country is headed in the wrong direction • Only 17% rate the economy as “good,” while 80% rate it fair or poor • 67% believe the Obama administration has violated the balance of powers The questions, answer options, and results in full are below: 1) Do you believe the country is headed in the right direction? A. Yes- 16% B. No- 72% C. Other- 11% 2) Rate the condition of the economy. A. Excellent- 1% B. Good- 17% C. Fair- 49% D. Poor- 31% E. Other- 2% 3) What is the greatest economic challenge facing your family? (Choose one) A. Stagnant wages- 21% B. Rising price of consumer goods- 45% C. Debt- 6% D. Lack of employment or underemployment- 9% E. Other- 20% 4) What is your biggest concern/ complaint with the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare? A. Its effect on small business- 16% B. Cost/ Rising premiums- 45% C. Losing your health coverage- 8% D. Losing your doctor- 5% E. I have no concerns or complaints- 26% 5) Do you believe that law enforcement agencies should be allowed access to encrypted information in certain circumstances in order to prevent and/or stop terrorism, and to solve cases of terrorism against the United States? A. Yes- 69% B. No 15% C. Undecided- 16% 6) Drug overdoses are the leading cause of injury-related deaths in the U.S., eclipsing deaths from motor vehicle crashes or firearms. There were over 47,000 overdose deaths in 2014; 61% of which involved either a prescription opioid or heroin. Do you believe the government must take steps to fight heroin and opioid addiction in America? A. Yes- 74% B. No- 14% C. Undecided- 12% 7) Do you believe the Obama administration has violated the balance of powers and abused the use of executive orders? A. Yes- 67% B. No- 28% C. Undecided- 5% 8) Do you believe there must be increased transparency from our federal government? A. Yes- 83% B. No- 7% C. Undecided- 11% 9) From 1980 to 2008, the number of people incarcerated in America quadrupled from roughly 500,000 to 2.3 million people. About $70 billion is spent on corrections annually. Do you believe reforms are needed to curtail the high rates and costs of incarceration? A. Yes- 73% B. No- 15% C. Undecided- 12% 10) What do you believe is the best method for prisoner rehabilitation? A. Education and workforce opportunities within prison- 21% B. Personalized sentencing over mandatory minimums- 7% C. Longer prison sentences- 9% D. Both A and B- 53% E. Other- 10% 11) Do you believe the United States should allow more Syrian refugees to settle here? A. Yes- 13% B. Yes, but only after heavy screening- 36% C. No- 43% D. Undecided- 8% 12) Do you support building a wall on our southern border to prohibit illegal immigrants from coming into the country illegally? A. Yes- 51% B. No- 38% C. Undecided- 12% 13) The 2015 Social Security Trustees Report indicated that in the year 2035, the trust fund will be unable to pay the full cost of benefits for retirees. How should Congress reform the Social Security system to ensure the trust fund remains viable for future generations? A. Raise taxes on Social Security benefits and on payroll taxes- 21% B. Decrease the amount beneficiaries receive- 7% C. Privatize the Social Security System- 26% D. No changes- 9% E. Other- 14) What do you think is the biggest threat to our national security? A. ISIS and other terrorist organizations- 34% B. Cyber warfare- 22% C. North Korea’s nuclear ambitions- 7% D. The national debt- 28% E. Other- 8%
08.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to the recent outbreak of violence and the weakening relationship between police and impacted communities, Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) is advocating for increased cooperation on Congressional criminal justice reform efforts. For the last 3 years, Rep. Sensenbrenner has led bipartisan efforts in Congress for broad-based reforms to improve the federal sentencing and corrections system, from front-end sentencing reform to back-end release policies. The Judiciary Committee’s bill addresses the federal supervision system – recognizing that probation often does a better job stopping the revolving door at federal prisons. The legislation, which is inspired by the successes of states across the country, will reduce recidivism, concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals, increase the use of evidence-based alternatives to incarceration, curtail over-criminalization, reduce crime, and save taxpayer dollars. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “For too long, our communities have been devastated by heightened criminal activity, rampant recidivism, and a fractured criminal justice system. Over the past three years, Congress has worked on a bipartisan basis to create real change by proposing evidence-based solutions, which have been proven effective in the states. Additions to our police force, as well as sentencing reforms and rehabilitation programs for incarcerated individuals are the first steps toward rebuilding our broken neighborhoods, but the problems we face today in our criminal justice system will not be solved unless Congress can work cohesively with the next Administration.”
08.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, along with Representatives Mark Pocan, Reid Ribble, Gwen Moore, Ron Kind, Sean Duffy, and Glenn Grothman, sent a letter to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Serves Acting Administrator Andrew Slavitt requesting increased patient access to oropharyngeal strengthening therapy. This type of therapy would benefit individuals with various conditions and diseases, improving quality of life, providing efficient patient care, and offering cost savings to the American healthcare system. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “When gaps in care or methods of increasing quality care are discovered, it’s our responsibility to pursue efficient and cost effective solutions that will benefit individuals and improve our overall healthcare system. Patient access to oropharyngeal strengthening therapy is one such solution, and I look forward to hearing from Administrator Slavitt on how to move forward.” Full text provided below: Dear Administrator Slavitt: We are writing to urge the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to ensure access to oropharyngeal strengthening therapy for individuals with Parkinson’s disease, head and neck cancers, those who have suffered a stroke, and others who have swallowing disorders. The act of swallowing is complex. Approximately 40 oral and pharyngeal (mouth and throat) muscles and multiple cranial nerves work together to accomplish two critical, life sustaining actions: breathing and swallowing. Weak oropharyngeal muscles can prevent effective and efficient transport of food, liquids and medication causing them to flow into an unprotected airway, also known as aspiration. Swallowing disorders, also known as dysphagia, are highly prevalent in stroke patients and are associated with increased mortality and morbidity, dehydration, pulmonary complications, and reduced rehabilitation potential. Therefore, it is critical to ensure Medicare patients have access to safe, effective therapies to improve their swallowing function, prevent further complications and continue to advance their rehabilitation. Several peer-reviewed clinical studies report that systematic strengthening of oropharyngeal muscles is an effective and well-accepted therapy for treating dysphagia. Outcomes from these studies included reduced aspiration, progression to a regular diet, ending use of a feeding tubes, and cost savings to the healthcare system. It has been brought to our attention that there is a pending application for separate, unique Healthcare Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) codes for swallow rehabilitation systems and their accessories. We understand that without these distinct HCPCS codes, patients cannot be assured access to the medical devices that provide this rehabilitation therapy in their homes. Therefore, we ask that CMS continue to work with all stakeholders to address this national healthcare policy imperative and give full and fair consideration of the swallowing rehabilitation therapies’ applications for new HCPCS codes. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
08.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Jim Sensenbrenner (R- Wis.), along with Representatives Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Gene Green (D-TX), Dave Trott (R-MI), and Jared Polis (D-CO) sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch regarding the Department of Justice’s efforts to enforce antitrust laws, including a multi-year review of the ASCAP and BMI antitrust consent decrees, which allow for a competitive and successful music market. The letter, which comes after a recent announcement upholding the aforementioned decrees, commends Attorney General Lynch and the Justice Department’s work on guaranteeing fair and efficient music licensing. Full text provided below: Dear Attorney General Lynch: We write regarding the Department of Justice’s thorough multi-year review of the ASCAP and BMI antitrust consent decrees. Assessing potential harm to competition arising from coordinated behavior of competitors – as would most certainly arise were the decrees modified to permit fractional licensing – is the responsibility of the Antitrust Division and we commend you for your diligence in this thorough review. Last week’s announcement upholding the decrees with no modification is appropriate at this time. Further, we support the Department’s clarification that under the decrees, ASCAP and BMI must use “100% licensing,” and that this obligation has always been inherent in the consent decrees. We commend the Department’s efforts to guarantee the fair and efficient licensing of public performance rights for musical works. Preserving the decrees as currently written will protect licensees acting in good faith, ensure that music is performed legally, and see that creators are compensated for their work. Moreover, we commend your staff for reaffirming that the consent decrees require ASCAP and BMI to license all of the works in their repertory. So-called “fractional licensing” would hamstring the music marketplace. It is our understanding that the current blanket licenses allow for the “100% licensing” of a work by any one partial owner of the work. Were the Department to propose modifying the consent decrees to allow fractional licensing, it would paralyze the market for licensed music. We thank you for your efforts to enforce our antitrust laws, which will make way for a competitive and successful music market. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
07.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2016 in the House of Representatives. In their never ending quest for new revenues, states are increasingly looking for ways to shift tax and regulatory burdens to people from other states—to whom elected officials are unaccountable. The No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2016 prohibits states from regulating beyond their borders by imposing sales tax collection requirements on individuals with no physical presence in the taxing state and no vote in the representation that would implement the tax. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “States should not have the ability to tax non-citizens, plain and simple. This legislation would help reduce burdensome overregulation, keep government overreaches in check, and ensure that only residents of a state are subjected to tax obligations.” The No Regulation Without Representation Act of 2016 section by section is available here.
07.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Speaker Paul D. Ryan signed S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act at a bipartisan, bicameral ceremony. This comes after the recent approval of a conference committee report, which passed the House of Representatives last week. This legislation now heads to President Obama to be signed into law. The final legislative package signed today is a comprehensive response to the opioid epidemic that is devastating millions of American lives. It includes provisions from eighteen bills passed by the House of Representatives in May, and addresses all facets of the epidemic. It permits the government to make grants for purposes of prevention, treatment, recovery, and overdose reversal through the use of FDA-approved and appropriately labeled drugs and devices, and law enforcement and investigative purposes. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) has been a vocal leader throughout this process, and authored the flagship bill, H.R. 5046, which passed the House in May by a resounding 413-5 vote. H.R. 5046 creates a comprehensive Justice Department grant program to help states fight opioid addiction and authorizes $103 million annually over five years for the grant program. It directs taxpayer dollars responsibly by leveraging and streamlining existing programs and fully offsetting the legislation in compliance with the House’s cut-go protocol. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I’m extremely proud to have been part of this bipartisan, bicameral legislation that will help millions of Americans overcome their struggles with addiction. The work accomplished here proves that compromise is possible and that Congress can come together to provide solutions to America’s most urgent problems. It’s my hope that the initiatives outlined in this bill will give addicted individuals the support they need to change their lives and once again become healthy, happy, and successful members of their families and communities.”
07.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the conference report for a comprehensive legislative package to combat the national opioid epidemic, which is ravaging individuals, families, and communities throughout the country. Among the eighteen bills passed and considered in the conference committee on the opioid epidemic prior to today’s approval was H.R. 5046, the flagship legislation considered on this issue, which was sponsored by Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.). H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act (COARA), creates a comprehensive opioid abuse reduction program at the Department of Justice, which would, among other things, provide vital training and resources for first responders and law enforcement, aid in criminal investigations for the unlawful distribution of opioids, expand drug courts, and promote residential substance abuse. Additionally, the comprehensive grant program created by H.R. 5046 is fully offset, meaning it successfully directs funds to address the opioid epidemic by taking advantage of existing funding. The result is no net increase in spending authorizations and no additional burden on the American taxpayer, which is a responsible, good-government approach to the epidemic. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Opioid and heroin abuse is an issue that doesn’t discriminate – it hurts individuals, families, and communities in every corner of this country. Today’s House approval of the conference report is a testimony to the seriousness of legislators to work together, compromise, and find real solutions. It is an important landmark that offers renewed hope for everyone impacted by this devastating epidemic.” Addiction to opioids such as heroin, morphine, and other prescription pain medicines, has a devastating hold on this country. Between 435,000 and 1.5 million people in the United States currently use heroin, and an alarming number of them are younger than 25 years old. Deaths from prescription opioids and heroin set a record in 2014, climbing to 28,647. Beyond health care costs, other significant economic burdens are associated with opioid abuse, such as costs related to criminal justice and lost workplace productivity. In total, opioid abuse imposes an estimated $55 billion in societal costs annually.
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Rapid DNA Act, introduced by Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) passed out of the House Judiciary Committee and is on its way to a full vote on the House floor. The Rapid DNA Act would establish a system for the integration of Rapid DNA instruments for use by law enforcement to help reduce DNA backlog. Unlike traditional DNA analysis, which can take weeks, Rapid DNA analysis permits processing of DNA samples in approximately 90 minutes or less. This technology has the potential to revolutionize the way in which arrested individuals are enrolled in the criminal justice system, shorten the time required for their DNA to be linked to unsolved crimes, and expedite the exoneration of innocent suspects by giving law enforcement officials a new system that meets FBI quality assurance standards to compare DNA samples collected at the time of an arrest to profiles in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS.) Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today’s passage of the Rapid DNA Act out of the House Judiciary Committee is a promising development that brings us one step closer to safer communities throughout the nation. Rapid DNA technology is an effective tool for law enforcement that will help quickly identify arrestees and offenders and reduce the overwhelming backlog in forensic DNA analysis. It will also make crime fighting efforts more efficient and help prevent future crimes from occurring, which saves time and taxpayer dollars. I look forward to this smart legislation moving forward to a vote on the House floor soon.”
07.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the dubious meeting between Attorney General Loretta Lynch and former President Bill Clinton: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Lynch described her highly unorthodox meeting with Bill Clinton as ‘primarily social.’ As someone with a long history investigating Bill Clinton, I know that almost everything he does is “primarily social,” but with Clinton, you always have to wonder, ‘what were his ulterior motives?’ “Bill Clinton should not be soliciting a conversation with the Attorney General while her Department is investigating his wife. And the Attorney General should not be engaging him in conversation. What did they talk about? We’ll likely never know for sure, but this is precisely why prosecutors must avoid even an appearance of impropriety. This is a case of, at best, extremely poor judgment and it absolutely taints the Department’s investigation of Hillary Clinton.”
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) becoming law: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The signing of PROMESA into law is the first step on the path toward fiscal solvency and a brighter future for Puerto Rico and its citizens. It is a common sense solution that will protect taxpayers and be the vehicle for real, substantive change in the lives of millions of Americans.”
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the 2016 OASDI Trustees Report, officially named the Annual Report of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and Federal Disability Insurance Trust Funds, was released, revealing the precarious future of America’s Social Security program. According to the report, Social Security’s combined trust fund asset reserves will become depleted by the year 2034 and the Medicare Hospital Insurance trust fund will be depleted by the year 2028. In an effort to curtail these devastating findings, the Trustees recommend a 21 percent increase in payroll taxes or a 16 percent cut in benefits for all current and future beneficiaries. Either option would significantly hurt hard working American citizens. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The facts revealed in the annual OASDI Trustees Report are troubling, but certainly not surprising, and they show that we cannot kick the can down the road any longer. Every day that goes by, the situation grows worse and will require more drastic changes to the Social Security and Medicare programs. The time to act is now. The health and security of all Americans depend on it.”
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding the Great Lakes governors’ unanimous approval of the Lake Michigan water diversion to Waukesha: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “For more than a decade, Waukesha officials and dedicated members of the Wisconsin DNR have conducted studies, evaluated alternative water supply options, and presented their findings to various environmental authorities, both in the state and throughout the Great Lakes region. The city met every environmental requirement, resulting in today’s unanimous approval granting Waukesha access to Lake Michigan water. It is a great victory for Waukesha and its citizens, and will prove to have a net positive effect for the community and the environment.”
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding the adoption of House Concurrent Resolution 89, which expressed that a proposed carbon tax would increase costs for middle class families, contribute to job losses, and put further strain on the United States economy: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Under President Obama, the American economic outlook is precarious at best. Rather than find solutions to the real problems citizens face each day, the President and his EPA want to create a carbon tax that would increase energy prices, force hardworking families to pay more for necessities, such as food, gasoline, and electricity, and lead to additional job losses. Today, the House of Representatives made the right decision to put American families first and consider the best interests of the country over those of the President’s legacy.”
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) introduced the Deterring Undue Enforcement by Protecting Rights of Citizens from Excessive Searches and Seizures (DUE PROCESS) Act – the companion bill to Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner’s legislation, which was passed in the House of Representatives last month. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Civil asset forfeiture is a critical component of the overall effort to fix our broken criminal justice system, and the DUE PROCESS Act makes common sense changes to federal forfeiture laws that help innocent Americans. Its introduction today in the U.S. Senate brings us one step closer toward meaningful reform that will tamper abuse and protect citizens’ Constitutional rights.” The DUE PROCESS Act builds upon changes made in the 2000 Civil Action Forfeiture Reform Act by increasing transparency in the civil asset forfeiture process, adding protections for innocent property owners, and implementing additional protections to ensure property owners have the opportunity to contest seizures. The legislation also improves the notice that the government must give property owners and makes it easier for them to be heard by a judge. Additionally, the DUE PROCESS Act entitles property owners to an initial hearing, where they can retrieve confiscated property immediately if it was not seized according to the law. It increases the availability of attorney fees for innocent owners, and places a higher burden of proof on the government.
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Deterring Undue Enforcement by Protecting Rights of Citizens from Excessive Searches and Seizures (DUE PROCESS) Act, sponsored by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), passed the House Judiciary Committee and now moves forward to a full House vote. The DUE PROCESS Act builds upon changes made in the 2000 Civil Action Forfeiture Reform Act by increasing transparency in the civil asset forfeiture process, adding protections for innocent property owners, and implementing additional protections to ensure property owners have the opportunity to contest seizures. The legislation also improves the notice that the government must give property owners and makes it easier for them to be heard by a judge. Additionally, the DUE PROCESS Act entitles property owners to an initial hearing, where they can retrieve confiscated property immediately if it was not seized according to the law. It increases the availability of attorney fees for innocent owners, and places a higher burden of proof on the government. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Civil asset forfeiture is an important piece of the overall effort to reform our criminal justice system, and the DUE PROCESS Act makes common sense changes to federal forfeiture laws that help innocent Americans. Its passage out of the House Judiciary Committee is a significant step forward in the process, and I’m confident that it will soon be passed in a full House vote.”
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) renewable fuel standard proposal to increase ethanol volume obligations to nearly 19 billion gallons in 2017: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Proposing that nearly 19 billion gallons of ethanol be incorporated into the fuel supply is another example of excessive EPA bureaucratic over-reach – a mandate that is harmful to American consumers and robs them of their freedom to choose. Environmentally, it probably does more harm than good, and it will lead to misfueling, damaged engines, voided warranties, and increased emissions. The EPA should not be in the business of limiting choices or picking winners and losers when it comes to ethanol.”
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the Deterring Undue Enforcement by Protecting Rights of Citizens from Excessive Searches and Seizures (DUE PROCESS) Act, which would enact meaningful reforms to the federal civil asset forfeiture process. The DUE PROCESS Act builds upon changes made in the 2000 Civil Action Forfeiture Reform Act by increasing transparency in the civil asset forfeiture process, adding protections for innocent property owners, and implementing additional protections to ensure property owners have the opportunity to contest seizures. The legislation also improves the notice that the government must give property owners and makes it easier for them to be heard by a judge. Additionally, the DUE PROCESS Act entitles property owners to an initial hearing, where they can retrieve confiscated property immediately if it was not seized according to the law. It increases the availability of attorney fees for innocent owners, and places a higher burden of proof on the government. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Forfeiture is a critical tool in the fight against crime, but it is also vulnerable to abuse. The DUE PROCESS Act, among other things, will increase transparency and add protections for innocent property owners, including the opportunity to contest seizures and regain illegally seized property immediately. Reform to the current federal forfeiture laws is necessary to curb abuse, restore confidence in law enforcement, and help citizens protect their property rights.”
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016 (COARA), legislation introduced by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.). The bill creates a comprehensive opioid abuse reduction program at the Department of Justice, which would, among other things, provide vital training and resources for first responders and law enforcement, aid in criminal investigations for the unlawful distribution of opioids, and expand drug courts. Additionally, the comprehensive grant program created by H.R. 5046 is fully offset, meaning it successfully directs funds to address the opioid epidemic by taking advantage of existing funding. The result is no net increase in spending authorizations and no additional burden on the American taxpayer, which is a responsible, good-government approach to the epidemic. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today’s passage of the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act is another important step forward in our fight against heroin and opioid addiction. It signals the seriousness of our national struggle with addiction, the need for immediate action, and the commitment of lawmakers to pass meaningful, bipartisan legislation. I’m optimistic about the future of this bill and the great good it will affect throughout the country.” Background: Addiction to opioids such as heroin, morphine, and other prescription pain medicines, has a devastating hold on this country. Between 435,000 and 1.5 million people in the United States currently use heroin, and an alarming number of them are younger than 25 years old. Between 2002 and 2013, national heroin deaths nearly quadrupled, reaching more than 8,000 annually by 2013. Beyond health care costs, other significant economic burdens are associated with opioid abuse, such as costs related to criminal justice and lost workplace productivity. In total, opioid abuse imposes an estimated $55 billion in societal costs annually. In Wisconsin, more than 800 overdose deaths occurred in 2015 – double the number of deaths from overdose in 2004. Between 2006 and 2011, the state experienced a 350 percent increase in heroin samples submitted to the Wisconsin State Crime Laboratory by law enforcement. In 2012, the number of heroin-related deaths jumped by nearly 50 percent and statewide data shows one quarter of Wisconsinites who abuse the drug began using when they were younger than 25 years old. Drug overdose deaths have increased 137 percent from 2010, with opioid related deaths increasing by 200 percent.
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House Judiciary Committee unanimously passed H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016 (COARA), legislation introduced by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.). Addiction to opioids such as heroin, morphine, and other prescription pain medicines, has a devastating hold on this country. Between 435,000 and 1.5 million people in the United States currently use heroin, and an alarming number of them are younger than 25 years old. Between 2002 and 2013, national heroin deaths nearly quadrupled, reaching more than 8,000 annually by 2013. Beyond health care costs, other significant economic burdens are associated with opioid abuse, such as costs related to criminal justice and lost workplace productivity. In total, opioid abuse imposes an estimated $55 billion in societal costs annually. The Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016 creates a comprehensive opioid abuse reduction program at the Department of Justice, which will direct federal resources for drug abuse programs directly at the opioid problem. This bill will give states and localities flexibility to attack opioid abuse issues unique to their communities. The comprehensive grant program created by H.R. 5046 is fully offset, meaning it successfully directs funds to address the opioid epidemic by taking advantage of existing funding. The result is no net increase in spending authorizations and no additional burden on the American taxpayer, which is a responsible, good-government approach to this epidemic. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today’s unanimous passage of the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act signals the seriousness of heroin and opioid addiction in America and the immediate need for action. It also demonstrates the commitment from lawmakers to address this issue and pass meaningful, bipartisan legislation that will extend a helping hand to the individuals, families, and communities that desperately need it. I’m optimistic about the future of this legislation and the positive impact it will have throughout this nation.”
04.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the American Conservative Union Foundation (ACU) released its annual ratings of the United States Congress based on individual Members’ votes on key legislation important to conservatives. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner received an impressive 2015 score of 96 out of 100, and earned a significant lifetime rating of 90.19. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I’m extremely proud of my legislative voting record. It reflects my firm commitment to common sense, conservative values and highlights the importance I’ve continually placed upon the principles the people of Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District have elected me to uphold.” Congressman Sensenbrenner’s record of conservative achievement stands above both the Combined House average of 45% and the House Republican average of 77%. He also rates most conservative among the Wisconsin delegation.
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner will receive the prestigious Justice Award from the American Bar Association (ABA) for his efforts and long standing record of achievement in the areas of criminal justice reform and voting rights. Specifically, the ABA will recognize Congressman Sensenbrenner for his leadership on the introduction of the Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2015 and the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “My legislative priorities in Congress have always been guided by my desire to serve the people of this nation while respecting and upholding the rule of law. While I’ve never sought recognition for my efforts, it is truly an honor to receive this distinguished award from the American Bar Association and I look forward to continuing my work on behalf of Wisconsin and the American people.” The American Bar Association’s “Day in Washington” formalized the tradition of honoring selected Members of Congress on a bipartisan basis for significant efforts in support of ABA legislative priorities and on a variety of issues of importance to the legal profession and the administration of justice in 1999.
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy regarding the Agency’s proposed rule on Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Fuel Efficiency Standards and the negative impact it would have on the motorsport industry: Dear Administrator McCarthy: I am writing in regards to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) July 13, 2015, proposed rule titled Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and Fuel Efficiency Standards for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Engines and Vehicles—Phase 2. Included is a provision regarding the regulation of competition-only motor vehicles previously covered by a certificate of conformity. My concerns are both with the EPA’s process and the negative impact such an expansive change would have on motorsports enthusiasts and the industry. The specialty automotive industry is a significant part of our economy that generates $36 billion a year according to the Specialty Equipment Market Association (SEMA). This industry provides employment for more than one million Americans and enjoyment to millions more. The EPA’s action would wrongly and unfairly put an important industry and cherished American recreational activity under new and unnecessary regulation. The EPA neglected its responsibility to alert the industry, its enthusiasts, and other stakeholders regarding this policy change. The public and industry were unaware of the language that was buried deep in a 629-page proposal on an unrelated topic – light-duty vehicles. Its inclusion only came to light months after the public comment period was closed and has caused significant confusion. Most importantly, through statute and legislative history Congress has made clear that the Clean Air Act was not intended to regulate competition-only vehicles; even those modified from emissions compliant on-road motor vehicles. To be clear, I do not condone the illegal modification of emissions-systems of vehicles that will be driven on public roads. But the EPA’s action goes well beyond addressing non-compliance for on-road vehicles, which are already regulated. To prevent modification of any vehicle that was originally intended as emissions compliant – even if it is only paraded at car shows or driven at track events on a closed circuit – will put not only the performance aftermarket industry at risk, but put an end to most forms of amateur racing and car shows. In subsequent statements, the EPA has implied that it would selectively enforce the proposed regulation. That is not an acceptable outcome for motorsports enthusiasts or businesses that should not be expected to operate in an uncertain regulatory environment that could subject them to fines or other legal action. The EPA should work with industry and other stakeholders to quickly provide clarity in a manner consistent with Congress’s clear intent to exempt competition-only vehicles including those originally certified for road use. I look forward to learning more about how you plan to address this matter in a manner consistent with Congress’s intent. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Member of Congress
04.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Administrator Charles F. Bolden regarding the lack of response to a previous letter, calling into question the Agency’s contracting practices: Dear Administrator Bolden: I understand that you are in receipt of my letter dated February 24, 2016, regarding my continued concern about NASA’s Integrated Communications Service contract. It is my hope that your agency is working expeditiously to answer the questions I raised in that letter, as I requested a written response by March 9, 2016. It has taken nearly a month and a half for your agency to answer questions that basic accounting, a quick e-mail search, and general knowledge of your own agency’s policy directives and actions should have answered very quickly. As I said in my previous letter, the issues I raise are very serious in nature and should not be dismissed. I respectfully request again that you address the following questions and document requests: • Did NASA’s CSO Deputy Director direct project manager to single source a product called CISCO Identify Service Engine (CISCO ISE)? o If yes, why? o Did SAIC recommend and/or encourage the CSO in anyway regarding CISCO ISE? • Does NASA Policy Directive 7120.99 require NASA, or its contractors, to evaluate all market options, fully and fairly, for its procurements? o Are there waivers for Directive 7120.99? o Was there a waiver provided relative to the procurement of CISCO ISE? o If yes, why? o Please provide me with a copy of any document or waiver that would authorize SAIC to disregard standard project management processes and procurement policies. • Are you aware of a $600,000 fee, or any fee, being paid to CISCO? o If yes, why was this fee paid? o If yes, who paid the fee? o Was it paid from the EIB-NAC budget? • Please provide me with a copy of the EIB-NAC formulation authorization document. • Is SAIC manager aware of a $600,000 fee paid to CISCO? o Has he sent or received e-mails referencing $600,000? o If he corresponded via e-mail with a government official about this fee, please provide the relevant e-mails to me. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter, and I look forward to a reply very soon. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding President Obama’s nomination of Merrick Garland to the United States Supreme Court: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The next Supreme Court justice could dramatically change the direction of the Court for generations to come, and the American people deserve to have a say. This process has always been about principle, and the Senate is within its Constitutional rights to defer confirmation until Americans have the opportunity to voice their opinions.”
03.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the Senate passage of the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA): Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I introduced the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act in the House because the devastation caused by the dramatic rise in heroin and opioid addiction is ruining thousands of lives and destroying entire communities. The passage of its bipartisan companion bill by the full Senate delivers renewed hope to everyone affected by addiction and offers life-changing solutions as part of our ongoing efforts to reform America’s broken criminal justice system.”
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent a letter to Secretary of the United States Navy Raymond Mabus, asking for his support in the naming of an SSN-774 Virginia-class attack submarine in honor of the State of Wisconsin: Dear Mr. Secretary: I write to seek your support for naming a SSN-774 Virginia-class attack submarine in honor of the State of Wisconsin. As you know, Virginia-class submarines are generally named after U.S. states. So far, only two United States Navy ships have been named in honor of Wisconsin, most recently an Iowa-class battleship, the USS Wisconsin (BB-64) last served in the Gulf War. After it’s decommissioning in September 1991, Wisconsin is no longer represented in the U.S. Navy fleet. The State of Wisconsin deserves a place in the fleet. Wisconsin has a long and storied history in building and supplying U.S. Navy ships. In fact, one of the country’s largest shipbuilders, Marinette Marine Corporation, was founded in Wisconsin in 1942 to help aid the allied war effort. Having started small, it has now built hundreds of vessels for service in the U.S. Navy. Many other Wisconsin companies are also involved in the production of U.S. Navy vessels; there is not a single congressional district in Wisconsin not involved in the shipbuilding industry. Predictably, many of the parts and technology in the Virginia-class are manufactured in Wisconsin, including bearings, composites, computer products, valves, and generators. Wisconsin’s own submarine also serves as a tribute to all current and former Wisconsin sailors, many of whom have received some of the highest honors bestowed on sailors. Because of the Virginia-class’s close combat and littoral capabilities, one veteran of particular note is Delafield’s Commander William Barker Cushing. Commander Cushing gained notoriety for a nighttime raid in the littorals of the Roanoke River in October 1864 when he sunk the CSS Albemarle with a close-range torpedoing, helping turn control of the harbor back to Union and stopping the threat to the blockade. He received a Thanks of Congress for his actions, and has had five ships named in his honor, including the first torpedo boat ever launched for the Navy. But Cdr. Cushing is just one of the many men and women from Wisconsin who have served admirably in the U.S. Navy, and all would be honored to have a ship bear the name of their home state. As the Secretary of the Navy, I understand that your office receives hundreds of letters and suggestions each year from citizens, military retirees, and members of Congress. I thank you for your time and consideration of this request, and I look forward to your favorable reply. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding Obamacare’s special enrollment periods: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “From the conception of the Affordable Care Act, I – along with my fellow Republican lawmakers – warned that it presented individuals ample opportunity to avoid paying for health insurance until they became ill. We’re now seeing evidence that through special enrollment periods, this is happening at great expense to the taxpayers. Obamacare has been a disaster from the start, and Congress needs to repeal and replace this irresponsible and fundamentally flawed law.”
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Administrator Charles F. Bolden regarding the response his agency sent regarding previous questions into NASA’s contracting practices, and alarming new information about the ongoing investigation: Dear Administrator Bolden: Thank you for responding to my November 18 letter regarding NASA’s Integrated Communications Service contract. In the response, your staff stated that NASA has conducted a thorough review of the issues that I raised, and if subcontractors have concerns then they should be addressed to SAIC. The issues I raised are very serious and should not be dismissed as contracting disputes between vendors. In fact, my office has received detailed information from a whistleblower about this investigation. I have provided this information to Inspector General Paul Martin. The whistleblower raises serious concerns about illegal expenditures and unethical activity. I would like you to address the following questions and document requests. • Did NASA’s CSO Deputy Director direct project manager to single source a product called CISCO Identify Service Engine (CISCO ISE)? o If yes, why? o Did SAIC recommend and/or encourage the CSO in anyway regarding CISCO ISE? • Does NASA Policy Directive 7120.99 require NASA, or its contractors, to evaluate all market options, fully and fairly, for its procurements? o Are there waivers for Directive 7120.99? o Was there a waiver provided relative to the procurement of CISCO ISE? o If yes, why? o Please provide me with a copy of any document or waiver that would authorize SAIC to disregard standard project management processes and procurement policies. • Are you aware of a $600,000 fee, or any fee, being paid to CISCO? o If yes, why was this fee paid? o If yes, who paid the fee? o Was it paid from the EIB-NAC budget? • Please provide me with a copy of the EIB-NAC formulation authorization document. • Is the SAIC manager aware of a $600,000 fee paid to CISCO? o Has he sent or received e-mails referencing $600,000? o If he corresponded via e-mail with a government official about this fee, please provide the relevant e-mails to me. Please respond to this letter and provide me with the requested documents by March 9, 2016. Thank you for your prompt attention. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Chairman Emeritus House Science, Space and Technology Committee
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) sent a letter to Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) Director James B. Comey regarding the use of cell-site simulators, known as Stingrays, on both the state and federal levels. Of particular interest is the use of nondisclosure agreements (NDA) to prohibit law enforcement from discussing use of Stingray technology. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “While Stingray technology is a powerful tool that helps intelligence agencies and law enforcement find wrongdoers, it should not have been deployed on our streets under a veil of secrecy. The public has a right to debate the merits of the technology, and criminal defendants have a right to challenge the evidence against them. The FBI’s use of nondisclosure agreements with state and local law enforcement is completely unacceptable.” Congresswoman Jackson Lee: “The use of cell-site simulators, also known as Stingrays, in the United States is not at all transparent and it needs to be. We cannot put gag orders on our nation’s law enforcement. While the FBI should have the authority to investigate crimes that already have occurred along with imminent criminal activity or threats to the homeland as well, stealth investigations using Stingrays should have safeguards. The FBI should immediately withdraw the non-disclosure agreements and replace them with guidance mandating that local police get probable cause warrants and directing them to begin disclosing accurate information to the public and the courts.” Full text provided below: Dear Director Comey: A February 1, 2016, article in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel highlighted the Milwaukee Police Department’s use of cell-site simulators, also known as Stingrays. The Fourth Amendment implications of this technology are currently being debated by state legislatures, and courts are weighing the legal arguments. We will watch closely as those debates unfold, but in the meantime, we are writing to raise serious reservations regarding the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) use of nondisclosure agreements (NDA) to prevent state and local police from discussing the use of Stingray technology. The NDA the Milwaukee Police Department signed reads: In order to ensure that such wireless collection equipment/technology continues to be available for use by the law enforcement community, the equipment/technology and any information related to its functions, operation, and use shall be protected from potential compromise by precluding disclosure of this information to the public in any manner including but not limited to: in press releases, in court documents, during judicial hearings, or during other public forums or proceedings. The FBI’s stated reason for secrecy was that disclosing the existence of the capabilities may allow “the subject of investigation wherein this equipment/technology is used to employ countermeasures to avoid detection by law enforcement.” But certainly not lost on the FBI was the fact that secrecy shields the technology from debate and inevitable controversy. Courts could not review its constitutionality. The public could not debate the merits and costs of the technology and what limitations might be appropriate. While this type of secrecy may be appropriate in the national security context, it is entirely inappropriate in the context of law enforcement where citizens have the constitutional right to challenge the government’s evidence against them We are not prejudging the outcome of the debate over the use of Stingray technology, but we categorically denounce the use of nondisclosure agreements that limit the ability of the public and of courts to debate the merits of the technology and to implement limits they may deem appropriate. The overlap between intelligence and law enforcement also raises national security concerns. If the technology is so important for national security that it must be kept secret, then its use for routine law enforcement was inappropriate. Either the technology should have been kept secret as a vital national security tool or it should have been made public so that it could be used by law enforcement. Instead, the Bureau tried to have it both ways and the foreseeable result was exactly what happened – the secrecy of the technology has been compromised, serious privacy questions have been raised, and countless criminal convictions are in jeopardy. Worse, local jurisdictions are now subject to increasing litigation over the secretive use of the cell-site simulators. The lawsuits will inevitably divert time and resources that could have been spent protecting and serving our communities to legal battles that could have been averted. It could also put in jeopardy hard fought convictions. We are aware that the FBI has, to some degree, retreated from its use of NDAs regarding cell-site simulators. The Bureau even argued that the agreements do not prevent police from disclosing to courts that they used such equipment: The NDA should not be construed to prevent a law enforcement officer from disclosing to the court or a prosecutor the fact that this technology was used in a particular case. Defendants have a legal right to challenge the use of electronic surveillance devices, and not disclosing their use could inappropriately and adversely affect a defendant’s right to challenge the use of the equipment. This, however, is at odds with the explicit language of the NDA which precludes disclosure to the public in any manner “including but not limited to: in press releases, in court documents, during judicial hearings, or during other public forums or proceedings.” The agreement, in fact, goes much further and states that the Milwaukee Police Department should seek FBI permission before responding to court ordered disclosures and should be prepared to dismiss cases at the FBI’s request if necessary to protect against disclosure. We are also aware that the Department of Justice has issued new guidance on federal use of cell-site simulators. It is not, however, clear that the FBI has rescinded the NDAs it signed with state and local police around the country. The FBI’s failure to do so subverts justice and subjects state and local law enforcement to needless litigation. We appreciate a prompt response to the following questions: • Does the FBI consider state and local law enforcement to be bound by the NDAs related to the use of cell-site simulators? • Has the FBI ever requested that a law enforcement agency dismiss a case to maintain the secrecy of law enforcement technology? • How many NDAs has the FBI signed with state and local law enforcement agencies regarding cell-site simulators? • Are there other technologies for which the FBI demands state and local law enforcement sign an NDA? • Does the FBI continue to believe that NDAs are appropriate? • Would the FBI ever condone perjury to Congress or judges to protect the existence of technology? Please respond to the above questions by March 25, 2016. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress Sheila Jackson Lee Member of Congress
02.24.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on President Obama signing the Judicial Redress Act into law: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The President’s signing of the Judicial Redress Act shows America’s commitment to rebuilding trust between allies and demonstrates our nation’s willingness to act in good faith with our European allies to secure open lines of communication between law enforcement agencies. This is a significant achievement for our country, our allies, and for the safety and security of the United States.”
02.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner received the following response from NASA to his November 18th letter, seeking answers on the agency’s contracting practices: Dear Congressman Sensenbrenner: Thank you for your letter dated November 18, 2015, regarding open competition under the NASA Integrated Communications Services (NICS) contract. In 2011, NASA competitively awarded the NICS contract to Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) to manage, maintain, and positively transform NASA’s communications services. NASA is currently in the midst of this ten-year contract with SAIC. NASA has conducted a thorough review of the issues raised in your letter, providing the following answers to the specific questions posed in the letter. Your letter requests a copy of a June 17, 2015, presentation regarding the External Border Protection (EBPro) project. The purpose of the EBPro project is to improve the security of NASA’s networks and information technology (IT) infrastructure. SAIC has informed NASA that it continues to conduct product selections for several elements of the EBPro solution, as the NICS contract requires, and that two more key elements are still undergoing requirements validation and product testing. At this time, NASA is unable to release the requested presentation since it was created as part of a planned product selection process and contains competition sensitive information. Additionally, the presentation contains highly sensitive information affecting the Agency’s ability to provide a safe and secure environment for persons and property as well as NASA’s critical infrastructure information. Your letter also requests “An explanation of whether and why the NICS Approved Product List (APL) includes the products of only one manufacturer for its LAN wired and wireless network approved product line.” In fact, the NICS APL for Local Area Network (LAN) wireless contains two vendors, and the NICS APL for LAN wired contains one vendor. In order to efficiently meet the communications architecture that NASA has established in the NICS contract, SAIC has defined internal engineering processes such as the APL and standard design guides to achieve standardization. Through the APL process, SAIC defines system requirements to meet NASA’s target architecture and service requirements, then conducts market research and selects vendor products that best meet NASA’s needs. NASA is then able to concur in SAIC’s product recommendations. Under the NICS contract, SAIC determines when it is in NASA’s best interest to either conduct a competitive selection process for a product or proceed with only one vendor’s product on the APL (Supported by a business case). In reaching this determination, SAIC compares numerous products and considers many relevant factors, such as: product cost, cost of maintenance and operations, standardization efficiencies, financial viability of the manufacturer, independent product ratings (such as Gartner of Forrester), support staff training, supply chain management, and total cost of ownership to NASA. Your letter requests “An explanation of NASA’s role in the development and modification of the NICS APL.” Pursuant to the terms of the NICS contract, NASA’s Communications Services Office (CSO) Service Element Manager reviews all APL product recommendations, the rationale for selection, and provides concurrence. SAIC then briefs the NASA Communications Services Board on the APL product selection, rational and alignment with the target architecture. For NICS Fixed-Price reimbursement, letter, or time & materials subcontracts, SAIC is required to present its produce selection to the NASA Contracting Officer (CO), along with the business case analysis and rationale for product selection. The NASA CO, along with a CSO technical representative, reviews the product selection process and the rationale for the selected product, and provides SAIC with consent to proceed. The NASA CO also periodically reviews and provides input on subcontracting procurements under $500K. Your letter also asks the following questions: 1. Does NASA support only one manufacturer being listed on the NICS LAN wired and wireless network APL? 2. Does NASA support the inclusion of multiple qualified manufactures on this list? As stated above, the NICS APL for LAN wireless contains to vendors, and the NICS APL for LAN wired contains one vendor. While NASA supports the inclusion of multiple qualified manufactures on the APL through a competitive product selection process as provided under the terms of the NICS contract, the NICS contract does not require all APL products to be competed. In certain instances, and as allowed under the terms of the NICS contract, NASA has accepted SAIC’s recommendations for the continuation of one product on an APL when SAIC’s recommendations have been supported by a strong business case and rationale. Also, these APL items may be selected for a product competition in the future when the products reach end of life or meet other criteria. NASA has conducted a thorough review of the issues raised your letter and determined that nay issues that NICS subcontractors (or alternate vendors) have regarding product selections are a contractual matter between those entities and SAIC, the NICS prime contractor. NASA recommends that if any subcontractors have further concerns, they should be addressed directly to SAIC. We appreciate your interest in this matter and trust this information will be useful. Sincerely, L. Seth Statler Associate Administrator For Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen, asking him to account for the additional funds appropriated by Congress for better taxpayer service: Dear Commissioner Koskinen: I am writing about a matter of great concern to me and the taxpayers of my district. As you know, in December of last year, an additional $290 million was provided to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for taxpayer services in the FY16 Consolidated Appropriations Act. I remain concerned that many of the problems that plagued the agency’s taxpayer service in 2015 will continue in 2016. The IRS recently told Congress and taxpayers to again expect wait times before people can get through, “since the additional funding is still less than needed.” During testimony last year, you admitted that your agency reallocated millions of dollars from taxpayer services to fund your role in implementing the Affordable Care Act (ACA). All this while many honest taxpayers were struggling to find assistance with their tax questions, particularly over the phone. In fact, last year only 38 percent of taxpayers who wanted to speak with an IRS assistor were able to reach one, and those lucky enough to get through had to wait for 30 minutes on the phone. Unfortunately, service over the phone was not the only service lacking. Your agency also struggled with providing timely walk-in assistance, correspondence overage rates, and online customer service security. In all, 2015 was a customer service nightmare for taxpayers. Given your agency’s history of reallocating funds, I am requesting a full accounting of the extra funds appropriated to your agency this year for taxpayer services. With tax season in full swing, I expect a plan has been laid out and implementation is in progress. It is critical that the IRS share its plan with Congress about what it intends to do to improve various categories of customer service, and how it intends to spend its money to address these issues. I remind you, the IRS exists to “provide America’s taxpayers top quality service by helping them understand and meet their tax responsibilities and enforce the law with integrity and fairness to all.” I expect the money appropriated for customer service be spent accordingly. We owe it to taxpayers to assist them in fulfilling their obligation to file their taxes correctly and on time. Please provide a full accounting of how you intend to spend the additional funds by March 3, 2016. Thank you for your prompt response to this matter. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement congratulating the Senate Judiciary Committee on the passage of the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA): Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The Senate Judiciary Committee’s passage of the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act brings us one step closer to achieving serious, life-changing legislation that will address the devastating heroin and opioid epidemic in this country. This bill will help individuals, families, and entire communities as they fight against addiction, and remain a critical piece of our overall efforts to reform our broken criminal justice system.”
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the passage of the Judicial Redress Act in the House of Representatives: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Yesterday’s passage of the Judicial Redress Act in the Senate, and its passage tonight in the House of Representatives, is a clear indication of the importance of this smart, bipartisan legislation. As this bill heads to President Obama’s desk, I’m optimistic that it will be signed into law, completing a critical agreement with our allies and securing a safer future for the United States."
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the Senate’s passage of the Judicial Redress Act: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The passage of the Judicial Redress Act in the Senate brings us one step closer toward completing an important agreement between the United States and our European allies, allowing the exchange of critical information and rebuilding trust between nations. The ability to transfer data between international law enforcement agencies is paramount to our nation’s safety, and I applaud my colleagues in the Senate for passing this crucial legislation."
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement in response to President Obama’s final budget proposal: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Our national debt is approaching $20 trillion, but that did not deter President Obama from advocating for billions of dollars to expand government and fund his liberal agenda in his 2017 budget proposal. Rather than giving Americans in need a hand up, the President is quick to offer hand-outs, which will lead to greater debt, a weaker American economy, and increased government dependence. Rather than seizing his last opportunity to put forth a serious, fiscally solvent budget proposal, the President defaulted once again to playing politics at the expense of the taxpayer.”
02.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Each year, CQ Weekly releases a comprehensive vote study featuring the records of each Member of Congress. In 2015, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner obtained a perfect voting record of 100 percent by not missing a single vote. Only 22 of the 435 Members of the House of Representatives achieved this rating. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Elected Members of Congress are put in office by voters to best serve the interests of the people and communities they represent. It’s a unique responsibility – one I have never taken lightly. I’m proud of my thoughtful and consistent voting record, as well as my dedicated service to the people of Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District, and will continue working diligently on behalf of my constituents as long as I serve in the United States House of Representatives.” The complete vote study scores can be found in the February 8th edition of CQ Weekly.
02.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Over the past few years, researchers, independent advocacy groups, law enforcement and federal agencies, and bipartisan Members of Congress have been working together in an effort to reform America’s broken criminal justice system and find solutions to some of the country’s most devastating challenges. One such challenge is widespread heroin and opioid addiction. Between 2002 and 2013, national heroin deaths nearly quadrupled, reaching more than 8,000 annually by 2013. In that same year, an estimated 517,000 people used heroin – a figure up 150 percent from just six years earlier. Throughout the United States, addiction is ravaging communities and destroying lives. Last year, in an effort to combat this deadly epidemic, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA), which offers a critical first step toward ending heroin and opioid addiction. Provisions within the bill establish community-based anti-drug coalitions, a national education campaign aimed at deterring new and young users from trying the drug, and creating alternative incarceration programs and outpatient treatment centers for non-violent drug offenders. Additionally, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently announced its plans to reassess the agency’s approach to opioid medications. According to the FDA, the proposed multifaceted plan will focus on policies aimed at reversing the epidemic, while still providing effective medication. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “For more than a decade, there has been an alarming rise in heroin and opioid addiction, causing devastation to individuals, families, and communities throughout the nation. Last year, I introduced the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA) to address this serious problem. With a Senate companion bill and the FDA’s newly reaffirmed commitment to finding solutions, I’m confident in the direction our country is headed toward solving widespread addiction.” A companion bill has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse [D-RI]. Both bills await passage in the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, respectively.
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement in support of the efforts of the City of Waukesha to borrow water from Lake Michigan: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The City of Waukesha has gone through extensive public and environmental processes, and meets the requirements necessary under the Great Lakes Compact to borrow Lake Michigan water. As the city’s application goes before the Great Lakes Regional Compact Council for review, I’m optimistic it will be approved and Waukesha will have the necessary access to a safe water supply.” Congressman Sensenbrenner also sent the following letter of support to the Regional Body Designees and Compact Council Alternates and Secretariat: Dear Regional Body Designees and Compact Council Alternates and Secretariat, The City of Waukesha’s application to borrow water from Lake Michigan is now entering the next, and possibly final, stage. Waukesha, which is under court order to find a new drinking water supply, has been examining its options for more than a decade. The state of Wisconsin has been analyzing the issue for at least five years. Ultimately, Wisconsin’s Department of Natural Resources determined the city’s application meets the criteria for approval as laid out by the Great Lakes Compact, an agreement between the states and Canadian provinces that border the Great Lakes. The city’s application is now before the Great Lakes Regional Compact Council, which will have the final say. I support approval of Waukesha’s application because it clearly complies with the requirements laid out in the Compact and the city has proposed a reasonable and environmental responsible plan. The regional review process was designed to be unbiased and based on science and key criteria contained in the Compact. The Compact was established so that every community directly impacted by the Great Lakes would have a voice. This was necessary to ensure that decisions about the Lakes would not be driven by politics. The process is rigorous and exhaustive. It’s a lot harder to do it this way, but the result will be rooted in true democracy and based on science and planning, not public pressure. Of course, the public should have its say and the regional review process provides for an opportunity for that to occur. Through public events and online forums, public input has been and will continue to be registered. But the Compact is clear about what qualifies a community to receive Great Lakes water. Among the most important standards for approval are: that the community making the request be in a county that straddles the Great Lakes Basin divide and that the community has the ability to return the water it borrows. These standards wisely protect everyone in the Great Lakes Basin by ensuring that Great Lakes water is not sent to faraway locations outside the basin. Should an application be rejected for reasons not discovered as part of the fact-finding process, the Compact and the communities it is meant to serve would suffer. Waukesha meets these requirements. The city has instituted a comprehensive water conservation program to reduce existing and future needs for water but still needs a new water supply. The current water supply is depleted and contains natural contaminants such as the carcinogen radium. The request to borrow Great Lakes water comes after the city considered 13 other potential options and conducted an in-depth analysis of the five other prospective water supply alternatives to Lake Michigan. Three different entities (the City of Waukesha, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources and regional planning officials) held more than 100 public meetings and independently found that none of the alternatives proved to be environmentally sound, cost-effective or sufficient compared to Great Lakes water. Waukesha’s plan makes sense and protects the Great Lakes at the same time. It would withdraw a minimal amount of water (equal to 1/1,000,000th of 1% of the Great Lakes volume) from Lake Michigan via an existing water supply pipeline and would return the same volume of water to a tributary river after it has undergone advanced treatment. There will be no net loss of Great Lakes water to the basin. The enhanced flow in the tributary will in fact improve a fish egg collection facility that is downstream from where the return water will be discharged, providing a benefit to the Great Lakes fishery. Approval of Waukesha’s application does not have to be a choice between a safe water supply for the city and protecting the Great Lake. Under the terms of the Compact, both are possible. The communities of the Great Lakes need the Compact to be successfully utilized so that important water issues are properly managed and the Great Lakes are protected today and into the future. Waukesha’s application should be approved in order to show that the Compact - and the regional cooperation and trust that fostered it - is working. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, Jr. Member of Congress
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the agreement reached between the United States and the European Union Commission regarding a new framework for transatlantic data sharing: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today’s agreement between the United States and the European Union Commission on a new framework for transatlantic data flow is a positive step in the right direction toward ensuring the continued sharing of commercial data between friendly nations. The framework is an absolute necessity for over 5,000 U.S. businesses. I look forward to the Congressional passage of the Judicial Redress Act and ongoing efforts to rebuild trust with our international allies.”
01.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the Senate Judiciary Committee’s passage of the Judicial Redress Act: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today’s passage of the Judicial Redress Act in the Senate Judiciary Committee marks a positive step forward toward rebuilding relationships with our international allies and strengthening our own national security. I look forward to a full Senate vote on this critical legislation soon.”
01.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy regarding the water crisis in Flint, Michigan, and the EPA’s poor and outright dismissive response to the situation: Dear Administrator McCarthy: I write to you about the water crisis that Flint, Michigan is experiencing. The distrust that Flint’s residents, and millions of other citizens, have for our government is disturbing. It is widely reported that your agency contributed to the cynicism people are feeling, particularly in Flint. Revelations that an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) official ignored scientific findings and lied to the people of Flint come just weeks after finding that your agency could have prevented the Gold King Mine Spill. It is no wonder that the American people are growing ever more dissatisfied with the level of service that our government agencies provide. The government’s first obligation is to protect the health and welfare of its citizens. Allegations that the EPA ignored or even hid scientific data about people being poisoned are deeply disturbing. We may be at different ends of the political spectrum, but I want to support your mission to “protect human health and the environment.” However, I am deeply concerned about the culture of an agency that consistently persecutes honest business, promotes special interest and liberal political darlings like the ethanol industry, and then blatantly ignores or even covers up a public health crisis. The EPA must refocus on its core mission and stop promoting political agendas like ethanol, alternative energy, and cap-and-trade policies that do more harm to our economy than they do good for our environment. It is clear that your agency is too absorbed with these issues and is missing things that cause immediate harm to our citizens. First and foremost, the EPA must fulfill its core duties. To begin the process of restoring trust in your agency, you should recommit to fulfilling President Obama’s promise of leading the most open and transparent government. Open government ensures accountability, and your agency must commit to opening your scientific studies to the American people. I would also like you to address the following questions: • Was the EPA in contact with researchers from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) regarding Flint, Michigan’s water supply? o Please provide all correspondence between Virginia Tech and the EPA to me. • Did the EPA learn from any other sources that Flint’s water supply was contaminated? • Did the EPA collect its own water samples in Flint? o If yes, what were the results? o If no, why not? • Are there other water supplies that the EPA is currently investigating for possible lead contamination? Please respond to this letter by February 18. Thank you for your attention. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Chairman Emeritus House Committee on Science, Space & Technology
01.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the lowering of Obamacare enrollment projections: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today, the Congressional Budget Office announced that the number of Americans expected to buy health insurance through the Obamacare exchanges was cut by more than one third. Millions of Americans continue to go uninsured because the President’s “signature achievement” is not only too expensive, but provides lower quality care. Today’s announcement is yet another example of the continuing failures of this disastrous policy.”
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union address: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Since his first State of the Union address, President Obama has delivered thousands of empty words, and tonight was simply more of the same. But the American people will no longer tolerate flowery rhetoric followed by broken promises. We have an opportunity to pursue bold ideas and reclaim America’s promise in 2016. That is why Republicans are putting forth a focused agenda that will empower our citizens, rebuild faith in our future, and restore a confident America. It’s time to leave the President’s hollow words behind us and look forward to a prosperous new era for all Americans. ”
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the passage of the Second Chance Reauthorization Act: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “We’ve seen time and again that the initiatives put forth in the Second Chance Act work. In addition to saving significant taxpayer dollars, this legislation gives imprisoned individuals the tools they need to successfully re-enter society and become contributing members of their communities. With broad bipartisan support, this targeted bill will enhance our overall efforts to bring serious and desperately needed reform to our failing criminal justice system. I’m proud to be a sponsor of the Second Chance Reauthorization Act and am pleased by its passage today."
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced legislation to temporarily suspend for 2016 the mandatory withdrawal of retirement savings from qualifying retirement accounts. Federal law requires Americans who are 70 ½ years or older to take the required minimum distribution (RMD) from their individual retirement accounts (IRA) each year. The stock market is off to a rocky start, making many investors nervous, and some seniors may decide it is in their interest to keep their retirement savings in the markets rather than taking the required minimum distribution. The RMD rules would be restored in 2017. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Given that indices around the world are already experiencing a great deal of volatility in 2016, it seems only fair to give Wisconsin seniors the option to forgo withdrawing the required minimum distribution from their retirement accounts without incurring a tax penalty from the IRS this year. This bill is about giving people choices, plain and simple.”
01.08.2016	Brookfield, WI – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner announced today that 19 students from Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District have received nominations to the U.S. service academies. “The Fifth District students selected this year as nominees to the various United States service academies are truly remarkable and will do their families and communities proud in both their academic and professional endeavors,” said Sensenbrenner. “Our country needs strong leaders to protect and serve, innovate and inspire – I have no doubt these fine young men and women will do just that, and continue to be a credit to our state and this nation.” Nominees for the United States service academies were chosen from an impressive group of qualified applicants residing throughout Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District. The Congressman’s Academy Selection Committee put forth its recommendations for nomination after reviewing each individual candidate and conducting in-person interviews. Of the 19 students, three have been named principal nominees. If the principal nominee meets the academic, physical, and medical standards set by the academy, they are assured an offer of appointment to the academy. If a principal nominee does not qualify or chooses not to attend, the alternates compete for the vacancy. Alternates are also part of a pool of applicants from which the academies will select the incoming class. Principal Nominees: Alexis Fredericks of Brookfield has been named a principal nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY and an alternate nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Alexis, daughter of John Fredericks and Amelia Frankum, is a senior at Waukesha South High School. Celeste Fohey of Pewaukee has been named a principal nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Celeste, daughter of Anthony and Hilda Fohey, is a senior at Brookfield East High School. Dominic Haight of Oconomowoc has been named a principal nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and an alternate nominee to the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY. Dominic, son of Daniel and Ranea Haight, is a senior at Catholic Memorial High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Dodge County: Jazmyn Trudeau of Oconomowoc has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Jazmyn, daughter of Leo and Petronella Trudeau, is a senior at Oconomowoc High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Jefferson County: Brianna Halvorsen of Fort Atkinson has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Brianna, daughter of Daniel Halvorsen and Nicole Linksens, is a senior at Fort Atkinson High School. Wilder Wichman of Watertown has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Wilder, son of Joseph and Shelby Wichman, is a senior at Johnson Creek High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Milwaukee County: Alexander Idonije of Greenfield has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY. Alexander, son of Kunle and Elaine Idonije, is a senior at Wayland Academy. Christian Van Dellen of Wauwatosa has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Christian, son of James and Penny Van Dellen, is a senior at Milwaukee Lutheran High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Washington County: Andrew Barnhart of Jackson has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Andrew, son of Robert and Sandra Barnhart, is a senior at Living Word Lutheran High School. Stephanie Hopkins of Colgate has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Stephanie, daughter of Ron and Teresa Hopkins, is a senior at Hamilton High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Waukesha County: Rachel Baker of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY. Rachel, daughter of Brian Baker, is a senior at Brookfield Central High School. Andrew Burzinski of Menomonee Falls has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Andrew, son of Joseph and Karen Burzinski, is a senior at Menomonee Falls High School. Riley DeMeulenaere of Brookfield has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Riley, son of Christopher and Ann DeMeulenaere, is a senior at Marquette University High School. Jacob Dickman of Oconomowoc has been named as an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Jacob, son of Peter and Lisa Dickman, is in his senior year of homeschooling. Jacob Fritz of Menomonee Falls has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Jacob, son of Christopher and Johanna Fritz, is a senior at Germantown High School. Jake Hall of Nashotah has been named as an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Jake, son of Matthew and Denise Hall, is a senior at Lake Country Lutheran High School. Cassandra Jehly of Brookfield has been named as an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Cassandra, daughter of Jordan and Naomi Jehly, is a senior at Brookfield Central High School. Joshua Redmann of Waukesha has been named as an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Joshua, son of Matthew and Virginia Redmann, is a senior at Waukesha West High School. Timothy “Tanner” Germann of Menomonee Falls has been named an alternate nominee to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Tanner, son of Tim and Joy Germann, attended the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA) from 2013-2014 before he attended a full-time mission trip to Germany for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He is seeking readmission to complete schooling at USAFA. Congressman Sensenbrenner is currently accepting nomination applications from Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District for those who would like to enter any United States service academy in the summer of 2017. Inquiries concerning this process can be made to the Congressman’s district office in Brookfield at (262) 784-1111, or online at Sensenbrenner.house.gov.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today marks a significant accomplishment in the fight to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act – President Obama’s disastrous healthcare law. H.R. 3762 – The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act – will be placed on the President’s desk today. This legislation would repeal significant provisions included in Obamacare, such as: • Individual and Employer Mandates – H.R. 3762 effectively repeals Obamacare’s requirements that all individuals obtain health insurance in some form or face tax penalties, and that employers with more than 50 employees provide health insurance or face tax penalties. • Medicaid Expansion –Effective in 2018, H.R. 3762 eliminates Obamacare’s expansion of Medicaid, which allowed states to extend health care benefits to individuals and families with income levels up to 138 percent of the federal poverty level. • Health Insurance Subsidies – Effective in 2018, H.R. 3762 repeals Obamacare’s premium tax credit and cost-sharing reductions that help reduce costs for individuals who purchase insurance through state health care exchanges. If signed into law, this bill would also repeal more than a dozen unnecessary and burdensome taxes that were used to help finance the expansion of health coverage under Obamacare, such as: • The Cadillac Tax – H.R. 3762 repeals the law's tax on certain high-value employer-sponsored health insurance plans, which applies a 40 percent non-deductible excise tax on plans valued above certain levels. • The Medical Device Tax – H.R. 3762 repeals the law's 2.3 percent Medical Device Tax that is imposed on a wide array of medical equipment, particularly those used in hospitals and doctors' offices. • The Net Investment Tax – Repeals the 3.8 percent tax on net investment income that became effective in 2013 for taxpayers with incomes above certain levels. Last year, we learned of the horrific and disturbing events taking place at Planned Parenthood clinics throughout the country, including the sale of fetal body parts. If enacted, H.R. 3762 would implement a one-year suspension of federal funding to any entity that performs abortions and receives more than $350 million a year in Medicaid funds; that includes hundreds of Planned Parenthood facilities nationwide. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “From the beginning, my conservative colleagues and I knew that President Obama’s healthcare law was nothing more than bad medicine for the American people. We’ve been working diligently for many years to see its repeal, and today, for the first time, we’ve been able to place significant conservative legislation on the President’s desk that would not only repeal harmful mandates, but eliminate unnecessary taxes on the hardworking American families and small businesses that cannot afford them.” The full text of H.R. 3762 is available here.
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding President Obama’s executive action on firearms: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The President’s aversion to gun rights and the Second Amendment has been blatantly clear throughout his tenure, as has his disregard for the checks and balances on power put in place by our Founding Fathers. Nothing he outlined today would have prevented any of the horrific tragedies perpetrated by bad actors in recent months. Instead of inflicting burdensome and repetitive government regulations on law abiding gun owners, the President must work with Congress to not only identify the root causes of gun violence in this country, but also to find and implement real, Constitutional solutions.”
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding the President’s decision to commute the sentences of 95 prisoners: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “For the second time this year, President Obama has bypassed Congress and commuted the prison sentences of a select few select inmates. While I agree that steps must be taken to address our ballooning prison population, isolated gestures will not solve the massive problems within our federal prison system. The country needs serious, bipartisan reform, passed by Congress, which will extend beyond a few lucky prisoners. As we look forward to the New Year, I’m optimistic that this pressing issue will be addressed with the urgency and thoughtfulness it requires.”
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent a follow-up letter to United States Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack regarding his lack of response to Sensenbrenner’s oversight questions about blender pumps. Sensenbrenner also raised new concerns over the mislabeling and selling of E-15 at blender pumps. Dear Mr. Secretary: I write to you regarding my letter dated July 28, 2015. I requested a response by August 31, but to date, I have not received one. Your response to my questions is very important to me and thousands of my constituents. It is troubling that you failed to respond, and instead decided to announce additional “investments” in the Biofuel Infrastructure Partnership (BIP). Please respond to my letter before the end of this year, and also address some new concerns about blender pumps that have been brought to my attention by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The EPA has informed my office that there are problems with gasoline sampling from blender pumps. To date, the EPA has not informed me of how to resolve the problems that were discovered when collecting samples from these pumps. Additionally, there is evidence that some retailers have been relabeling and selling E-15 at blender pumps. The EPA has been unable to determine if it is legal to relabel and/or sell E-15 as a flex fuel. These are very serious concerns that need to be addressed by the EPA, the USDA, and the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST). NIST may need to evaluate the mechanisms in the blender pumps that may be responsible for missampling. I request that you stop funding for the BIP until Congress, consumers, and retailers are certain that blender pump sampling is accurate, and the legality of relabeling and selling mid-level ethanol blends as flex-fuels is determined. In addition to the questions raised in my July 28 letter, please answer these additional questions before the end of this year. • Were you aware that there were sampling problems at blender pumps? • Do you know the cause of blender pump misssampling? • Were you aware of retailers re-labeling and selling E-15 as a flex fuel? • Will you halt your Biofuel Infrastructure Partnership programs until these issues are addressed, and Congress, consumers, and retailers are confident that fuel sampling is accurate? Please be more prompt in your response to this letter. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Member of Congress
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Political posturing does not make this country safer and it certainly isn’t a serious approach to the challenges we face. The bulk collection of innocent Americans’ data is not only a government intrusion, but it also overwhelms intelligence agents, increasing the likelihood they miss crucial information. Further, the promulgation that the terrorist onslaught in Paris could’ve been prevented under the NSA’s overbearing bulk data collection program is fundamentally false. It was still in effect at the time of the Boston Marathon and Paris attacks, as well as the lead up to the attacks in San Bernardino. USA FREEDOM is carefully balanced legislation that gives intelligence agencies the tools they need to keep America safe. Claims to the contrary are fear mongering, plain and simple.”
11.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) decision to increase the amount of biofuels it will require under 2016’s Renewable Fuel Standards (RFS): Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Calling for more than 18 billion gallons of ethanol to be incorporated into the fuel supply breaks the blend wall and is a slap in the face to the millions of Americans who don’t want it. According to data from the Energy Information Administration, the overall demand for ethanol-free gas is increasing, and it’s easy to see why. “Increasing the ethanol mandate is a dangerous decision that will lead to misfueling, damaged engines, and more emissions and pollution. It is a giveaway to corn farmers and ethanol refiners that guarantees that Americans will be paying more to drive their cars, mow their lawns, and plow their driveways. “The President is continuing to pick winners and losers when it comes to ethanol. The EPA’s decision should be immediately reversed.”
11.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding the alarming indications that UnitedHealth Group, the nation’s largest health insurer, may be opting out of the Obamacare exchanges: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “UnitedHealth Group’s recent threats of leaving the Obamacare exchanges are not surprising, but they’re indicative of what we already knew –the Affordable Care Act is a disastrous policy that harms Americans. Increased deductibles, fewer options in healthcare providers, and a general lack of coverage are not only hurting American businesses, but also the most vulnerable in our society. This terrible initiative was doomed from its conception and should be completely repealed and replaced with a true, free-market system that would provide the first rate healthcare that our citizens need and deserve.”
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sensenbrenner released the following statement on H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Protecting the safety of American citizens should not be a political issue. The American SAFE Act will temporarily halt the admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States until the Obama Administration successfully creates a thorough vetting, identification, and monitoring process. America’s top security experts have voiced their concerns over the current system, which should make the President take pause. This country has always been a world leader in helping those in need, but we simply cannot take a casual approach to our own safety.”
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent a letter to National Aeronautics and Space Administrator Charles F. Bolden, as well as a letter to Inspector General Paul K. Martin seeking answers on NASA’s contracting practices. After awarding a $1.3 billion contract to update the NASA Integrated Communications Service (NICS), NASA’s full and open competition requirements have been called into question. In his letters, Congressman Sensenbrenner calls on Administrator Bolden and Inspector General Martin to address all concerns regarding transparency in awarding Agency contracts. See full letter to Administrator Charles F. Bolden here. See full letter to Inspector General Paul K. Martin here.
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner, along with dozens of bipartisan lawmakers, sent the following letter to President Obama urging him to temporarily halt the admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States. Concerned lawmakers are urging the President to immediately halt the admission of refugees from Syria and Iraq into the United States until the Administration successfully creates a thorough vetting process that will identify all individuals who may pose a security threat, as well as contain an effective monitoring process for all refugees. Dear Mr. President: Our thoughts and prayers remain with victims of the November 13, 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris, and we support your efforts to assist the French people during their time of need. Nonetheless, we cannot ignore that, despite your claims, the recent attacks in Paris and the suspected bombing of a Russian airliner, demonstrate that the threat of ISIS is not contained to Syria and Iraq. Disturbingly, media reports indicate one terrorist killed during the Paris attacks may have arrived in Europe from Syria under the guise of a refugee. These events coincide with your Administration’s plan to raise the United States’ refugee ceiling in order to admit thousands of additional Syrians onto U.S. soil. The United States has a proud tradition of opening its arms to those in need. However, the current conflict raging in the Middle East is unique and we cannot be certain that all individuals seeking refuge from the conflicts in Syria and Iraq pose no threat to Americans. Our first priority must be to protect our own citizens from harm. Consequently, we urge you to immediately halt admissions of refugees from Syria and Iraq onto American soil. We ask that these admissions remain suspended until your Administration creates both a truly thorough vetting process to identify individuals who pose a security threat and an extensive monitoring process for all relocated refugees that ensures Americans are safe from potential threats. In order to meet this standard for effective security screening and monitoring, your Administration must first notify Congress of all policy changes, provide all information used to justify admission for each refugee to the House and Senate Intelligence, Judiciary, and Homeland Security Committees and satisfy the concerns of all Committees. We urge your immediate action to suspend these admissions until effective vetting and monitoring processes are established that ensures the safety of the American people. We look forward to your timely response. See full text here.
11.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – As part of the House Judiciary Committee’s criminal justice reform initiative, members of the House Judiciary Committee unveiled four bills to rein in the explosion of federal criminal law, commonly referred to as over-criminalization. These bills, along with theSentencing Reform Act (H.R. 3713), will be marked up by the House Judiciary Committee on Wednesday, November 18, 2015. The United States Code currently contains nearly 5,000 federal crimes. Recent studies estimate that approximately 60 new federal crimes are enacted each year, and over the past three decades, Congress has averaged 500 new crimes per decade. In addition to the statutory criminal offenses, there are thousands of federal regulations that, if violated, can also result in criminal liability. Many of these laws and regulations impose criminal penalties on people who have no idea they are violating a law. The bills unveiled today address the underlying issues that have contributed to over-criminalization: The Criminal Code Improvement Act of 2015, authored by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), creates a default mens rea standard that applies when federal law does not provide a state of mind requirement so that only those who actually intend to commit the crime can be criminally liable. It also creates uniform definitions for several terms that are used frequently throughout title 18 of the Criminal Code. “Mens rea is a critical issue that must be addressed as Congress examines and puts forth serious criminal justice reform legislation,” said Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner on the introduction of this bill. “Aggressive over-criminalization in this country over the past three decades has left us with a bloated criminal code that makes honest Americans and small businesses vulnerable to the legal repercussions of unintentional violations. Reform is necessary to improve our current standards, reduce our overbearing criminal code, and protect the freedoms of hardworking American citizens.” The Regulatory Reporting Act of 2015, sponsored by Congresswoman Mimi Walters (R-Calif.), which requires every federal agency to submit a report to Congress listing each rule of that agency that, if violated, may be punishable by criminal penalties, along with information about the rule. “The federal regulatory burden has expanded exponentially over the past decades,” said Congresswoman Walters. “Perhaps the worst type of overregulation occurs when unelected bureaucrats put in place regulations that, if violated, carry criminal penalties. This bill takes the first step in reining in federal regulatory overreach and restoring important power to Congress in determining criminal statutes.” The Clean Up the Code Act of 2015, authored by Congressman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), eliminates several statutes in the U.S. Code that subject violators to criminal penalties, such as the unauthorized use of the 4-H emblem or the interstate transportation of dentures. “While we need to make sure that there are appropriate punishments for illegal activity, people should not be criminally prosecuted for honest mistakes or benign behavior,” said Congressman Chabot. “Over the last few decades, there has been a significant expansion of the federal criminal code, and that has led to the criminalization of some activities that simply should not be crimes, such as unauthorized use of an emblem or slogan or the transportation of dentures. Our legislation will help to simplify and streamline the federal criminal code by eliminating several unnecessary and trivial criminal penalties." The Fix the Footnotes Act of 2015, sponsored by Congressman Ken Buck (R-Colo.), fixes the footnotes in the current version of the Criminal Code to address errors made by Congress in drafting the laws. “Constituents expect their representatives to thoughtfully maintain and update the nation’s Criminal Code, to ensure the law is applied justly and effectively,” said Congressman Buck. “To that end, I’m proud to introduce the Fix the Footnotes Act of 2015, which fixes errors that Congress made when originally drafting the laws. While the fixes may only be technical changes, every word is important when Americans’ liberty is at stake.” House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) said the following on the introduction of these bills: “Over the past few decades, the federal criminal code has expanded dramatically. The bills introduced by several of our colleagues make commonsense changes to the federal criminal code to ensure our laws fit within the overall federal criminal law scheme, are appropriate in force relative to other criminal laws, require that a person must intend to commit a crime in order to be criminally liable for that crime, and are necessary. We look forward to moving these bills through the Committee soon.” To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative, click here.
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Monday, Assistant Attorney General Peter J. Kadzik sent a letter to the United States House Committee on the Judiciary in support of the Judicial Redress Act of 2015, bipartisan legislation introduced by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner. Kadzik notes that the Judicial Redress Act is “critical to ensuring continued strong law enforcement cooperation between the United States and the European Union,” and that the “diminishment of lawful information sharing options… would dramatically reduce cooperation and significantly hinder counterterrorism efforts, in addition to the prevention, detection, investigation, and prosecution of other criminal offenses.” Congressman Sensenbrenner: “We live in a time of unprecedented threats of violence, crime, and terrorism. Data and information sharing is a key component to combat these threats, as well as strengthen our international relationships and increase national and international security. The Judicial Redress Act is an important step forward in building trust and cooperation between nations, and with the support of the Justice Department, I’m confident this common sense, bipartisan legislation will be passed by my colleagues in the Senate.” The Judicial Redress Act of 2015 (H.R. 1428) was passed in the House of Representatives on October 20, 2015 and referred to the Senate for consideration. The legislation would extend certain privacy protection rights to citizens of European countries, as well as other allied nations, if the federal government willfully discloses information in violation of the Privacy Act. Under the Judicial Redress Act, citizens of designated countries would be extended the core benefits of the Privacy Act, which already applies to Americans, with regard to information shared with U.S. law enforcement authorities, including the ability to bring a lawsuit for the intentional or willful disclosure of personal information. Many countries already extend such protections to U.S. citizens.
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The tragedy and acts of terrorism recently perpetrated in Paris, France have inspired impassioned responses to our nation’s problems. However, these horrific actions are no excuse for the knee-jerk reactions, political platitudes, and fear mongering we’ve been experiencing from some of my colleagues in its aftermath. “The USA FREEDOM Act was carefully crafted to protect constitutional rights without risking national security. It was passed with the support of the NSA. Any claim that USA FREEDOM hindered the NSA is fear-mongering plain and simple. In fact, the bill’s changes were phased in over a 6 month grace period and haven’t even taken effect yet. This attack happened despite the government’s bulk collection of innocent Americans’ phone data. Once again, bulk collection is not the answer.”
11.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement, criticizing President Obama’s failed energy strategy and its repercussions for Wisconsin and the country: Congressman Sensenbrenner: "Obama's veto of the Keystone Pipeline was a love letter to the environmental activists -- perfectly timed after the Canadian election and just a month before the UN climate conference in Paris. But losing the pipeline means we are forced to use railroads to move crude. Despite having the best freight rail system in the world, this still means increased risks. While the President takes his victory tour in Europe, Americans will be left with fewer jobs, higher oil prices, and an overall weak energy strategy. From the EPA's toxic mine spill in Colorado to the recent spills in Alma and Watertown, examples of Obama's failed policies make it painfully clear that this President cares more about his legacy than sound policy.”
11.06.2015	Yesterday, Wisconsin Congressmen Ron Kind (D-La Crosse) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Menomonee Falls) introduced the bipartisan Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures (AFFIRM) Act. The AFFIRM Act makes bold reforms to crop insurance premium subsidy payments, saves taxpayer dollars and promotes transparency. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The AFFIRM Act makes sensible changes to our nation’s crop insurance program to reduce unnecessary subsidies directed towards our country’s largest and most profitable farms and agribusinesses. These reforms will promote the longevity of agriculture risk-sharing programs and make sure the farm safety-net remains readily available, especially for those who need it most. With our national debt approaching $19 trillion, Congress must continue to work in a bipartisan fashion to reduce excessive spending and ensure future generations inherit a prosperous America. Legislation that will save taxpayers billions, such as the AFFIRM Act, is a step in the right direction.” Congressman Kind: “The current crop insurance system is extremely wasteful and in need of major reform. The AFFIRM Act will save taxpayers $24.4 billion over 10 years while still providing a strong safety net for family farmers,” said Rep. Kind. “Taxpayers deserve to know where their tax dollars are going, and the AFFIRM Act will make that possible. These important reforms not only strike a better deal for taxpayers but will have no out of pocket expense to farmers.” The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the AFFIRM Act will save approximately $24.4 billion over the next decade, and the legislation enjoys bipartisan support from groups such as The Environmental Working Group, National Taxpayer’s Union, Taxpayers for Common Sense, R-Street Institute, Citizens Against Government Waste, and Freedom Works.
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on President Obama’s rejection of the Keystone XL oil pipeline: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The President’s rejection of the Keystone XL oil pipeline is yet another example of his radical personal agenda getting in the way of what's best for the country. Rather than creating thousands of jobs and increasing America’s energy independence, he chose to cave to the demands of environmental extremists and enhance his own liberal legacy.”
10.29.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement of congratulations to friend, colleague, and new Speaker of the House Paul D. Ryan: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “True leaders reveal themselves in times of uncertainty and change. They thrive under pressure and create new paths forward, always working toward the greatest good. Paul Ryan is a true conservative who embodies this type of visionary leadership. His installment today as Speaker of the House gives me renewed confidence and optimism in the direction of our party and country, and I’m certain his experience, skills, and statesmanship will begin a new chapter of prosperity in our nation’s history. Congratulations to my friend and colleague, Speaker Paul D. Ryan, as he enters into this exciting and challenging new role.”
10.21.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the Speaker race in the House of Representatives: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The Republican Party continues to evolve and comprises a diverse body of independently-minded thinkers, all with strong convictions and ideas for the future. While growing pains often accompany change, so does opportunity. At this pivotal moment, we need a leader with the fortitude to withstand the governing challenges ahead, the discipline to remain firm against overwhelming pressure, and the statesmanship to work seamlessly with all Members, both within the caucus and across the aisle. “Congressman Paul Ryan is a true conservative leader who exemplifies what it means to be a dedicated public servant, continually working toward serious solutions to the problems we face as a nation. I fully support Paul as our next Speaker and encourage my colleagues to do the same.”
10.20.2015	Last week, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch regarding the Department of Energy’s Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for energy conservation standards for residential conventional ovens: Dear Attorney General Lynch: I am writing in regards the Department of Energy's (DOE) Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for energy conservation standards for residential conventional ovens. DOE’s decision to group all ovens under the proposed rule into one product class called, “conventional,” would yield limited potential energy savings and function as a serious threat to the long term survival of high-performance companies, forcing them to operate in a different market space, constraining choice for consumers and limiting competition. When evaluating and establishing energy conservation standards, DOE divides covered products into product classes. In determining whether a performance-related feature justifies a different standard, DOE must consider the utility of the feature to the customer and its impact in the lessening of competition. In 2006 and 2008, when faced with a substantially similar question, DOE concluded that high performance products provided a distinct utility to a customer segment and established two separate product classes – one for higher performance products and one for conventional, high production volume products. This year, DOE departed from previously held standards and decided to regulate all ovens under one standard. This ignores that high-performance products offer residential consumers performance and design features superior to other in-home appliances and similar to those found in restaurants. These tiers in cooking performance and design should be considered in any analysis conducted by DOE when evaluating efficiency design options for conventional or high-performance ovens. The main utility of any oven is its cooking performance. The ability of any oven to bake evenly, allow yeast products to rise consistently, and produce consistent quality rack-to-rack when several racks are being used, are key criteria for consumer acceptance. Forcing niche companies to compete in the conventional oven market space by setting a standard that requires designing appliances to employ lighter gauge materials, exposed heating elements, lighter racks, simpler controls and single verses dual convention fan systems will erase the utility and performance features that market analysis shows serves a subset of customers that enables these companies to stay viable. The current position of DOE fails to distinguish high performing products within a larger group of products with vastly different features. Cooking performance will be significantly affected under the current structure of the proposed rule and will leave one market – with significantly fewer players – where differences among products are largely aesthetic. It is important that the industry be able to meet all levels of desired customer utility, while achieving energy efficiency levels that will benefit the consumer in the long-term. In considering comments on DOE’s proposal, I request that you take into consideration its anti-competitive effect and the need for additional product classes within the residential oven market. DOJ has a responsibility to protect competition for the benefit of the consumer and should seriously consider the impact this efficiency standard would have on small, niche market manufacturers and their ability to serve their unique set of customers. Thank you for your attention in this matter. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Member of Congress
10.20.2015	The House of Representatives today approved the Judicial Redress Act of 2015 (H.R. 1428) by voice vote. Introduced by Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), the Judicial Redress Act of 2015 would strengthen partnerships with our allies and ensure continued law enforcement cooperation between the United States and Europe by giving covered foreign citizens the ability to seek judicial redress in U.S. courts to ensure that their privacy is protected. The bipartisan legislation would extend certain privacy protection rights to citizens of European countries, as well as other allied nations, if the federal government willfully discloses information in violation of the Privacy Act. Under the Judicial Redress Act, citizens of designated countries would be extended the core benefits of the Privacy Act, which already applies to Americans, with regard to information shared with U.S. law enforcement authorities, including the ability to bring a lawsuit for the intentional or willful disclosure of personal information. Many countries already extend such protections to U.S. citizens. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte (R-Va.), Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner, and House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers issued the following statement on the passage of the bill: “Today’s bipartisan passage of the Judicial Redress Act will help restore our allies’ faith in U.S. data privacy protections and helping facilitate agreements, such as the Data Protection and Privacy Agreement, that strengthen our trans-Atlantic partnerships with Europe. This bill benefits not only our own law enforcement, but is a sign of good faith to our partners abroad. We are pleased with the resounding bipartisan support that has been shown for this measure by our colleagues, and urge the Senate to take up this measure as quickly as possible.”
10.14.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner has received the prestigious Robert Schuman Medal from the European People’s Party during a ceremony in Brussels. He is only the second American to receive this honor; the first was President George H. W. Bush. The Robert Schuman Medal is awarded to public figures who advance the cause of peace, help reunite the continent of Europe, and fight for the values of freedom and democracy. Congressman Sensenbrenner’s tireless work on behalf of privacy and data-sharing issues between the United States and European Union has helped build positive international relationships and strengthened America’s international security. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I want to thank my European friends and colleagues for presenting me with the Robert Schuman Medal. I’m honored and humbled by this experience and look forward to continuing my work on the critical issues of privacy and data-sharing, as well as strengthening US-EU relationships.” # # #
10.06.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the ruling made by the European Court of Justice: Congressman Sensenbrenner: "I'm disappointed that the European Court of Justice decided on such a bold move. The United States has taken great strides to build strong data protection and privacy controls, such as USA FREEDOM, which was the first curtailment of surveillance authority in the U.S. since the 1970s. It was a thoughtful rethinking of our national security laws that few other countries have undertaken. With the Judicial Redress Act, Congress has taken additional steps toward providing global citizens’ rights over their own data. These efforts will continue in the U.S., as they should abroad, but we must maintain an environment of cooperation and goodwill with our allies. I urge EU and US officials to address this issue and to work to maintain the healthy commercial relationship the EU and the US have worked so hard to build.”
10.02.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reiterated today that the deadline for submitting applications for nominations to attend the United States Air Force, Military, Naval, or Merchant Marine Academies for the 2016-2017 academic year is Thursday, October 15. Late or incomplete applications will not be considered. Eligible applicants are United States citizens with residency in Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District. They must be at least 17 years old but not past their 23rd birthday as of July 1, 2016, and must have reached their senior year of high school. After October 15th, candidates will be contacted by a member of the Congressman’s Academy Selection Committee to schedule an interview. The interview is an assessment of the candidate’s leadership potential, character, motivation, and interests. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I urge interested Fifth District high school students to get their academy applications in to my district office as soon as possible. Any application received after the October 15th deadline will not be considered. My Academy Selection Committee will interview eligible candidates and then make their recommendations to me. The selection process is an exciting time of year and I look forward to learning about the young, outstanding leaders from the Fifth District.” Congressman Sensenbrenner’s district office is located at 120 Bishops Way, Suite 154, Brookfield, WI 53005. Information is available by calling the office at 262-784-1111, or visiting the Congressman’s website at Sensenbrenner.house.gov.
09.25.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the retirement of Speaker of the House John Boehner: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As Speaker of the House, John Boehner led the Republican Party to its largest majorities since the 1920s, and in a contentious political atmosphere where it’s nearly impossible to achieve anything, he has done an exceptional job building relationships, bridging gaps, and passing meaningful and necessary legislation. Speaker Boehner’s congressional career has been one of dedicated service on behalf of his district, his party, and the American people, and he will be greatly missed. I thank him for his constant commitment to this nation and wish him well in his retirement.”
09.24.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement on the Pope’s address to Congress: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “His Holiness, Pope Francis, came to the United States to share inspiring words of faith, charity, and goodwill. While his address to Members of Congress was a milestone in our nation’s history, it would be a mistake to politicize his message of morality. As elected representatives, we are entrusted by the people of this country to act on their behalf on issues of policy and law. While I respect the Pope’s moral vision, how we respond to the world’s challenges is a matter of prudential judgment allocated to elected policymakers.”
09.10.2015	Today, the Science Subcommittee on Research and Technology marked up the Surface Transportation Research and Development Act of 2015. The Subcommittee passed two amendments that will help improve motorcyclist safety and protect taxpayer money. Mr. Sensenbrenner applauds Congressman Hultgren’s amendments, one of which will prevent the federal government from providing grants to state and local governments to create motorcycle-only checkpoints. It requires the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study on the most effective means to prevent motorcycle crashes. The other amendment will prevent the Department of Transportation from using taxpayer money to lobby government officials. Mr. Sensenbrenner added this language to the Surface Transportation Research and Development Act of 1997 and is pleased that the Science Committee continues to work to protect American taxpayers. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I am pleased the Subcommittee adopted these amendments to the Surface Transportation and Development Act, as they are necessary for the safety of our nation’s motorcyclists. The amendments promote motorcyclist safety through crash prevention programs, but they also protect American taxpayers by ensuring that the federal government doesn’t use tax dollars to lobby state governments. It’s a victory anytime we can limit the federal government’s interference in state affairs. It was a pleasure to work with Congressman Hultgren in advancing these amendments. I look forward to these common sense amendments being included in the next highway reauthorization bill.”
09.08.2015	Today, negotiations between the United States of America and the European Union regarding data protection standards have ended in an Umbrella Agreement. Once in place, this agreement will ensure increased protection of personal data between international law enforcement agencies. The Judicial Redress Act, introduced by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner earlier this year, would be the final step in procuring much needed data and technological security between friendly nations. Congressman Sensenbrenner released the following statement, applauding the agreement and urging the passage of the Judicial Redress Act. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Technological advances have not only spurred progress in our world, but also new, sophisticated methods of criminal activity. To help combat this, I introduced the Judicial Redress Act to improve cooperation between United States law enforcement and our international allies. The recent agreement on data sharing between nations is a great step forward for international safety and prosperity. The Judicial Redress Act, however, remains a critical piece in our partnership with the European Union and is critical to ensure continued sharing of law enforcement intelligence. I am optimistic that it will not only be brought before Congress, but will be passed with bipartisan support.”
08.28.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner announced today that he is accepting applications for nominations to attend the United States Air Force, Military, Naval, or Merchant Marine Academies for the 2016- 2017 academic year. Upon submitting an application, candidates will be interviewed by a member of the Congressman’s Academy Selection Committee, composed of local community leaders. The interview is an assessment of the candidate’s leadership potential, character, motivation, and interests. The Congressman will make his nominations based on the recommendations of his committee. The deadline for completed applications is Thursday, October 15, 2015. Late or incomplete applications will not be considered for nomination. Applications are only accepted from United States citizens with residency in Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District. Applicants must also be at least 17 years old but not past their 23rd birthday as of July 1, 2016, and must have reached their senior year of high school. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As a Member of Congress, I have the distinct pleasure of nominating to the service academies the best and the brightest young leaders from the Fifth Congressional District. I urge those who wish to receive an offer of appointment at any one of these prestigious institutions to contact my district office in Brookfield for details relating to the application process.” Congressman Sensenbrenner’s district office can be reached at 120 Bishops Way, Room 154, Brookfield, WI 53005, or by calling (262) 784-1111. Information is also available on Congressman Sensenbrenner’s website at Sensenbrenner.house.gov.
08.07.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to United States Department of Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz requesting an independent, objective study into the effects advanced biofuel blends have in small engines. Dear Secretary Moniz: We write to you regarding the Department of Energy’s (DOE) proposed study entitled Advanced Biofuel Blends in Small Engines. We support studying this issue, but request that DOE conduct the study in an independent, objective, and wholly scientific manner. DOE’s 2009-10 Catalyst Study on the effects of E-15 gas on automobiles raised concerns from consumer and industry groups. Organizations including, but not limited to, the Milk Producers Council, Friends of the Earth, American Petroleum Institute, American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, National Turkey Federation, Outdoor Power Equipment Institute and the National Black Chamber of Commerce cosigned a letter addressing this issue. Meanwhile, the Renewable Fuels Association stated that the Coordinating Research Council’s (CRC) study on E-15 was flawed. DOE also stated that the CRC’s study was deeply flawed. To prevent the Advanced Biofuel Blends in Small Engines study from becoming a political football, DOE should partner with the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to conduct research on this topic. The NAS will provide independent and objective advice to DOE that would satisfy interested parties and stakeholders. As Members of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology your answers to the following questions may be helpful as we conduct oversight of your research on advanced biofuel blends in small engines. Please answer the following questions by August 27, 2015. 1. Do you agree that there was a significant amount of concern regarding studies on the effects of E-15 in automobiles, including the DOE and CRC studies? 2. What is the best way to conduct an independent, objective and scientific study on advanced biofuel blends in small engines? 3. How much do you estimate that a study on this issue will cost? 4. What are your goals for the small engine study? 5. Would it be unusual for DOE to partner with NAS on a scientific study? Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Member of Congress
07.30.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner, chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Congressman Danny Davis (D-Ill.) yesterday introduced the Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2015 with the support of House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and others. The Second Chance Reauthorization Act builds on the success of the original Second Chance Act of 2008 and continues to authorize funding for both public and private entities to evaluate and improve academic and vocational education for offenders in prison, jails and juvenile facilities. Congress passed the Second Chance Act with strong bipartisan support and President George W. Bush signed it into law in 2008. This legislation provides non-profit faith and community-based organizations with mentoring grants to develop support programs such as drug treatment, housing, job training, medical care, and education. Re-entry services have been improved, which resulted in a reduction in recidivism and helped ensure a successful return to society for prisoners who have completed their sentence. More than 100,000 men, women, and youth returning home from prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities have benefited from Second Chance grants providing career training, mentoring, family-based substance abuse treatment, and other evidence-based reentry programs. This investment has also paid public safety dividends. A report from the National Reentry Resource Center highlights how numerous states have experienced drastic reductions in statewide recidivism rates as a result of robust reentry services made possible in part through Second Chance. The outcomes are impressive, but state and local governments as well as non-profit organizations are in dire need of resources in order to ensure that the millions of individuals returning from prison, jail, and juvenile facilities each year continue to receive coordinated evidence-based reentry services. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The Second Chance Reauthorization Act is an important component of my ongoing efforts to reform and improve our federal criminal justice system, save taxpayer money, and strengthen American families. While prisons are important deterrents in our fight against crime, they remain one part of the solution to a complex problem. Rehabilitation efforts, such as the ones in the Second Chance Reauthorization Act, will help prisoners who have paid their debt to society get back on the right path and become successful, contributing members of their communities.” Congressman Davis: “Giving individuals a real second chance has turned lives around in neighborhoods across the country, offering a real alternative to a pervasive and damaging cyclical life of crime. We see the ripple effects everywhere where people are building stable, productive lives and neighborhoods through these federally funded programs. We must not lose this momentum.” Chairman Goodlatte: “The Judiciary Committee recently launched a Criminal Justice Initiative to evaluate proposals to reform our nation's criminal justice system. Prisoner reentry is a key piece of any reform effort. I’m proud to be a cosponsor of the Second Chance Reauthorization Act, which supports state and local reentry programs to reduce recidivism. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT.) and U.S. Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Additional information about the Second Chance Reauthorization Act: • Bill Text • Section-by-Section • One Page Summary
07.30.2015	Yesterday, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner reintroduced the Charitable Giving Act, legislation that would support and encourage charitable giving by carving out the limitations imposed on charitable deductions. In January 2013, the “Pease rule” reinstated and made permanent the overall limitation on all itemized deductions for those with adjusted gross income above the statutory limit. This limits itemized deductions for charitable donations, de-incentivizing individuals from contributing to worthwhile organizations such as hospitals, veterans’ organizations, universities, and disaster relief services. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Non-profits and charitable organizations are the country’s safety nets that provide services and funding beyond what our financially-limited government programs can provide. These organizations heavily rely on the generosity of private donors, and they, as well as the countless people and causes they serve, would suffer from the continued upholding of the Pease rule.”
07.28.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the 2015 results of the annual Fifth District survey. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Each year, I send out a survey to residents of the Fifth District to get direct feedback on the issues that are important to my constituents. As an elected official, my priorities in Congress are determined by the needs of those I represent, and it’s my great honor and duty to take their opinions into account when I vote in the House of Representatives. I appreciate the time and effort Fifth District residents took to complete this year’s survey, as well as their thoughts on critical national issues.” Key Findings: • 75.1% believe the country is headed in the wrong direction • Only 20% rate the economy as “good,” while 76% rate it fair or poor • 47% say Congress should reduce and simplify federal regulations to encourage job opportunities The questions, answer options, and results in full are below: 1) Do you believe the country is headed in the right direction? A. Yes- 15.29% B. No- 75.10% C. Other- 9.61% 2) Rate the condition of the economy. A. Excellent- 1.75% B. Good- 20.19% C. Fair- 45.44% D. Poor- 31.26% E. Other- 1.36% 3) What is the greatest economic challenge facing your family? (Choose one) A. Healthcare costs- 43.22% B. Education costs- 4.52% C. Rising prices of consumer goods- 27.11% D. Debt- 8.25% E. Lack of employment/underemployment- 7.66% F. Other- 9.23% 4) The U.S. spends $7 billion a year on federal prisons. Do you favor reducing prison time for people convicted of non-violent crimes and using some of the savings to create a stronger probation system that includes programs for preventing and treating substance abuse? A. Yes- 51.26% B. No- 32.88% C. Undecided- 15.86% 5) Do you support amnesty for illegal immigrants, or should preference be given to those who are attempting to immigrate legally? A. Support amnesty- 10.14% B. Support giving preference to legal immigrants- 82.31% C. Undecided- 7.55% 6) Do you believe the Obama Administration has been transparent and held itself accountable? A. Yes- 14.42% B. No- 78.95% C. Undecided- 6.63% 7) What is your biggest concern/ complaint with the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare? A. Rising costs/ higher premiums- 54.09% B. Losing health coverage- 6.03% C. Losing physicians- 9.73% D. Its effect on small businesses- 11.87% E. I have no concerns/ complaints- 18.29% 8) Do you support federal subsidies for Obamacare? A. Yes- 22.40% B. No- 64.24% C. Undecided- 13.36% 9) What do you consider the biggest threat to our national security? A. ISIS and other terrorist organizations- 53.83% B. Iran’s nuclear ambitions- 19.06% C. Increased Chinese aggression- 12.18% D. Vladimir Putin and Russia’s growing nationalism- 5.70% E. Other- 9.23% 10) Should the government have the authority to collect all Americans’ phone records in bulk? A. Yes- 14.31% B. No- 76.08% C. Undecided- 9.61% 11) What is the best way for Congress to encourage job opportunities? A. Lower tax burden for business owners- 25.05% B. Reduce and simplify federal regulations- 47.73% C. Raise spending on job training and workforce promotion programs- 16.37% D. Other- 10.85% 12) Do you believe the U.S. should tax its carbon emissions to address climate change concerns, even if developing countries, like China and India, are not under the same restrictions? A. Yes- 27.34% B. No- 63.87% C. Undecided- 8.79%
07.28.2015	Yesterday, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced H.R. 3228, legislation that requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to limit the volume of cellulosic biofuel to be blended into the nation’s fuel supply to what is commercially available until a comprehensive study from the National Academy of Sciences is completed. The Renewable Fuel Standard requires increasing amounts of cellulosic biofuel to be blended into the nation’s fuel supply, but manufacturers have never produced enough fuel to meet the required standard. The EPA has lowered the mandate, but not to the actual level of production. Refiners have therefore paid millions of dollars in fines for failing to purchase an EPA-mandated product that doesn’t actually exist in the quantities the EPA demands. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The EPA sets unachievable standards for our nation’s refiners and the cost of the EPA’s fines are passed on to consumers at the pump. This legislation will ensure any mandates moving forward are fair, attainable, and evidence-based.”
07.27.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner, along with more than 130 House Members, sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch urging an immediate and thorough investigation by the Department of Justice into the practices of Planned Parenthood regarding the sale of fetal body parts. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The atrocious practice of selling fetal tissue acquired by performing an abortion is a travesty that heinously disregards the sanctity of human life. It raises moral, ethical, and legal questions that simply must be addressed with the utmost urgency. That is why I’m joining many of my colleagues in Congress in imploring Attorney General Loretta Lynch and the Department of Justice to conduct a serious and immediate investigation into these despicable practices.”
07.23.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner sent the following letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy regarding her response to his May 12 request for the EPA’s position on numerous inquiries, including E15 labels, misfueling, and Clean Air Act enforcement: Dear Administrator McCarthy: Thank you for appearing before the House Science Committee on July 9 and the EPA’s reply to my letter on July 2. I appreciate your willingness to listen to my concerns and address them. Acting Assistant Administrator McCabe’s response to my letter regarding Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) and the Clean Air Act (CAA) left some questions unanswered and raised new ones. I would like you to address the following questions. • Is it legal to relabel E-15 as flex fuel? • Is it legal to sell E-15 as flex fuel? • If it is illegal to sell or label E-15 as flex fuel, how and when will the EPA inform retailers that it is illegal? • How will the EPA enforce the E-15 Misfueling Mitigation Rule, RVP violations and related CAA provisions? I would also like more information regarding the “industry-funded surveys conducted by an independent party to monitor compliance with EPA E-15 labeling requirements.” • Have industry-funded surveys found retailers relabeling E-15 as flex fuel? • How long has EPA used industry-funded surveys to monitor compliance the E-15 Misfueling Mitigation Rule and pump labeling requirements? o Please provide all survey results to me with your reply to this letter. • Which independent party, or parties, monitored compliance with the EPA E-15 labeling requirements for each year the EPA used the industry-funded surveys? I request that you respond to this letter and document request by August 19, 2015. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Member of Congress
07.22.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner introduced legislation to prohibit the sale of fetal tissue acquired by performing an abortion in response to the shocking revelation that abortion clinics, such as Planned Parenthood, are profiting from harvesting the unborn and selling them to the highest bidder. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Due to a poorly drafted section of federal law, Planned Parenthood and other abortion clinics throughout the country are legally able to sell fetal tissue to research institutions. This despicable practice is morally bankrupt, victimizes the defenseless, and increases profits for reprehensible organizations that have no regard for human life. This legislation is an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to protect innocent lives and fight on behalf of the unborn.
07.20.2015	Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner denounced the Iran deal in his speech to the Watertown Rotary. He joins a growing number of Congressional leaders in denouncing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, which puts America, and her allies, at increased risk of attack by Iran, a known state sponsor of terrorism. Below is an excerpt from his remarks: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “By allowing key restraints on Iran’s nuclear program to expire and lifting military arms and ballistic missile restrictions, President Obama has placed a target on the backs of all Americans. Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism, and giving them billions of dollars in sanctions relief will help them fund their proxy wars on America and our allies. It’s imperative we prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons and terror financing capabilities, and I, along with many of my colleagues in Congress, are committed to reversing this egregious deal brokered by the Obama Administration”
07.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner released the following statement regarding President Obama’s politically-motivated decision to commute the federal prison sentences of 46 drug offenders instead of approaching criminal justice reform in its entirety: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Rather than taking a serious look at criminal justice reform, today President Obama chose to engage in publicity stunts and political pandering. Commuting the sentences of a few drug offenders is a move designed to spur headlines, not meaningful reform. While we in Congress are working on the SAFE Justice Act – targeted, evidence-based legislation, the President is focusing on sound bites instead of sound policy. The American people deserve leadership, not showmanship.”
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) yesterday reintroduced the Private Property Rights Protection Act, which would provide American citizens with the means to protect their private property from inappropriate claims of eminent domain. If a state or political subdivision of a state uses its eminent domain power to transfer private property to other private parties for the purpose of economic development, the state would be ineligible for federal economic funds for two fiscal years following a judicial determination that the law has been violated. Additionally, the federal government would be prohibited from using eminent domain for economic development purposes. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The freedom to own and protect one’s private property is foundational to our country. Congress must fight to protect the private property rights of Americans and reform the use and abuse of eminent domain. Under new leadership in the Senate, I’m hopeful this legislation will pass and restore the government’s power of eminent domain to its limited, proper role.
06.25.2015	Two years after beginning an intensive, comprehensive review of the federal criminal justice system as the leaders of the Over-Criminalization Task Force, Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Bobby Scott (D-VA) today introduced bipartisan, state-tested legislation aimed at safely reining in the size and associated costs of the federal criminal code and prison system. The Safe, Accountable, Fair, and Effective (SAFE) Justice Act of 2015 takes a broad-based approach to improving the federal sentencing and corrections system, from front-end sentencing reform to back-end release policies. It is also the first bill that addresses the federal supervision system – ensuring that probation does a better job stopping the revolving door at federal prisons. The legislation, which is inspired by the successes of states across the country, will reduce recidivism, concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals, increase the use of evidence-based alternatives to incarceration, curtail over-criminalization, reduce crime, and save money. “We cannot allow our criminal justice system to remain on its current trajectory,” said Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI). “It’s not only fiscally unsustainable, but morally irresponsible. The states have been outperforming Congress on criminal justice reform for years, so today’s introduction of the SAFE Justice Act is a major step forward in implementing effective, meaningful reform on the federal level that will enact fairness in sentencing, reduce the taxpayer burden, and ensure the increased safety and prosperity of communities across the country.” Similar to the successful reform packages enacted in many states, the SAFE Justice Act aligns the federal prison system with the science about what works to reform criminal behavior. It reflects the growing consensus among researchers that, for many offenders, tacking more months and years onto long prison terms is a high-cost, low-return approach to public safety. It also looks to the growing number of practices in correctional supervision that are shown to reduce recidivism. “Our criminal justice system is long overdue for reform,” stated Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA) “Chairman Sensenbrenner and I have been working tirelessly for months to find common ground and bipartisan solutions to this problem. The SAFE Justice Act implements the successful, evidence-based reforms from the states and restores accountability, fairness and rationality to our federal criminal justice system. Most importantly, it utilizes an evidence-based approach to reduce overcriminalization and overincarceration and reinvests the savings into community based prevention and early-intervention programs to improve public safety.” In the past 10 years, the federal imprisonment rate has jumped by 15 percent while the states’ rate has declined 4 percent. The drop in the states’ imprisonment rate, which occurred alongside sustained reductions in crime, can be attributed in large part to the more than two dozen states that have enacted comprehensive, evidence-based corrections reforms. “I congratulate Mr. Sensenbrenner and Mr. Scott for their determined and careful work,” stated Rep. Raúl Labrador (R-ID), a member of the House Judiciary Committee. “This bill accelerates momentum building across the political spectrum for criminal justice reforms that protect the public, while offering smart alternatives to punishment.” “I am proud to co-sponsor the SAFE Justice Act and I commend my colleagues, Mr. Scott and Mr. Sensenbrenner, for their commitment to reaching a bipartisan solution to reform our criminal justice system,” stated Rep. Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), a member of the House Judiciary Committee. “So often, minorities and youth are casualties of a harsh institution that imposes incarceration and impedes rehabilitation. This bill is a comprehensive overhaul that will focus on crime and violence prevention on the front end while making strategic investments in young people rather than simply treating all young people with a one size fits all criminal justice approach.” “The SAFE Justice Act will finally spark an important discussion that should have happened long ago,” stated Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL). “Improving our criminal justice system will not only save money for the American taxpayer, but it will also reduce recidivism and restrain an ever-expanding federal government. I commend Representatives Sensenbrenner and Scott for introducing this bipartisan, comprehensive bill.” “The criminal justice system is consistently failing the American people. We incarcerate far too many of our citizens for far too long, spending too much on punishments without rehabilitation and leaving the public less safe,” stated Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-LA). “The systemic problems with our justice system call for broad, comprehensive reform. The SAFE Act will take that step, addressing a wide range of issue to ensure that our justice system uses incarceration for violent and dangerous criminals. Giving individuals who have made mistakes the opportunity to better themselves and walk the right path is not only the right thing to do it will also save millions of tax payer dollars. I am proud to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort to create a more efficient judicial system that will actually keep us safer.” “Over-criminalization is an example of a larger issue for my constituents in Utah: That government has gotten too big and too intrusive,” stated Rep. Mia Love (R-UT). “The Federal Government should follow Utah’s example when it comes to implementing smarter policies to reduce crime, such as finding alternatives to incarceration whenever possible. I am pleased to cosponsor the SAFE Justice Act.” “This is a historic bill. It is the result of years of efforts to identify, compile, and bring to the national level the best, evidence-based practices in criminal justice reform. Through the SAFE Justice Act, we can finally tackle massive, necessary changes to our criminal justice system in a bipartisan way,” stated Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD). “Importantly, we can also reinvest savings into efforts that rebuild the relationship between the public and the police, and make sure law enforcement officers have what they need to do their jobs. I know the SAFE Justice Act will mean great strides for the future of communities like Baltimore, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure it passes.” “I have personally witnessed the good work of mental health courts and the veterans treatment courts. These programs, along with some of the other reforms in this bill, have already been implemented in my home state of Georgia, and we have already started to reap the benefits,” stated Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA). “The SAFE Justice Act would keep violent offenders behind bars where they belong, but also provides a path to a people-centered approach for those who have just lost their way.” “Reducing crime and advancing meaningful criminal justice reform are not mutually exclusive goals,” stated Rep. Scott Rigell (R-VA), who noted that similar reforms enacted in 32 states across America have reduced rates of crime and imprisonment in those states and have returned millions of dollars for reinvestment in programs designed to improve public safety. “The SAFE Justice Act makes evidence-driven reforms that will reduce recidivism, over-criminalization, and over-incarceration without diminishing the integrity of our federal criminal justice system. I commend my colleagues, Mr. Scott and Mr. Sensenbrenner, for their commitment to improving public safety and saving taxpayer dollars.” The SAFE Justice Act will: Reduce recidivism by – • incentivizing completion of evidence-based prison programming and activities through expanded earned time credits; • implementing swift, certain, and proportionate sanctions for violations of supervision; and • offering credits for compliance with the conditions of supervision. Concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals by – • focusing mandatory minimum sentences on leaders and supervisors of drug trafficking organizations; • modestly expanding the drug trafficking safety valve (an exception to mandatory minimums) for offenders who provide substantial assistance to the government; and • creating release valves for lower-risk geriatric and terminally-ill offenders. Increase use of evidence-based sentencing alternatives by – • encouraging greater use of probation and problem-solving courts for appropriate offenders; and • creating a performance-incentive funding program to better align the interests of the Bureau of Prisons and federal judicial districts. Curtail over-criminalization by – • requiring regulatory criminal offenses to be compiled and published for the public; • ensuring fiscal impact statements are attached to all future sentencing and corrections proposals; and • charging the Department of Justice, the Bureau of Prisons, and the Administrative Office of the Courts with collecting key outcome performance measures. Reduce crime by – • investing in evidence-based crime prevention initiatives; and • increasing funding for community based policing and public safety initiatives. Additional information about the SAFE Justice Act: • Bill Text • Section-by-Section • Two-Page Summary
06.23.2015	Today, Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced legislation to sunset the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) after 2022 if the EPA waived specific volume requirements. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 created what is known as the “reset” section of the RFS. If the EPA Administrator waives applicable volumes of the RFS by at least 20 percent for two consecutive years, or by at least 50 percent for a single year, then the EPA is required to modify subsequent RFS volumes starting in 2016. Sensenbrenner’s RFS Sunset legislation is based on the reset section of the EISA of 2007. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The RFS mandates have proven to be an unworkable policy that requires constant updating by the EPA Administrator. In May, the EPA finally released the volume requirements for 2014; 18 months late. If that doesn’t prove that the RFS is bad policy, then I don’t know what does. We haven’t succeeded in repealing the RFS, so it’s time we look forward to a sunset.”
06.23.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today sent the following letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy regarding his earlier request for the EPA’s position on numerous enquiries, including E15 labels, misfueling, and Clean Air Act enforcement: Dear Administrator McCarthy: I write to you regarding my letter dated May 12, 2015. The letter requested a response by June 1, 2015, but to date, we have not received one. I specifically asked for a June 1 response because the summer volatility season begins that day, and the EPA’s position is of great interest to the American public. Consumers have a right to know that fuels are safe and that retailers are using approved labels to prevent misfueling. And Congress has to have confidence that the EPA is enforcing labeling requirements and Section 211(h)(1) of the Clean Air Act. I look forward to your prompt response.
06.18.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today sent the following letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch regarding the Justice Department’s (DOJ) application of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and its potential impact on Wisconsin’s school voucher program, which the Congressman strongly supports: Dear Attorney General Lynch: I understand that your agency is in receipt of my letter dated March 19, 2015, regarding the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) years-long federal investigation into the Milwaukee Parental Choice Program (MPCP). It is my hope that your agency is working expeditiously to draft a response as promised by your predecessor. As I said in my previous letter, the intent of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is clear and should not be misapplied. I continue to worry that the DOJ is inappropriately applying ADA standards intended for public schools against private institutions. The incorrect application of Title II ADA standards will have a devastating effect on the sustainability of MPCP, a program that serves 26,930 means-tested, low-income students. Congress crafted the dual standard explicitly to avoid these hardships. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter, and I look forward to a reply very soon.
06.17.2015	U.S. Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, author of the Judicial Redress Act in the U.S. House of Representatives, applauds the efforts of U.S. Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.),a member of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, in the introduction of the Judicial Redress Act of 2015 in the U.S. Senate. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As stewards of U.S. policy, both foreign and domestic, it is the responsibility of Congress to act in the best interest of both America, and her trusted allies. The introduction of the Judicial Redress Act in the United States Senate is a major step forward in ensuring we maintain important international relationships and promote safety and prosperity in the ever-changing space of data and technology. I applaud the bipartisan efforts of Senators Hatch and Murphy, and their continued work on this critical issue.”
06.15.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) received a letter from United States Trade Representative Michael Froman in response to his inquiry about the inclusion of climate change provisions in Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation. Congressman Sensenbrenner issued the following statement upon receiving Ambassador Froman’s letter: Congressman Sensenbrenner: “International climate change negotiations have the potential to fundamentally restructure the U.S. economy. It is imperative that they are kept separate from trade negotiations and that an international climate agreement is not agreed to by anything less than a treaty, fully-ratified by the U.S. Senate. As a Member of Congress with over two decades of experience with climate change policy, I am pleased to hear that the Administration will not attempt to shoehorn climate talks into trade negotiations. The USTR promised that the TPA would not give the President ‘any new authority to enter climate change agreements.’ If Congress grants the Administration TPA, I intend to work vigilantly to ensure the Administration stands by that pledge and that Congress plays a role in any future climate agreement.”
06.04.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today introduced a resolution celebrating the 100th birthday of the late Les Paul, the “Wizard of Waukesha.” Paul was born June 9, 1915 in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Les Paul played a significant role in the advancement of modern music. A talented inventor, musician and musical pioneer, Paul helped revolutionize the industry through the birth of the solid-body electric guitar. As we approach his centennial birthday, we are reminded of Paul’s contributions to society every time we turn on the radio.”
06.04.2015	U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) reintroduced the Tibetan Refugee Assistance Act today to provide visas to displaced Tibetans. Thousands of Tibetans have gone into exile due to continuing repression in their homeland. These refugees have worked to preserve their religious and cultural identity in exile communities in India and Nepal, but the influx of Tibetans creates many challenges and places an economic burden on these countries. Because they fled Tibet, current U.S. law may consider the Tibetans “firmly resettled” in a third country and might render them inadmissible to the U.S. The Tibetan Refugee Assistance Act addresses this problem by providing 3,000 immigrant visas to qualified displaced Tibetans over a three-year period. The bill supports the well-being of the Tibetan exile community as they strive to find a peaceful solution for Tibet; helps the overburdened settlements in India and Nepal; and gives displaced Tibetans the opportunity to flourish as Tibetan-Americans. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “With the recent earthquake in Nepal, this legislation is more important than ever. Nepal is home to a sizeable Tibetan refugee population, and the disaster has devastated the Tibetan community, especially in remote areas close to the earthquake’s epicenter. This bill is a timely expression of American support for the Tibetan people as they struggle for religious and cultural freedom.” Congresswoman Lofgren: “The Tibetan people are in need of our help, and this bill is a small but useful step in the right direction. The devastation of the recent earthquake in Nepal, coupled with decades of persecution at the hands of the Chinese government make it all the more necessary for displaced Tibetans to be recognized by the United States for refugee assistance and afforded protection under U.S. law.”
06.02.2015	Following the Senate vote approving the USA FREEDOM Act (H.R. 2048) without amendment, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following joint statement: “We applaud the Senate for finally approving the House-passed USA FREEDOM Act. This strong, bipartisan bill contains the most sweeping set of reforms to government surveillance practices in nearly 40 years. The USA FREEDOM Act ends bulk collection, strengthens civil liberties protections, increases transparency for both American businesses and the government, and provides national security officials with new, targeted tools to keep America safe. “The USA FREEDOM Act is a carefully crafted compromise that has the support of the President, the Attorney General, the intelligence community, the technology industry and privacy groups, and most importantly, the American people. The Senate should have acted before three national security provisions expired, but we are pleased that this historic piece of legislation is now on its way to becoming the law of the land.” Learn more about the USA FREEDOM Act here.
05.23.2015	By a vote of 57-42, the bipartisan USA FREEDOM Act failed to reach the 60-vote threshold to advance in the Senate. Following the Senate’s rejection of the USA FREEDOM Act, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following joint statement: “The Senate’s rejection of the USA FREEDOM Act, a bipartisan bill that overwhelmingly passed in the House of Representatives, misses an opportunity to protect our civil liberties while also maintaining our national security. The USA FREEDOM Act is a carefully crafted compromise that has earned the support of the White House, the intelligence community, privacy and civil liberties advocates, private industry, Republicans and Democrats, and most importantly the American people. “The USA FREEDOM Act, which the House passed 338-88, ends bulk collection of data, increases transparency, and prevents government overreach. The bill preserves key intelligence-gathering authorities while prohibiting bulk collection under Section 215, consistent with the Second Circuit Court of Appeals’ decision. Section 215 would remain a valuable counterterrorism tool for the FBI and a targeted call detail records authority would replace the NSA’s current, unlawful program. “Because the Senate has rejected the USA FREEDOM Act, Section 215—and the NSA’s bulk collection program that some in the Senate are trying to preserve—will now expire before the House reconvenes on the evening of June 1. The Senate has failed to make the important reforms necessary, jeopardizing Americans’ civil liberties and our national security.”
05.22.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.): “Senator Burr’s proposal to plug the so-called “holes” in the USA FREEDOM Act is dead-on-arrival in the House. His bill is not stronger on national security, it is just much weaker on civil liberties. This is nothing more than a last-ditch effort to kill the USA FREEDOM Act, which passed the House 338-88. If the Senate coalesces around this approach, the result will be the expiration of important authorities needed to keep our country safe.” USA FREEDOM’s six month transition period was proposed by the NSA. Just this week, NSA Director Mike Rogers wrote that the time period was adequate. There is absolutely no reason to extend a program recently ruled illegal by the Second Circuit for an additional two years. The Amicus provisions in USA FREEDOM are entirely discretionary. These provisions will not cause harmful operational delays. The latest controversy proves the value of sunsets. Now would be the worst time to make these provisions permanent.
05.21.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “Wisconsin exports nearly $24 billion worth of merchandise including manufactured goods and agricultural products and $6 billion in services including business, technical, insurance and travel services. Free, Fair and Effective trade agreements to sell American products overseas will lead to economic growth and help us build a more healthy economy. Other countries want to trade with us because we respect our agreements, their people and intellectual property rights. America remains the beacon on the hill and promoting trade means that we can lift the standards around the world and level the playing field for America—rather than letting Chinese and Russian regimes set the norms. I therefore urge Congress to support Trade Promotion Authority and look forward to reviewing pending agreements.”
05.19.2015	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following statement urging the Senate to pass the USA FREEDOM Act of 2015. “The House of Representatives passed the USA FREEDOM Act last week by an overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 338-88. If the Senate rejects the USA FREEDOM Act, Section 215—and likely the NSA program that some in the Senate are trying to preserve—will expire before we reconvene on the evening of June 1. “The USA FREEDOM Act protects Americans’ civil liberties and enhances our national security. It ends bulk collection of data, increases transparency, and prevents government overreach. The bill also preserves key intelligence-gathering authorities. Section 215 will remain a valuable counterterrorism tool for the FBI and a targeted call detail records authority will replace the NSA’s current, unlawful program. “If Section 215 is allowed to expire, these tools will simply disappear. The Senate will have blocked reform at great cost to the intelligence community. The USA FREEDOM Act is the only option that does not lead down that path. We once again urge the Senate to take up and pass the USA Freedom Act without delay.” Correcting the Record on Section 215 Myth: Congress can act on June 1st to reauthorize or amend Section 215. Fact: Three provisions of the Patriot Act, including Section 215, are set to expire at midnight on May 31, before the House is back in session. According to the Congressional Research Service, ‘absent any reauthorization, beginning at 12:00 AM in the morning of June 1, 2015, §§ 501 and 502 of FISA would read as they read on October 25, 2001.’ Moreover, the current FISA court order authorizing the NSA’s bulk telephone metadata program expires on June 1 at 5:00 p.m. Myth: The USA FREEDOM Act reverts our intelligence-gathering programs to a pre-9/11 posture. Fact: The USA FREEDOM Act enacts sweeping reforms to surveillance programs – ending bulk collection, creating a panel of experts at the FISA court, and mandating transparency – but the bill also preserves key authorities. Section 215 will remain a valuable counterterrorism tool for the FBI. A targeted, narrowly-tailored call detail records authority will replace the NSA’s current, unlawful program. Additionally, the USA FREEDOM Act enhances national security by providing targeted tools to keep America safe. Myth: A brief sunset of Section 215 and other authorities under the Patriot Act is a mere technicality. Fact: If the Senate chooses to allow these authorities to expire, they should do so knowing that sunset may be permanent. The USA FREEDOM Act has earned the support of the White House, the intelligence community, privacy and civil liberties advocates, and private industry. Nearly every member of the House of Representatives demands reform to these authorities. No such coalition exists for a clean reenactment of Section 215.
05.14.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Senator Mike Lee (R-Utah), and Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) issued the following statement Thursday urging the Senate to take up and pass the USA FREEDOM Act of 2015: “Republicans and Democrats in the House and Senate have come together in support of historic legislation that protects Americans’ privacy rights and our national security. The House took an important step this week by overwhelmingly approving the USA FREEDOM Act by a vote of 338-88. The Senate should do the same. The USA FREEDOM Act is a carefully crafted compromise that has the support of the intelligence community, technology industry, and privacy groups. For this reason, we will not agree to any extension of the NSA’s bulk collection program, which has already been ruled unlawful by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. The Senate should not delay reform again this year. Instead, the Senate should immediately pass the USA FREEDOM Act.” Learn more about the USA FREEDOM Act by clicking here.
05.13.2015	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 338-88 the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 2048). This bipartisan bill – introduced by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Section 215 of the Patriot Act, along with two other provisions, are set to expire at the end of the month. The USA Freedom Act expands upon the civil liberties protections contained in the bill approved by the House of Representatives last year. It ends bulk collection of data, strengthens protections for civil liberties, increases transparency, and prevents government overreach, while also enhancing national security. The bill is supported by a broad coalition of civil liberties advocates and technology groups, and has been vetted by national security agencies. It also has the support of President Obama. Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Nadler praised today’s vote in the joint statement below. “The American people have told Congress loud and clear that we need to rein in our nation’s surveillance programs and today the House of Representatives listened to them by passing the USA Freedom Act. This strong, bipartisan bill contains the most sweeping set of reforms to government surveillance practices in nearly 40 years. The USA Freedom Act ends bulk collection once and for all, enhances civil liberties protections, increases transparency for both American businesses and the government, and provides national security officials targeted tools to keep America safe. “In light of last week’s ruling by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals that the government’s bulk collection program exceeds what is authorized under Section 215 of the Patriot Act, the Senate should waste no time defending a program that has been ruled unlawful and take up the USA Freedom Act as soon as possible.” Key Components of the USA Freedom Act: Protects civil liberties: • Ends bulk collection: Prohibits bulk collection of ALL records under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, the FISA pen register authority, and national security letter statutes. • Prevents government overreach: The bulk collection prohibition is strengthened by prohibiting large-scale, indiscriminate collection, such as all records from an entire state, city, or zip code. • Allows challenges of national security letter gag orders: NSL nondisclosure orders must be based upon a danger to national security or interference with an investigation. Codifies procedures for individual companies to challenge nondisclosure orders. Requires periodic review of nondisclosure orders to determine necessity. Improves transparency and better information-sharing with the American people: • Expertise at the FISA court: The bill creates a panel of amicus curie at the FISA court to provide guidance on matters of privacy and civil liberties, communications technology, and other technical or legal matters. • Declassified FISA opinions: All significant constructions or interpretations of law by the FISA court must be made public. These include all significant interpretations of the definition of “specific selection term,” the concept at the heart of the ban on bulk collection. • Robust government reporting: The Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence will provide the public with detailed information about how they use these national security authorities. • Robust company reporting: Tech companies will have a range of options for describing how they respond to national security orders, all consistent with national security needs. Strengthens national security: • Gives the government the tools it needs: Creates a new call detail records program that is closely overseen by the FISA court. • Contains an additional tool to combat ISIS: The bill closes a loophole in current law that requires the government to stop tracking foreign terrorists when they enter the U.S. This provision gives the government 72 hours to track foreign terrorists when they initially enter the United States (it does not apply to U.S. persons) – enough time for the government to obtain the proper authority under U.S. law. • Increases the statutory maximum prison sentence to 20 years for providing material support or resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization. • Enhances investigations of international proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. • Protects United States’ maritime activities from nuclear threats, weapons of mass destruction, and other threats by implementing the obligations of various treaties to which the United States is a party. • Provides strictly limited emergency authorities: Creates new procedures for the emergency use of Section 215 but requires the government to destroy the information it collects if a FISA court application is denied. Learn more about the USA Freedom Act by clicking here.
05.12.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today sent the following letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy regarding E15 gasoline: Dear Administrator McCarthy: Section 211(h)(1) of the Clean Air Act (CAA) restricts the Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) of gasoline sold during summer months in the United States to 9.0 pounds per square inch (psi). The CAA grants a one pound per square in waiver for gasoline containing 10 percent ethanol. The EPA has consistently stated that the CAA only grants the one pound waiver for gasoline containing 10 percent ethanol. When the EPA authorized the introduction “of gasoline that contains greater than 10 volume percent ethanol and no more than 15 volume percent ethanol (E15),” it stated that “EPA interprets the 1.0 psi waiver in CAA section 211(h) as being limited to gasoline-ethanol blends that contain 10vol% ethanol.” In January 2011, the EPA reaffirmed its interpretation stating that “EPA has historically implemented CAA section 211(h)(4) through 40 CFR 80.27(d), which provides that gasoline-ethanol blends that contain at least 9vol% ethanol and not more than 10vol% ethanol qualify for the 1.0 psi waiver of the applicable RVP standard.” When the EPA authorized the introduction of E15 into the marketplace it worked closely with the Renewable Fuels Association (RFA) on regulatory issues and a strategy to mitigate the possibility of misfueling. The agency provided specific conditions that the RFA has compiled into the “E15 Retailer Handbook,” which the EPA provides a link to on its website. The E15 Retailer Handbook states that “E15 may not exceed a maximum RVP of 9.0 psi during the summer volatility seasons (June 1-September 15). It also addresses misfueling concerns by providing a photo of the EPA approved E15 label and states that “the EPA encouraged industry to develop a public outreach and education program.” Despite these statements from the EPA and the RFA, some retailers have relabeled their E15 pumps as flex-fuel during the summer months to avoid abiding by EPA’s interpretation of the CAA’s RVP limits. The EPA classifies E15 as gasoline. Retailers, however, have placed labels on their pumps that state that E15 is not gasoline (see photo 1). These are not the EPA’s approved E15 label (see photo 2 for EPA approved E15 label) that the RFA has made available free of charge to E15 marketers. Given these facts, please address the following questions by June 1, 2015: • Is it legal to sell, dispense, supply, offer for supply, transport, or introduce into commerce gasoline with an RVP in excess of 9.0 psi during summer volatility seasons (June 1-September 15) in the 48 contiguous states? • Is the RFA “E15 Retailer Handbook” correct that the EPA requires E15 pumps to have an EPA approved label? • Photo evidence suggests that retailers are using an unapproved label for E15 pumps. Does Photo 1 or Photo 2 show the EPA approved E15 label? • Does the EPA know who provided the E15 label to retailers shown in Photo 1? • Could these signs be confusing to consumers and lead to misfueling? • How will the EPA address the potential for misfueling? • Does the Clean Air Act authorize a 1.0 psi RVP waiver for gasoline containing more than 10 percent ethanol? • Has the EPA provided a waiver 1.0 psi RVP waiver for E15? • How is EPA enforcing the federal E15 pump label? • How is EPA enforcing E15’s summer RVP? Thank you for addressing these questions.
05.07.2015	The 2nd Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals today ruled that the National Security Agency’s bulk collection of telephony metadata is illegal. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) had the following response: “Today’s court decision reaffirms what I’ve been saying since the Snowden leaks came to light. Congress never intended Section 215 to allow bulk collection. This program is illegal and based on a blatant misinterpretation of the law. It’s time for Congress to pass the USA FREEDOM Act in order to protect both civil liberties and national security with legally authorized surveillance.”
04.30.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 25-2 the USA FREEDOM Act (H.R. 2048). This bipartisan bill – introduced by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.), along with 19 other bipartisan House Judiciary Committee cosponsors – reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. The USA FREEDOM Act expands upon the civil liberties protections contained in the bill approved by the House of Representatives last year. It ends bulk collection of data, strengthens protections for civil liberties, increases transparency, and prevents government overreach, while also protecting national security. The bill is supported by a broad coalition of civil liberties advocates and technology groups, and has been vetted by national security agencies. Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Nadler praised today’s Committee vote in the joint statement below. “Today’s strong, bipartisan vote in the House Judiciary Committee to approve the USA FREEDOM Act demonstrates that surveillance reform is not a partisan issue, it’s an American issue. The USA FREEDOM Act reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs to ensure they operate in a manner that reflects core American values. This bill ends bulk collection once and for all, enhances civil liberties protections, increases transparency for both American businesses and the government, and provides national security officials targeted tools to keep America safe from foreign enemies. “We urge both the House and Senate to move expeditiously on this legislation so that we rein in government overreach and rebuild trust with the American people.” Key Components of the USA FREEDOM Act: Protects civil liberties: • Ends bulk collection: Prohibits bulk collection of ALL records under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, the FISA pen register authority, and national security letter statutes. • Prevents government overreach: The bulk collection prohibition is strengthened by prohibiting large-scale, indiscriminate collection, such as all records from an entire state, city, or zip code. • Allows challenges of national security letter gag orders: NSL nondisclosure orders must be based upon a danger to national security or interference with an investigation. Codifies procedures for individual companies to challenge nondisclosure orders. Requires periodic review of nondisclosure orders to determine necessity. Improves transparency and better information-sharing with the American people: • Expertise at the FISA court: The bill creates a panel of amicus curie at the FISA court to provide guidance on matters of privacy and civil liberties, communications technology, and other technical or legal matters. • Declassified FISA opinions: All significant constructions or interpretations of law by the FISA court must be made public. These include all significant interpretations of the definition of “specific selection term,” the concept at the heart of the ban on bulk collection. • Robust government reporting: The Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence will provide the public with detailed information about how they use these national security authorities. • Robust company reporting: Tech companies will have a range of options for describing how they respond to national security orders, all consistent with national security needs. Strengthens national security: • Gives the government the tools it needs: Creates a new call detail records program that is closely overseen by the FISA court. • Contains an additional tool to combat ISIL: The bill closes a loophole in current law that requires the government to stop tracking foreign terrorists when they enter the U.S. This provision gives the government 72 hours to track foreign terrorists when they initially enter the United States (it does not apply to U.S. persons) – enough time for the government to obtain the proper authority under U.S. law. • Increases the statutory maximum prison sentence to 20 years for providing material support or resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization. • Enhances investigations of international proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. • Protects United States’ maritime activities from nuclear threats, weapons of mass destruction, and other threats by implementing the obligations of various treaties to which the United States is a party. • Provides strictly limited emergency authorities: Creates new procedures for the emergency use of Section 215 but requires the government to destroy the information it collects if a FISA court application is denied. Learn more about the USA Freedom Act by clicking here.
04.30.2015	Congressman Sensenbrenner: The USA FREEDOM Act ends bulk collection, increases transparency, and stops secret laws. Right now, as we speak, the NSA is collecting data on every call made to or from every American. The NSA claims the authority to do this under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act. I was Chairman of this Committee on September 11 and the author of the PATRIOT Act. I can say in no uncertain terms that Congress did not intend to allow the bulk collection of Americans’ records. The government’s over-broad collection is based on a blatant misreading of the law. Last Congress, I introduced the USA FREEDOM Act to re-establish a proper balance between privacy and security. After months of negotiations, the House passed an amended version of the bill with bipartisan support. Unfortunately, the bill narrowly failed a procedural vote in the Senate. So we’re back today. And we have a deadline. As Chairman, I demanded that each of the new provisions in the PATRIOT Act contain a sunset so they would automatically expire if Congress did not reauthorize them. Most of the provisions of the act proved non-controversial and were made permanent. Three provisions—Section 215, Roving Wiretaps, and Lone Wolf—remain subject to sunsets and will expire on June 1. Knowing what we know now, a clean reauthorization of these programs is an express vote in favor of bulk collection. It says to the American people, “your government needs all of your records to keep you safe.” Members who travel home to their districts will have to look their constituents in the eye and say, “I believe the government should collect all of your phone records.” I won’t cast that vote. Not only is it an affront to our civil liberties, it is does not make us safe. For years the NSA has collected our phone records. And yet, it cannot point to a single attack that bulk collection has stopped. The threats we face are real, but it's how we stand up for our rights in the face of adversity that matters. The USA FREEDOM Act acknowledges the risks we face and gives the government the tools it needs to fix them in a framework that is cognizant of the limits of government power. Limits our Founders had the presence of mind to build into our Constitution. And beyond ending bulk collection, with what conceit can we claim self-governance if we concede to the President the ability to make secret laws? My colleagues that share my distrust of the Obama Administration's constant overreach cannot carve out this glaring exception. Make no mistake, if the rule we impose is that the government must follow the rule of law, except in cases of national security, then all matters of importance to the Administration will suddenly take on that hue. No President should be allowed to run the country by himself—without the Congress, without the public. It is not for the executive branch in its sole discretion to determine the public good. I admit this bill isn’t perfect, but as it’s often said, the perfect cannot be the enemy of the good. The bill ends bulk collection. It ends secret laws. And it increases transparency of our intelligence community. And it does all this without compromising national security. Many of the provisions in the bill authorize intelligence gathering, but they do it explicitly, with a narrow scope, in legislation publicly debated in Congress. The United States has the most well-trained and capable anti-terrorism apparatus in the world. And with ISIL and others who detest our way of life, we need this sophisticated counterterrorism infrastructure. I am not naïve to the threats facing our nation. But bulk collection is an affront to civil liberties, and it does not make us safer. The USA FREEDOM Act is a pro-privacy, pro-national security, pro-business bill that deserves your support. I want to thank Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers for all their hard work and the staff for so many long hours. It is imperative Congress support the USA FREEDOM Act and enact it into law. The cost of inaction is dire.
04.28.2015	Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.) today will introduce the USA Freedom Act. This bipartisan bill builds on the Committee’s extensive work on this issue last Congress, containing even stronger protections for Americans’ civil liberties, providing for even greater transparency for both the private sector and government, and preventing government overreach, while enhancing national security. The House Judiciary Committee will mark up this legislation on Thursday, April 30th at 10:00 a.m. in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building. In June 2013, unauthorized disclosures of classified information revealed to the American people that the National Security Agency had been collecting bulk telephony “metadata” under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Following the revelation of this information, the House Judiciary Committee worked extensively last Congress to end the NSA’s bulk collection program: it conducted aggressive oversight of our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under FISA and approved bipartisan legislation in Committee, which was ultimately passed overwhelmingly in the House of Representatives. However, the Senate failed to pass legislation on this issue. Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Nadler praised the introduction of the bill in the joint statement below. “As several intelligence-gathering programs are set to expire in a month, it is imperative that we reform these programs to protect Americans’ privacy while at the same time protecting our national security. The bipartisan bill introduced today builds on the Committee’s work on this issue last year. It enhances civil liberties protections, increases transparency for both American businesses and the government, ends the bulk collection of data, and provides national security officials targeted tools to keep America safe from foreign enemies. We look forward to expeditiously moving this strong, bipartisan bill through the House Judiciary Committee and then through Congress so that we rein in government overreach and rebuild trust with the American people. We thank Senators Lee and Leahy for working on this issue and introducing companion legislation in the Senate.” Key Components of the USA Freedom Act: Protects civil liberties: • Ends bulk collection: Prohibits bulk collection of ALL records under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, the FISA pen register authority, and national security letter statutes. • Prevents government overreach: The bulk collection prohibition is strengthened by prohibiting large-scale, indiscriminate collection, such as all records from an entire state, city, or zip code. • Allows challenges of national security letter gag orders: NSL nondisclosure orders must be based upon a danger to national security or interference with an investigation. Codifies procedures for individual companies to challenge nondisclosure orders. Requires periodic review of nondisclosure orders to determine necessity. Improves transparency and better information-sharing with the American people: • Expertise at the FISA court: The bill creates a panel of amicus curie at the FISA court to provide guidance on matters of privacy and civil liberties, communications technology, and other technical or legal matters. • Declassified FISA opinions: All significant constructions or interpretations of law by the FISA court must be made public. These include all significant interpretations of the definition of “specific selection term,” the concept at the heart of the ban on bulk collection. • Robust government reporting: The Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence will provide the public with detailed information about how they use these national security authorities. • Robust company reporting: Tech companies will have a range of options for describing how they respond to national security orders, all consistent with national security needs. Strengthens national security: • Gives the government the tools it needs: Creates a new call detail records program that is closely overseen by the FISA court. • Contains an additional tool to combat ISIL: The bill closes a loophole in current law that requires the government to stop tracking foreign terrorists when they enter the U.S. This provision gives the government 72 hours to track foreign terrorists when they initially enter the United States (it does not apply to U.S. persons) – enough time for the government to obtain the proper authority under U.S. law. • Increases the statutory maximum prison sentence to 20 years for providing material support or resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization. • Enhances investigations of international proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. • Protects United States’ maritime activities from nuclear threats, weapons of mass destruction, and other threats by implementing the obligations of various treaties to which the United States is a party. • Provides strictly limited emergency authorities: Creates new procedures for the emergency use of Section 215 but requires the government to destroy the information it collects if a FISA court application is denied. Learn more about the USA Freedom Act by clicking here.
04.21.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), House Science, Space and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) today introduced a resolution pertaining to the international climate change negotiations. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “While negotiating an international climate change deal, it is important that we hold other countries accountable to the same degree we hold ourselves. The Obama Administration should not give China and India a free pass on emissions, nor should it support any agreement that negatively impacts the U.S. economy. This resolution also emphasizes that negotiators should address intellectual property rights in order to protect American technology that will lower greenhouse gas emissions.” Chairman Smith: “The president should not bypass Congress and try to negotiate a climate deal on his own that would cost American jobs. The president’s far-reaching proposals would do lasting damage to our nation, all for little to no environmental benefit. Even if fully implemented, the president’s international climate pledge is estimated to prevent only a 0.03° C temperature rise. But we will never reach the president’s arbitrary targets without Americans being subjected to increased electricity costs, energy rationing and reduced economic growth. The United States should not sign any climate deal that will make the government bigger and Americans poorer.” Chairman Ryan: “This is about fairness and holding other countries to the same standards we set for ourselves. We have to be environmentally conscientious when making policy decisions, but we also need to make sure we’re not hurting our economy by applying unnecessary pressures on families and small businesses. America shouldn’t support any agreement that doesn’t level the playing field and ensure other developed nations play by the same rules.”
04.16.2015	Today, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Nadler (D-NY), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Doug Collins (R-GA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), and Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY) introduced H.R. 1832, “The Innovation Protection Act.” The legislation would create a revolving fund that will allow the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) to retain all of the user-based fees paid by patent and trademark applicants and use the fees to support certain services. Specifically, the Innovation Protection Act would establish in the Treasury the United States Patent and Trademark Office Public Enterprise Fund to be used as a revolving fund by the Director of the USPTO without fiscal year limitation. The legislation requires to be credited to or deposited in the new Fund: (1) appropriations for defraying the costs of USPTO activities; (2) fees collected under federal patent and trademark laws; and (3) any unobligated balances remaining in the Patent and Trademark Office Appropriation Account and in the Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund. This replaces the Patent and Trademark Office Appropriation Account, eliminates the Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund, and provides a source of permanent funding for the USPTO. The fees the USPTO collects are to remain available to it until expended. The Public Enterprise Fund would cover: (1) ordinary and reasonable administrative, operating, and other expenses incurred by the Director for the continued operation of USPTO services, programs, activities, and duties relating to patents and trademarks; and (2) expenses incurred pursuant to obligations, representations, or other commitments of the USPTO. The legislation also requires the Director, on an annual basis, to: (1) report to Congress with operation and spending plans, including financial details and staff levels broken down by each major activity; (2) provide for an independent audit of USPTO financial statements; and (3) submit a budget to the President. RANKING MEMBER CONYERS (D-MI): “The current funding mechanism for the USPTO has failed the patent system by not preventing the diversion of nearly $150 million in collected user fees in fiscal year 2013 due to the sequester and the estimated $1 billion in fees diverted over the last two decades. In essence, there is a tax on innovation in this country, and this bill would repeal it. The permanent funding mechanism this bill creates is essential to encourage innovation and to ensure that our patent system remains the envy of the world.” REP. SENSENBRENNER (R-WI): “I have long supported efforts to allow USPTO to use their patent application fees to upgrade the agency’s operational effectiveness and reduce backlogs. This bipartisan bill would improve the operations of the U.S. Patent and Trade Office and prevent the government from using money collected to process patents and copyrights for other purposes.” REP. NADLER (D-NY): “Many of the challenges currently facing the patent system, especially the need to increase patent quality, could be solved if the USPTO had adequate funding. The Innovation Protection Act would help ensure that the USPTO has the resources it needs by ending fee diversion. I appreciate the leadership of Ranking Member Conyers on this important issue, and I am proud to join him on this legislation.” REP. FRANKS (R-AZ): “Fueling the engine of genius, industry, entrepreneurship, and innovation is a bipartisan issue. It is the role of Congress to protect this free-market economic engine. I am happy to support Mr. Conyers’ bill, The Innovation Protection Act, which protects inventors, and the current user-fee system, by placing those fees in a separate fund to prevent them from being raided for other purposes. As a patent holder myself, I firmly believe American inventors should get what they pay for - timely and thorough review of their patent applications.” REP. LOFGREN (D-CA): “The staff at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office helps protect true innovation and cracks down on bad patents that stifle invention and entrepreneurship. But when patent fees are endlessly siphoned away from the agency, the Patent Office can’t effectively examine the flood of applications they receive each year. That’s why this bill is so important – it permanently restores the fees paid by patent applicants to the PTO and helps move our innovation economy forward.” REP. COLLINS (R-GA): “The role that the Patent and Trademark Office plays in granting and arbitrating the patent rights enshrined in our Constitution cannot be understated. They are stewards of the building blocks of innovation and creativity. I’m pleased to join a bipartisan group of intellectual property leaders and bring a permanent end to fee diversion at the PTO. The fees that inventors pay to the PTO should go back to the office and be used to better serve America’s inventors. Promoting efficiency and quality at the PTO is the responsibility of Congress, and this legislation would go a long way to furthering those goals.” REP. DEUTCH (D-FL): “If we want a patent system capable of protecting innovators and enforcing higher standards, responding to claims quickly and reducing costly and cumbersome litigation, then what we need is a fully funded and fully functional U.S. Patent and Trademark office. The Innovation Protection Act represents a bipartisan and commonsense effort to begin meeting that need, and I look forward to working with U.S. Reps. John Conyers and Jim Sensenbrenner to advance this legislation in the 114th Congress.” REP. ROHRABACHER (R-CA): "The shifting of fees from their rightful place at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has been nothing short of a scandal, depriving inventors and those who invest in them of a timely and careful examination process. The backlog of patent applications effectively lessens the USA's competitive position in the world. This needs to be fixed. I am happy to co-sponsor this bipartisan effort, which aims to restore American pre-eminence in global innovation. Our creative geniuses have suffered from this bureaucratic dysfunction for too long. Passage of the Innovation Protection Act will signal that Congress is coming to their rescue." REP. JEFFRIES (D-NY): “The Innovation Protection Act is a good step in the right direction. It will provide much-needed funding and resources the USPTO needs as it continues to grow and provide world-class service to innovators and entrepreneurs across America. It is my hope that this common-sense, bipartisan measure will pass through this Congress and be signed into law as quickly as possible.” # # # Click HERE for bill text of H.R. 1832, the Innovation Protection Act of 2015.
04.16.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today reintroduced H.R. 1861, the Stop Motorcycle Checkpoint Funding Act. This bill would prohibit the Department of Transportation (DOT) from providing grants to a state or local entity to create motorcycle only checkpoints (MOCs) and ban DOT from manipulating states to enact helmet laws with federal money. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “This bill protects motorcyclists’ rights and promotes crash prevention. Motorcycle only checkpoints profile motorcyclists—using taxpayer money to corral them along the highway and check for infractions that do not cause crashes. Preventing accidents is the best use of taxpayer funds and the most effective way to save motorcyclists’ lives. I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation.”
04.14.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) issued the joint statement below regarding the Justice Department’s response to the House Judiciary Committee regarding misconduct at the Drug Enforcement Administration: “Although they are late to tackling this problem, we are pleased that officials at the Justice Department share the American people’s concern about instances of misconduct at the Drug Enforcement Administration and are taking steps to address this problem. The Justice Department’s response makes clear that the DEA’s Office of Professional Responsibility failed to fully investigate the employees who engaged in sex parties funded by drug cartels and as a result, other responsible parties failed to appropriately discipline those involved. In the future, Justice Department employees who purchase sex must be fired. We will not tolerate further episodes of ‘agents gone wild.’ “Tomorrow, several government officials will testify about misbehavior in federal law enforcement, including an official from the DEA’s Office of Professional Responsibility. We need to understand what broke down in the investigation and why DEA employees were not sufficiently held accountable for their actions. The American people deserve answers from their government about this atrocious behavior and demand change to ensure such lapses in judgment don’t happen again.” On Wednesday, April 15, 2015 at 2:00 p.m., the Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee will hold a hearing titled “Analyzing Misconduct in Federal Law Enforcement” to examine recent incidents involving misconduct by federal law enforcement agents – most notably at the United States Secret Service and Drug Enforcement Administration – and analyze the processes in place at the agencies for addressing allegations of misconduct. Witnesses for Wednesday’s hearing are: • The Honorable Michael E. Horowitz, Inspector General, Department of Justice • The Honorable John Roth, Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security • Mr. Herman E. “Chuck” Whaley, Deputy Chief Inspector, Office of Professional Responsibility, Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice • Mr. Mark Hughes, Chief Integrity Officer, United States Secret Service, Department of Homeland Security Wednesday’s hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally-credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214.
03.24.2015	Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Rick Larsen (D-Wash.) today reintroduced legislation to amend the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to establish a United States Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs. Currently, 20 government agencies are handling Arctic policy. Under this legislation, an Ambassador would be charged with all coordination and serve as Chair of the Arctic Council when the U.S. assumes Chairmanship of the Arctic Council in April. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “An ambassador-level position is necessary to show the U.S. is serious about being an Arctic nation. Russia continues to make claims and China is increasing its Arctic presence. The U.S. should coordinate its Arctic policy to protect our commercial interests and domestic energy supply at the highest level.” Congressman Larsen: “Our country faces a steep opportunity curve when it comes to the Arctic as we prepare to take over the chairmanship of the Arctic Council. We have a lot of work ahead of us, from protecting the unique Arctic environment and the people and animals who live there, to improving our emergency response ability when ships get into trouble. Coordinating the many federal stakeholders working on Arctic issues is imperative to our success as an Arctic nation. That is why I support an ambassador-level position to better manage our many interests in the Arctic and to signal our country’s commitment to international cooperation on Arctic policy.” The GAO reported last year that the U.S. needs a better strategy to coordinate and prioritize its policies related to the Arctic region.
03.20.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) made the following statement today following the resignation of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Director B. Todd Jones: “It is difficult to lead an agency that lacks a clear mission. The ATF is largely duplicative and beset by scandal and controversy, including its recent attempt to ban certain ammunition. The resignation of Director Jones is further proof that the ATF should be eliminated. The Justice Department will be more effective and efficient once the ATF is absorbed by other more capable agencies.”
03.19.2015	Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.) today reintroduced the Ensuring Access to Quality Complex Rehabilitation Technology Act, which would help ensure patients with disabilities or severe medical conditions have access to highly specialized medical equipment. The bill establishes a distinct Medicare benefit category for complex rehabilitation technology products (CRT), such as specialized power wheelchairs and adaptive seating systems. It would also allow the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to better target its payment and coverage policies by adopting higher quality standards for suppliers, improving oversight to prevent fraud and abuse and expanding eligibility criteria for beneficiaries. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As a leader in the fight for the rights of the disabled, I want to ensure all Americans have access to the tools needed to live each day to the fullest. Disabled Americans should not be denied rehabilitation or medical equipment that can enable them to live and work freely and independently. With increased flexibility and proper oversight, we can help those in need while inhibiting fraud and abuse.” Congressman Crowley: “Complex rehabilitation technology products can make a world of difference for people with severe disabilities and other medical conditions, and our legislation will remove barriers to getting these wheelchairs and other services to those who need them to lead a more independent life. I look forward to advancing this legislation that recognizes the importance of maintaining access to these products, as well as puts in place much-needed quality standards and consumer protections that strengthen the Medicare program for individuals, clinicians, and suppliers.” The Ensuring Access to Quality Complex Rehabilitation Technology Act is supported by multiple patient, medical professional and supplier organizations, including: American Association for Homecare, American Physical Therapy Association, Brain Injury Association of America, Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation, Easter Seals, National Association for Home Care & Hospice, National Coalition for Assistive and Rehab Technology, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and United Spinal Association.
03.19.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today sent the following letter to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding the Justice Department’s (DOJ) application of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and its potential impact on Wisconsin’s school voucher program, which the Congressman strongly supports: Dear Attorney General Holder: I am writing on a matter of great concern to me. On April 9, 2013, the Department of Justice (DOJ) wrote to direct the Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction (DPI) to develop new procedures to ensure the Milwaukee Parent Choice Program (MPCP) is in compliance with Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). In its letter, the DOJ said "[b]ecause the school choice program is a public program funded and administered by the State, the State’s administration of the program is subject to the requirements of Title II.” I agree that the State must abide by Title II regulations, but Congress clearly did not intend for private schools to be bound by Title II obligations. Congress devised a careful structure in the ADA, outlining five different areas in which persons with disabilities have legal rights and assigning unique requirements to each area. Title II of the ADA prohibits public entities from discriminating against individuals with disabilities. Title III of the ADA prohibits places of public accommodations, such as private schools, from discriminating against individuals with disabilities. In applying this, the DOJ’s own technical compliance manual states that “[p]ublic entities are not subject to title III of the ADA, which covers only private entities” and “[c]onversely, private entities are not subject to title II.” The key difference at issue is the standard set for compliance under Title II and Title III. The MPCP should have no effect on the careful balance Congress crafted. While the program is publically funded, the individual schools participating in MPCP are no more publically funded than a gas station accepting money from a SNAP recipient. Indeed, in 1990, in its analysis of the Milwaukee choice program, the Department of Education determined that federal disability laws do not apply to “placements in private schools resulting from parents’ decisions to participate in the Choice Program.” The effect of the argument in your April 9th letter would be to regulate private schools under Title II of the ADA. I have spent my career committed to helping those with disabilities, but Congress did not create differing compliance standards by happenstance. The intent of the law is plainly clear, and this fact has been repeated by the Department of Education and the courts on several occasions. I ask that DOJ remain mindful of this fact during its federal investigation of MPCP. I am worried about the incorrect application of Title II ADA standards and the effect this will have on the viability of private school voucher programs. Thank you for your attention to this matter.
03.18.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) today introduced the Judicial Redress Act of 2015, which: • Extends citizens of major U.S. allies the core benefits that Americans enjoy under the Privacy Act with regard to information shared with the United States for law enforcement purposes. • Serves as an important show of support for our allies and is critical to ensure continued sharing of information that is crucial to law enforcement efforts and to national security. • Has the support of the Department of Justice, federal law enforcement agencies and key European politicians. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The fight against terror spans the globe. Coordinating our efforts with friendly nations is vital to our national security and the security of our European allies. Extending certain rights to their citizens will also help foster a trusting and mutually beneficial relationship for American and European businesses. In short, this legislation will bolster our intelligence gathering capabilities and protect civil liberties at home and abroad.” Congressman Conyers: “For more than a decade, our allies in Europe have worked with federal law enforcement to ensure that our recordkeeping is both accurate and complete. In support of that vital relationship, this legislation offers our allies a limited set of privacy protections. This bill is a measure of basic fairness—our friends abroad should have some course of redress with respect to information that they provided to the U.S. government in the first place. The Obama Administration fully backs this proposal, and I look forward to its speedy passage.”
03.18.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Committee on Science, Space, and Technology Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Texas) today reintroduced the Public Access to Public Science (PAPS) Act. This legislation would ensure public access to published materials concerning scientific research and development activities funded by federal science agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the National Weather Service (NWS). An embargo period is included to help balance publishers’ needs with public access goals. PAPS builds on efforts by the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “It is past time to embrace a public access policy for scientific research. The federal government spends over $100 billion annually on research and development. This bill would ensure Americans have access to the results of their investment. Public access will help prevent duplicative research, foster innovation, increase scientific breakthroughs and keep America on the cutting edge of science and technology.” Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson: “I want to thank Mr. Sensenbrenner for his continued leadership on this issue. I am delighted to join him once again in introducing this legislation. Public access is an important topic across the scientific enterprise, and for budding scientists, start-up companies, garage inventors, and families everywhere. Increased access and increased use of technology to enable and promote discovery across the corpus of scientific literature will advance the frontiers of science, medicine, and innovation across all sectors of our economy. In 2009 and 2010, the Science, Space, and Technology Committee took a leadership role on public access, launching an open process that culminated in the 2013 OSTP guidance to all federal research agencies to develop public access plans. I am pleased that many agencies have since published such plans and I encourage those agencies who have not yet done so to accelerate their processes. In codifying OSTP’s balanced guidance with this legislation, we are institutionalizing the framework for public access while ensuring that stakeholders continue to have input as agencies implement and update their policies. But as with any introduced bill, this remains a work in progress. I look forward to continuing to work with Mr. Sensenbrenner and with all interested parties as we move forward.”
03.17.2015	On Thursday, March 19, 2015 at 10:00 a.m., the Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee will hold a hearing titled “Child Exploitation Restitution Following the Paroline v. United States Decision.” Under current law, federal courts are required to award any child depicted in sexually explicit material restitution in “the full amount of the victim’s losses” as determined by the court. These losses can include medical services, physical or occupational therapy, and attorneys’ fees, among several other losses. Unlike child pornography production cases, where there is a limited universe of defendants who are generally joined in the same prosecution, the harm to the victims in end-user child pornography trafficking cases is often caused by hundreds or thousands of unrelated individuals who are often prosecuted across time and in different jurisdictions. In recent years, there has been disagreement among the federal circuit courts over whether an end-user of child pornography—for example, a defendant who received, distributed, or possessed child pornography—must pay restitution and how to calculate the appropriate amount of restitution owed by an individual defendant. In response to the circuit split, the Supreme Court ruled in United States v. Paroline that an individual child pornography trafficking defendant may not be held liable for a victim’s aggregate damages incurred by potentially thousands of others who have viewed her images, and that defendants may be made liable only for the harm caused by their own conduct, not the conduct of others. At this week’s hearing, the Crime Subcommittee will examine the issues surrounding child exploitation restitution orders, the implications of the Paroline Supreme Court decision, and why only 15 out of the approximately 8,500 identified victims of child exploitation have sought restitution. Witnesses for Thursday’s hearing are: • Ms. Jill E. Steinberg, the National Coordinator for Child Exploitation Prevention and Interdiction, U.S. Department of Justice; • The Honorable Paul G. Cassell, Professor of Criminal Law, University of Utah College of Law; • Mr. Jonathan Turley, Professor, George Washington University Law School; and • Mr. Grier Weeks, Executive Director, National Association to Protect Children. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) issued the joint statement below on this hearing: “The trafficking of child pornography is a serious crime and those who cause the most vulnerable among us pain and suffering deserve to be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law. Although no amount of money can ever take away the trauma these children have experienced, Congress has intended to ensure that victims of child exploitation receive the full amount of their losses from the production and ongoing trafficking of their images. “Recently, the Supreme Court weighed in on child exploitation restitution and we look forward to having a discussion with experts this week on the constitutional questions surrounding this issue. Additionally, we need to examine why so few victims have sought restitution for the crimes committed against them and how Congress can address the barriers they face.” Thursday’s hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally-credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214.
02.26.2015	The Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations today held a hearing on “ISIL in America: Domestic Terror and Radicalization.” Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) gave the following opening statement: Today’s hearing will examine the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant or ISIL and the domestic terrorism threats posed by these terrorists. Although ISIL seems to have reared its head only in the last eighteen months, a closer look quickly reveals ISIL to be an old foe, one with whom the United States has done battle for more than a decade. Before the group declared itself a global caliphate and adopted its current name, it was merely The Islamic State of Iraq. During the Iraq War, members of this same group were among the most prolific perpetrators of attacks on American troops and our partners in Iraq. The procession of name changes, however, has made no difference in ISIL’s commitment to harm Americans. Earlier this month we were all reminded of this as we learned of Kayla Mueller’s [Mew-ller] death after eighteen months in ISIL captivity. The 26-year old from Prescott, Arizona, traveled to Syria with Doctors Without Borders to help alleviate the suffering wrought there by Islamic Extremism. Distance does not make us in the United States immune from ISIL’s destructive ideology. From far beyond the battlefields of Syria and Iraq comes funding and support for this group’s call to arms against the West. And the domestic threat is not limited to New York City or our nation’s capital. Two weeks ago in St. Louis, Missouri, five Bosnians were charged with providing material support to ISIL. The suspects allegedly provided weapons, military uniforms and equipment, and money to a sixth Bosnian who left the United States in 2013 to join ISIL in Syria. Alarmingly, all six individuals are natives of Bosnia who immigrated to the United States. Three are now naturalized citizens of the United States and the remaining three have either refugee or legal resident status. But the threats posed by ISIL’s hateful ideology are not purely external. Inciting Americans to join their ranks or ally themselves with ISIL’s mission is a pivotal component of their campaign of violence against America. Last month, a Cincinnati man named Christopher Lee Cornell was arrested at a gun shop purchasing multiple weapons he is alleged to have been collecting for an attack here in Washington, D.C. Mr. Cornell had become an adherent of radical Islam on the Internet. Having adopted the Jihadi worldview, he aimed to gun down members of Congress and government employees for the glory of ISIL, a terrorist group on the other side of the world with whom he had no connection except devotion to the same perverted Islamist ideology. As FBI Director Comey has pointed out, these are not isolated incidents. ISIL connections are being investigated in virtually every part of the United States. But on the heels of the St. Louis and Cincinnati arrests – and just days after ISIL released a video depicting the beheading of 21 Egyptian Christians in Libya – President Obama convened a summit on “Countering Violent Extremism.” A summit that failed to include FBI Director James Comey and refused to acknowledge that ISIL and other terrorist organizations are motivated by radical Islam. As one commentator noted, this summit was “strangely sympathetic to Islamist sensibilities and grievances at the very time when rampaging jihadists, while quoting Islamic scripture, are barbarically slaughtering their enemies and conducting a pogrom against Christians.” The President’s unwillingness to acknowledge the true motives of these terrorists only emboldens their campaign of terror and makes Americans less safe. Meanwhile, ISIL continues its march across western Iraq and continues to spew its propaganda of hatred and murder across the globe. Just yesterday, three New York City residents -- two from Uzbekistan and one from Kazakhstan – were arrested for plotting to travel to Syria to join ISIL and “wage jihad.” According to the criminal complaint, one of these men stated he would kill President Obama if he had the opportunity to do so. The witnesses joining us today will hopefully shed light on the escalating domestic terror threat posed by ISIL and those who would ally themselves with Islamic extremism.
02.12.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today reintroduced the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which provides for a robust response to the twin epidemics of opioid and heroin addiction that includes prevention, law enforcement strategies and the expansion of evidence-based treatment. CARA is the first piece of legislation introduced as part of Congressman Sensenbrenner’s over-criminalization package. Original cosponsors of CARA are Reps. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Bobby Scott (D-Va.), David Joyce (R-Ohio), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) and Steve Chabot (R-Ohio). Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “Too many Americans are falling into the addiction trap. It must be addressed effectively and expeditiously. With this legislation, we have an opportunity to build on proven methods that enable law enforcement to respond to this epidemic and support long-term recovery.” Congressman Tim Ryan: “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I understand the damage substance abuse inflicts upon the nation. In my state of Ohio, fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death since 2007. Heroin and opiate addiction is destroying lives, disrupting families and destabilizing communities – it is imperative that we begin to stem this tide. The provisions in this legislation are proven to work and I call on Congress to act now and pass this important legislation.” Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. CARA is supported by more than 90 organizations, including the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse Directors (NASADAD), Faces and Voices of Recovery, the National Council for Behavioral Health, and the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, among others.
02.11.2015	Today, House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) and House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) reintroduced the bipartisan Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015. The legislation aims to uphold the most vital principles of the historic law, which was first enacted 50 years ago. Reps. Conyers and Sensenbrenner reintroduced the legislation in response to the Supreme Court’s Shelby County v. Holder decision which struck down Section 4b, the core provision in the Voting Rights Act that determines how states are covered under Section 5 of the Act (which requires federal preclearance of voting changes by covered jurisdictions to protect against discriminatory voting measures). The bill updates the coverage formula by making all states and jurisdictions eligible for coverage formula based on voting violations in the last 15 years. “The Voting Rights Act was designed to eliminate evolving legal barriers to the voting booth and to give minority voters an equal opportunity to elect candidates of their choice. The Supreme Court’s decision to invalidate the Section 4b formula for coverage under Section 5 is a critical blow to its future relevancy and will make it more difficult to challenge existing barriers” said Rep. Conyers, a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus who cosponsored the original Voting Rights Act in 1965. “I have witnessed firsthand the stain that discrimination has placed on our democracy. Though the Shelby County v. Holder decision struck at the heart of the Act, today, it is with much pride that my colleagues and I are reintroducing a renewed Voting Rights Amendment Act to reaffirm our constitutional commitment to protecting the right to vote.” “The VRA is one of the most important pieces of civil rights legislation ever passed. Combating both discrimination and fraud is essential to ensuring Americans’ right to vote is protected. Our legitimacy as elected officials relies on the integrity of the ballot box. I urge my colleagues to support the VRAA because it is vital to our commitment to never again allow racial prejudices in the electoral process,” said Rep. Sensenbrenner. President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law in August of 1965, and it has been reauthorized four times since. President George W. Bush signed the most recent reauthorization into law in 2006, after the House voted 390-33 and the Senate 98-0 in favor of the legislation. An outline of the legislation can be found here, and text of legislation can be found here. Key provisions in the bill include: • Through a coverage provision based on current conditions, the bill establishes a rolling nationwide trigger that covers states or jurisdictions that have a persistent record of recent voting rights violations over the last 15 years. • Allows our federal courts to bail-in the worst actors for preclearance. The current law permits states or jurisdictions to be bailed in for intentional violations, but the new legislation amends the Act to allow states or jurisdictions to be bailed in for results-based violations. • Greater transparency in elections so that voters are made aware of changes. The additional sunlight will deter discrimination from occurring and protect voters from discrimination. • Allows for preliminary relief to be obtained more readily, given that voting rights cannot often be vindicated after an election is already over. Additional original co-sponsors of the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2015 include: Reps. Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Charles Dent (R-PA), Jim Clyburn (D-SC), Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), John Lewis (D-GA), Christopher Gibson (R-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee ( D-TX), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Hank Johnson (D -GA), Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR), Judy Chu (D-CA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Karen Bass (D-CA), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), and Scott Peters (D-CA).
02.11.2015	The Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations today held a hearing on “Civil Asset Forfeiture.” Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) provided the following opening statement: It’s hard to believe this can happen in America. The government is seizing billions of dollars of cash and property from Americans often without charging them with a crime. With origins in medieval law, civil asset forfeiture is premised on the legal fiction that inanimate objects bear moral culpability when used for wrongdoing. The practice regained prominence as a weapon in the modern drug war as law enforcement sought to disrupt criminal organizations by seizing the cash that sustains them. The practice, however, has proven a far greater affront to civil rights than it has a weapon against crime. While forfeitures have received increased attention in recent months, they are still poorly understood. During her recent confirmation hearing, Loretta Lynch, President Obama’s nominee to replace Eric Holder as Attorney General, testified that civil asset forfeiture is “done pursuant to supervision by a court, it is done pursuant to a court order, and I believe the protections are there.” As a United States Attorney, Lynch was known for her aggressive use of forfeiture provisions. She was, however, wrong when she testified that forfeiture is “done pursuant to supervision by a court,” and wrong again when she said it was “done pursuant to a court order.” One wonders if she would still believe the protections were “there” if she properly understood how they worked. After property is seized, its owner will usually have the option of challenging the seizure judicially, with the federal court system, or administratively, with the seizing agency itself. Seizures that are not challenged within 30 days of receiving notice are automatically forfeited. A majority of federal civil forfeitures are never contested, largely because of the high cost of retaining counsel, which often exceeds the value of the property itself. Because of the expense and complexity of the federal court system and the short timeframe, most owners who contest forfeitures do so administratively. Thus, contrary to Ms. Lynch’s testimony, only a small percentage of federal civil forfeitures have any involvement or supervision of a court or judge. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today about whether these administrative processes provide property owners with sufficient protections. Better-documented has been the Justice Department’s use of adoption, which occurs when a federal agency adopts a seizure from state or local law enforcement and proceeds with federal forfeiture. Under the equitable sharing program, DOJ returns up to 80 percent of forfeited money to the state agencies. Federal adoption allows police to ignore restrictions in state law by working with the federal government. A 2011 study found that police were in fact more likely to rely on federal equitable sharing in states where the law made forfeitures more difficult or less rewarding. This presents a profound federalism problem and opens law enforcement agencies to allegations that they are policing for profit. After 5 O’clock last night—at the last minute before today's hearing—DOJ sent new guidance on the revised adoption policies it issued last month. I look forward to learning more about the impact of these revised adoption guidelines. Just last month we learned that the DEA, through their cold consent searches, may have improperly searched citizens’ belongings at transportation hubs throughout the country. During these searches, DEA seized cash based merely on the suspicion that a large quantity of cash was indicative of illegal activity. To make matters worse, according to the DOJ Inspector General, DEA did not always provide adequate information to those who had their cash seized. At times, people did not even know which agency had seized their money, making contesting the seizure extremely difficult. Our Founders understood the virtues of limited government. The right to own property is enshrined in the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution: “[No person shall] be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. . .” Current forfeiture provisions mock the spirit and meaning of that passage and create serious issues under several other Constitutional provisions. It’s no wonder my former colleague Henry Hyde described civil asset forfeiture as an “unrelenting government assault on property rights, fueled by a dangerous and emotional vigilante mentality that sanctions shredding the U.S. Constitution into meaningless confetti.” Hyde led an effort that culminated in passage of the Civil Asset Forfeiture Reform Act, known as CAFRA. It was a noble effort, but it plainly fell short. In advancing CAFRA, Hyde noted that in 1993 DOJ forfeited $556 million. Post-CAFRA, in 2012, DOJ seized $4 billion dollars. Forfeitures only defenders seem to be its beneficiaries—law enforcement agencies entitled to keep the proceeds of their seizures—a conflict of interest so stark it takes us to another age. Adequate forfeiture reform is long overdue. To be clear, the failure is not on law enforcement, who risk their lives to enforce the laws we write. Congress has failed to craft adequate laws, and DOJ has failed to implement sufficient policies. The failure is ours, and I hope DOJ will work with us to fix it. As a former-chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, I am fully aware of how broken our criminal justice system is. I spent the last year leading a task force on over-criminalization. Our jails are over-crowded, our criminal code is convoluted and federal regulations are outdated and cumbersome. William Blackstone wrote, “[H]owever convenient these may appear at first, (and doubtless all arbitrary powers, well executed, are the most convenient), yet let it be again remembered, that delays, and little inconveniences in the forms of justice, are the price all free nations must pay for their liberty in more substantial matters.” It is passed time to pass comprehensive legislation to reform forfeiture laws.
02.04.2015	Bipartisan lawmakers today reintroduced the Secure Data Act to protect Americans’ privacy and data security by prohibiting surveillance agencies from requiring or compelling surveillance “backdoors” in products and services. A similar amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act last year passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming 293-123 vote. This amendment was not included in the CRomnibus. U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R- Wis.), Thomas Massie (R- Ky.), and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), sponsors of the Secure Data Act of 2015, issued the following statement: “Congress has allowed the Administration’s surveillance authorities to go unchecked by failing to enact adequate reform. Last Congress, the Massie-Sensenbrenner-Lofgren amendment garnered support from an overwhelming bi-partisan majority in the House as a provision to the Defense Appropriations bill, but unfortunately, was not included in the CRomnibus. With threats to our homeland ever prevalent, we should not tie the hands of the intelligence community. But unwarranted, backdoor surveillance is indefensible. The Secure Data Act is an important step in rebuilding public trust in our intelligence agencies and striking the appropriate balance between national security and civil liberty.” It has been widely reported that US intelligence and law enforcement agencies have requested or required individuals and organizations build a “backdoor” into their product or service to assist in unwarranted electronic surveillance. However, on more than one occurrence, major security flaws have been found in these “backdoors” that put the data security of every person and business using the internet at risk. For example, a software testing firm found serious backdoor vulnerabilities in wiretapping software for law enforcement made by Israeli software firm NICE Systems in 2013 that allowed hackers to completely compromise their system and listen to intercepted phone calls. If a backdoor is created for law enforcement and intelligence surveillance, past experience has shown it’s only a matter of time before hackers exploit it too. These "backdoors" can also be detrimental to American jobs. Other countries buy less American hardware and software and favor their domestic suppliers in order to avoid compromised American products. The Secure Data Act fixes this by prohibiting any agency from requesting or compelling backdoors in services and products to assist with electronic surveillance.
01.29.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent the following letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen in response to complaints from a large number of constituents struggling to file their taxes as a result of shortcomings by the IRS. Dear Commissioner Koskinen: I am writing about an important matter that has been brought to my attention by taxpayers in the 5th District. Recently, I have heard from my constituents that are having difficulties upholding their civic duty to pay their federal taxes. The problem they have identified stems from an apparent recent Internal Revenue Service (IRS) policy change to no longer supply hard copies of IRS forms and instructions in a reasonable way. If a taxpayer does not have internet access, and therefore will file a paper return, the taxpayer must call a toll free number to request that the form(s) be sent via US Postal Service; or, must visit a local library to access the IRS website, download and print the form (numbers of print copies of tax products IRS previously sent to libraries and post offices have been dramatically reduced); or hire a tax professional to file their return. In addition to great inconvenience, these options are costly to taxpayers. In fact, IRS Publication 17, Your Federal Income Tax, the booklet containing instructions important to many taxpayers as they prepare their returns, is not available in print from the IRS. Instead, it must be ordered through the Government Printing Office for a cost of $23.00. To make matters worse, many who have tried to order forms through the IRS form hotline cannot get through, nor can they reach anyone on the general tax advice hotline. This severely hinders them from receiving important tax law advice to ensure their returns comport with IRS issued rules and current tax law. I am inquiring as to what steps are being taken to remedy this problem and ensure all taxpayers are given a fair chance to fully understand the law. In its mission statement, the IRS acknowledges that it exists to “provide America’s taxpayers top quality service by helping them understand and meet their tax responsibilities and enforce the law with integrity and fairness to all.” At this point, it appears the IRS is falling woefully short of its own stated objectives. To say the least, these reports are concerning and raise questions about whether the IRS is taking this situation seriously or playing politics with budget cuts. While I realize that many federal agencies, including the IRS, have experienced reduced funding levels, we owe it to taxpayers to assist them in fulfilling their obligation to file their taxes correctly on time.
01.20.2015	Congressman F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-Menomonee Falls) announced today that sixteen students from Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District have received nominations to the US Service Academies. “I continue to be impressed with the caliber of area students who apply through my office for a service academy nomination,” Sensenbrenner said. “These young men and women have established strong records as leaders in their communities in addition to excelling academically and athletically. I congratulate all of the nominees and wish them the best of luck on all their future endeavors.” Nominees for the United States Service Academies were chosen from an impressive group of qualified applicants residing throughout Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District. The Congressman’s Academy Selection Committee put forth its recommendations for nomination after reviewing each individual candidate and conducting in-person interviews. Of the sixteen students, three have been named principal nominees. If a principal nominee meets the academic, physical, and medical standards set by the academy, they are assured an offer of appointment to the academy. If a principal nominee does not qualify or chooses not to attend, the alternates compete for the vacancy. Alternates are also part of a pool of applicants from which the academies will select the incoming class. Principal Nominees: Andrew Kitzhaber of Watertown has been named a principal nominee to attend the US Military Academy in West Point, NY. Andrew, son of Peter and Michelle Kitzhaber, is a senior at Watertown High School. Julia Miller of Waukesha has been named a principal nominee to attend the US Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. She has also been nominated to attend the US Military Academy in West Point, NY; the US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO; and the Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Julia, daughter of Brent and Elizabeth Miller, is a senior at Brookfield Academy. Avery Preston of Hartland has been named a principal nominee to attend the US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Avery, daughter of Eric and Michelle Preston, is a senior at Arrowhead High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Jefferson County: James Nachtigal of Fort Atkinson has been nominated to attend the US Military Academy in West Point, NY. James, son of Terry and Julie Nachtigal, is currently attending the United States Military Academy Preparatory School in West Point, NY. Michael Resnick of Cambridge has been nominated to attend the US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Michael, son of Gary and Jennifer Resnick, is a senior at Cambridge High School. Competing Alternate Nominee from Milwaukee County: Colton Gingrass of Wauwatosa has been nominated to attend the US Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, as well as the US Military Academy in West Point, NY. Colton, son of Charles and Kimberly Gingrass, is a senior at Marquette University High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Washington County: Curtis Peters of Hartford has been nominated to attend the US Military Academy in West Point, NY as well as the US Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Curtis, son of Jason and Erin Peters, is a senior at Hartford Union High School. McKenzie Rosenthal of Kewaskum has been nominated to attend the US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. McKenzie, daughter of Scott and Cammie Rosenthal, is a senior at Kewaskum High School. Competing Alternate Nominees from Waukesha County: Maria Carter of Oconomowoc has been nominated to attend the US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Maria, daughter of Paul and Angelique Carter, is currently attending the Greystone Preparatory School at Schreiner University in Kerrville, TX. Naomi Dawood of Brookfield has been nominated to attend the US Military Academy in West Point, NY; the US Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD; the US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO; and the US Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Naomi, daughter of Mohammed and Karryn Dawood, is a senior at Brookfield Central High School. Daniel Lee of Brookfield has been nominated to attend the US Military Academy in West Point, NY, as well as the US Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Daniel, son of Ernie and Robyn Lee, is a senior at Brookfield Central High School. Emily Lowerr of Brookfield has been nominated to attend the US Military Academy in West Point, NY; the US Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD; the US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO; and the US Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Emily, daughter of Briane and Renee Lowerr, is a senior at Brookfield Central High School. Christian McMiller of Waukesha has been nominated to attend the US Military Academy in West Point, NY, as well as the US Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Christian, son of James and Roberta McMiller, is a senior at Arrowhead High School. Nicholas Patnode of Oconomowoc has been nominated to attend the US Military Academy in West Point, NY, as well as the US Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. Nicholas, son of Donald and Ann Marie Patnode, is a senior at Kettle Moraine High School. Benjamin Peterson of Brookfield has been nominated to attend the US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Benjamin, son of Dean and Lori Peterson, is a senior at Brookfield Central High School. Lukas Texeira of Waukesha has been nominated to attend the US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Lukas, son of David and Lisa Texeira, is a senior at Waukesha West High School. Congressman Sensenbrenner is currently accepting nomination applications from Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District for those who would like to enter any United States Service Academy in the summer of 2016. Inquiries concerning this process can be made to the Congressman’s District Office in Brookfield at (262) 784-1111, or online at www.sensenbrenner.house.gov.
01.20.2015	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) tonight gave the below statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The White House warned that President Obama was going to give a ‘defiant’ speech, and that’s what he did. In November, the American people spoke loud and clear, in what was nothing short of a land-slide election. But instead of attempting to reach across the aisle and work with Republicans, the President dug in his heels—laying the groundwork for a Do-Nothing White House. This is a real shame.”
01.09.2015	Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and John Conyers (D-Mich.) and Senators Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Mike Lee (R-Utah) today sent the following letter to Attorney General Holder regarding civil asset forfeiture, specifically “adoptive seizures” and “equitable sharing.” Dear Attorney General Holder: We are members of a bicameral, bipartisan group of lawmakers who share a strong interest in civil asset forfeiture reform. We believe that in many circumstances, civil asset forfeiture is a valuable tool in combating serious wrongdoing. However, we have concerns that the government is not using the process fairly and instead is infringing on the rights of small business owners and motorists, some of whom are our constituents. One area that we find particularly problematic involves “adoptive seizures” and “equitable sharing.” Under this arrangement, state and local law enforcement agencies bring property seized under state law to a federal seizing agency for federal forfeiture and then can receive up to 80% of the proceeds of the resulting forfeiture. We are concerned that these seizures might circumvent state forfeiture law restrictions, create improper incentives on the part of state and local law enforcement, and unnecessarily burden our federal authorities. In a recent meeting with representatives of the Department of Justice, we were told that the Department is in the midst of an internal, top-to-bottom review of its entire asset forfeiture program. As part of this review, we encourage you to consider discontinuing “adoptive seizures” and “equitable sharing.” Nothing in the statutes governing forfeiture requires that you engage in equitable sharing. For instance, 21 U.S.C. § 881(e)(1)(A) provides that “[w]henever property is civilly or criminally forfeited under this subchapter the Attorney General may … transfer the property … to any State or local law enforcement agency which participated directly in the seizure or forfeiture of the property” (emphasis supplied). Similarly, under 18 U.S.C. § 981(e)(2), “the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Postal Service, as the case may be, is authorized to retain property forfeited pursuant to this section, or to transfer such property on such terms and conditions as he may determine to … any State or local law enforcement agency which participated directly in any of the acts which led to the seizure or forfeiture of the property” (emphasis supplied). Since the Reagan Administration issued “Guidelines on Seized Forfeited Property” as part of the United States Attorneys Manual in 1985, the Department of Justice has issued guidelines governing these practices. See also U.S. Department of Justice, “Guide to Equitable Sharing for State and Local Law Enforcement Agencies” (2009). We also recommend that you implement additional procedural safeguards to make sure the property of innocent Americans is not being swept up in overzealous asset forfeiture.
12.10.2014	With increasing numbers of Americans falling victim to drug addiction and overdoses from heroin and opiates, U.S. Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Bobby Scott (D-Va.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Karen Bass (D-Calif.), David Joyce (R-Ohio) and Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) today introduced bipartisan legislation that could help turn the tide in the struggle against this epidemic. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2014 would provide a series of incentives and resources designed to encourage states and local communities to advance a continuum of proven strategies to combat addiction. Among other things, the bill would expand prevention and education efforts to prevent the abuse of opioids and heroin and promote treatment and recovery. It would also strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs to help states monitor and track prescription drug diversion. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Too many Wisconsinites are falling into the addiction trap. With a 350 percent increase in collected heroin samples reported by the State Crime Laboratory and growing alarm within Wisconsin’s law enforcement community, this is a very real problem that we cannot ignore. It must be addressed effectively and expeditiously. With this legislation, we have an opportunity to build on proven methods that enable law enforcement to respond to this epidemic and support long-term recovery by connecting prevention and education efforts with treatment programs.” Congressman Scott: “I am deeply concerned with the growth of heroin and prescription painkiller addiction across the nation. Something must be done at the federal level to address this issue and I believe the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act is the answer. This legislation would look at the problem from all angles – from prevention efforts to overdose medication and recovery – in order to stem this epidemic which is taking the lives of 114 people per day.” This bill is the companion to the Senate’s Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, S. 2839, introduced in September 2014 by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Pat Leahy (D-Vt.). The legislation is supported by 93 organizations, including the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse Directors (NASADAD), Faces and Voices of Recovery, the National Council for Behavioral Health, and the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, among others.
12.10.2014	A group of bipartisan lawmakers introduced H.R. 5800, the Secure Data Act of 2014, to protect Americans’ privacy and data security by prohibiting surveillance agencies from requiring or compelling surveillance “backdoors” in products and services. A similar amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act this year passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming 293-123 vote, but it was not included in the Continuing Resolution (CR)/omnibus spending legislation. U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R- Wis.), Thomas Massie (R- Ky.), and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), sponsors of the Secure Data Act of 2014, issued the following statement: “Thus far, Congress has failed to rein in the Administration’s surveillance authorities and protect Americans’ civil liberties. Nevertheless, the Massie-Sensenbrenner-Lofgren amendment established an important record in the full House of Representatives—an overwhelming majority will no longer tolerate the status quo. Unwarranted and backdoor surveillance is untenable, and as Congress turns to address a multitude of expiring surveillance programs in the 114th Congress, the House will not allow unwarranted surveillance without meaningful reform. The Secure Data Act defends Americans’ constitutional rights and is an important next step in closing backdoor surveillance and rebuilding public trust in our intelligence agencies.” Original cosponsors of the Secure Data Act of 2014 include Reps. Justin Amash (R-Mich.), John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), Rush Holt (D- N.J.), Jerrold Nadler (D- N.Y.), Beto O’Rourke (D- Texas), Ted Poe (R- Texas).
12.03.2014	The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 647, the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, by a vote of 404-17. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) cosponsored and voted in favor of the measure. This bill allows individuals with disabilities to create a new tax-preferred account for short and long-term expenses. Congressman Sensenbrenner: "As a steadfast advocate for the disabled, my wife Cheryl has long-fought to ensure all Americans with disabilities can lead normal and fulfilling lives. Disabled herself, her resolve inspired me to do everything in my power to help others with disabilities. “The ABLE Act will expand opportunities for disabled individuals by enabling them to pursue higher education and gainful employment. It will empower them to be self-sufficient and reach their full potential. Cheryl has never let her disability hold her back, and with the passage of this bill, many others with disabilities will be able to do the same. “I was proud to support this important legislation and urge the Senate to pass it expeditiously.”
11.17.2014	Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the bipartisan USA FREEDOM Act in October, 2013. The House of Representatives passed an amended bill by a vote of 303-121. In July, Chairman Leahy introduced a revised USA FREEDOM Act that reclaimed lost provisions from the original bill and strengthened privacy protections. Last week, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) filed for cloture on the measure. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The USA FREEDOM Act has been heavily negotiated since Chairman Leahy and I introduced it over a year ago. The bipartisan bill before the Senate has my full support and has been endorsed by an eclectic coalition, ranging from tech giants and privacy advocates to the Administration and Intelligence Community. There is no excuse not to pass this critical legislation during the lame duck. We have gone to great lengths to ensure our civil liberties are protected without compromising our national security. As the primary author of the Patriot Act, I know the importance of our intelligence gathering authorities, but the law must be used as Congress intended. It’s time to get this done and restore Americans’ trust in their government.”
11.12.2014	Members of the House Judiciary Committee, Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Howard Coble (R-N.C.), Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.) and Dave Joyce (R-Ohio), today sent the following letter to Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) requesting a mark-up of H.R. 3465, the Second Chance Reauthorization Act: Dear Chairman Goodlatte: We write to respectfully request that the House Judiciary Committee schedule a mark-up of the Second Chance Reauthorization Act (H.R. 3465). As you know, the Over-Criminalization Task Force’s hearings have revealed several problems facing the criminal justice system. While many of these issues are complex and require novel legislative reforms that may be impracticable to introduce and move this session, the Judiciary Committee can and should use the remaining days left in session to ensure that initiatives with proven outcomes, like Second Chance, continue to protect public safety. Since the Second Chance Act was signed into law by President Bush in 2008, over 90,000 men, women, and youth returning home from prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities have benefited from Second Chance grants providing career training, mentoring, family-based substance abuse treatment, and other evidence-based reentry programs. This investment has paid off in public safety dividends. The enclosed reports from the National Reentry Resource Center highlight how numerous states have experienced drastic reductions in statewide recidivism rates as a result of robust reentry services made possible in part through Second Chance. The outcomes are impressive, but state and local governments as well as non-profit organizations are in dire need of resources in order to ensure that the millions of individuals returning from prison, jail, and juvenile facilities each year continue to receive coordinated evidence-based reentry services. As you know, we have made several improvements to the legislation. Underutilized or redundant programs have been cut, additional accountability measures have been added for grantees, the authorization level has been reduced from $160 million to $100 million per year, and the types of grants available to community and faith-based non-profits have been expanded. As a result, we have garnered significant bipartisan support in the House and Senate, and as evidenced in the enclosed letter, nearly 482 law enforcement, faith-based and other community organizations from across the country have endorsed the bill. Our constituents understand that successful reentry means safer communities and are eager for Congress to take action to reauthorize this critical program. Thank you for your leadership on this Committee and for your commitment to protect public safety through recidivism reduction programs. We look forward to working with you to advance this vital legislation.
11.12.2014	Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the bipartisan USA FREEDOM Act in October, 2013. Last May, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence approved an amended version of the legislation unanimously. The House of Representatives then passed a further amended bill by a vote of 303-121. In July, Chairman Leahy introduced a revised USA FREEDOM Act that reclaimed lost provisions from the original bill and strengthened privacy protections. It is endorsed by the Intelligence Community, the Administration and numerous technology companies and privacy groups. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid tonight filed for cloture on the measure. A vote is possible as early as next week. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Although far too many good bills continue to collect dust on Senator Reid’s desk, I am pleased he has finally decided to move the USA FREEDOM Act. There is no excuse not to pass this fundamental piece of legislation during the lame duck. Once the Senate acts, I encourage my colleagues in the House and the President to be prepared to promptly enact it into law. Senator Leahy and I introduced the USA FREEDOM Act over a year ago. It is past time for Washington to ensure Americans’ civil liberties are protected while preserving important intelligence gathering authorities that are vital to our national security.”
10.31.2014	U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Ron Kind (D-Wis.), leaders of the Congressional effort to award Lt. Alonzo Cushing with a posthumous Medal of Honor, will attend a White House ceremony on November 6 to pay tribute to this Wisconsin-born Civil War hero. Lt. Cushing played a key role in securing a victory for the Union in the Battle of Gettysburg. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Before going off to fight, Lt. Cushing reportedly told a cousin that, while he knew he was unlikely to return, he would make a name for himself in the war. One-hundred and fifty-one years after he stared down General Pickett’s charge, I am thrilled to join Lt. Cushing’s family and esteemed guests at the White House to honor the sacrifice that secured his place in history. This award culminates tireless efforts by constituents who recognized Lt. Cushing’s bravery and more than two decades of bipartisan work in Congress.” Congressman Kind: “It’s been a long and challenging journey to get Lt. Cushing the recognition he deserves, but as I always say, it’s never too late to do the right thing for our war heroes. It will be a tremendous honor to join with the President, military leaders, and some of Lt. Cushing’s descendants to witness this occasion 151 years after Lt. Cushing bravely gave his life at the Battle of Gettysburg.” A native of Delafield, WI, Alonzo Cushing’s actions on the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg helped turn the tide during Pickett’s Charge. Three days into the battle on July 3, 1863, Cushing and the 110 men under his command received the full force of Confederate artillery and Pickett’s Charge of 13,000 infantry. Over the course of just a few hours, all of his officers had been killed and Cushing himself was badly injured. Continuing to fight, he sustained two more wounds before succumbing to his wounds on the field of battle. The legislation passed by Congress made it possible to waive the requirement that recommendations for the Medal of Honor be made within two years of the heroic action, and awarded within three years. Lt. Cushing’s medal can now be awarded, having received the recommendation of the Department of Defense and the approval of the President. Earlier this year, Reps. Sensenbrenner and Kind sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel requesting his prompt attention to Lt. Cushing’s record.
10.24.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today continued his oversight of civil asset forfeiture, sending the below letter to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding federal adoption. On October 16, Congressman Sensenbrenner sent oversight letters to the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and the Acting Director of the Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency requesting information on each agency’s participation in the Department of Justice’s asset forfeiture program, specifically their processes for administrative review of property seizures. Dear Attorney General Holder: Federal adoption occurs when a federal agency adopts a seizure from a state or local law enforcement agency and proceeds with federal forfeiture. Numerous Department of Justice (DOJ or Department) entities are authorized to adopt state and local seizures. Under the Department’s Equitable Sharing Program, DOJ will share up to 80 percent of forfeited funds with the seizing agency. Federal adoptions have grown exponentially in recent years. From 2001 to 2013, state and local law enforcement made nearly 62,000 cash seizures without a warrant or criminal indictment through the Equitable Sharing Program. State and local authorities have received over $1.7 billion from these seizures while federal agencies have kept $800 million. The Equitable Sharing Program is frequently criticized because it allows state and local police to ignore restrictions on civil asset forfeiture in their home states. In some cases, it gives them a direct financial incentive to do so. A 2011 study published in the Journal of Criminal Justice found that local and state police are in fact more likely to rely on the federal Equitable Sharing Program if they work in a state where civil forfeiture is more difficult or less rewarding. The disturbing conclusion is that local agency’s rely on the Equitable Sharing Program to circumvent state law. The implications on civil liberties are dire. The right to own property is a fundamental right implicitly recognized in the Fourth, Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. I also believe that it is a human right. Daniel Webster warned that “[g]ood intentions will be pleaded for every assumption of power.” With federal adoption, the federal government gives DOJ’s imprimatur to state cases and then shares proceeds of the forfeiture with the very law enforcement agency that seized the property. The conflict of interest for these state and local agencies is so stark, over a right so critical, that it screams for protections and redundancies of protections against abuse. It is therefore critical that the Department maintain clear standards regarding how its entities weigh and ultimately adopt state and local cases. To help further understanding of the Department’s policies regarding federal adoption, please respond to the following questions by November 14, 2014. • Please describe the federal adoption process from the time a state applies for adoption through a final decision. • What percentage of state requests are ultimately adopted? What is the breakdown of adoptions among the Department’s law enforcement entities? • To apply for federal adoption, a state or local agency must fill out Form Dag-71. The form requires an “immediate probable cause review” if certain specified conditions are not met. What does this review involve? Is the review always conducted prior to adoption when the specified conditions are not met? • Seizures must be based on probable cause. What evidence does the Department require to ensure that the standard of proof has been met prior to adopting a seizure? • Does a federal adoption represent a DOJ determination that there was probable cause to support the state or local seizure? • What officials are authorized to approve a request for adoption? With your response, please provide 25 samples of closed DEA and ATF case files. Please ensure that the files contain all the documents originally contained therein. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important issue.
10.16.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today sent oversight letters to the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and to the Acting Director of the Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency, requesting information on each agency’s participation in the Department of Justice’s asset forfeiture program, specifically their processes for administrative review of property seizures. The letters request answers to the following questions: • How many petitions does the DEA/ICE receive for the administrative pardon of property? • How many petitions for the administrative pardon of property are granted? • How many petitions does the DEA/ICE receive from individuals (as oppose to business or financial institutions) for the administrative pardon of property? • How many of the petitions from individuals are granted? • Please describe the methodology and procedures used by DEA/ICE to adjudicate civil forfeitures. • Allowing attorneys for DEA/ICE to adjudicate the conduct of its own agents to determine whether money should flow directly to the coffers of DEA/ICE would seem to present inherent conflicts of interests. DEA/ICE leadership will have an interest in seeing the petitions denied because it increases their budget. Meanwhile, agents will see denials as a condemnation of their conduct in the field. Given these inherent conflicts, what procedures and protections exist to ensure fair adjudications of the claims and to protect against conflicts of interests?
10.16.2014	In November, 2013 Congressman Sensenbrenner, along with 11 of his House colleagues including Congressmen Duffy, Petri and Ribble, sent a letter to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) encouraging it to focus on critical issues like disease outbreaks. The CDC had recently launched a campaign to pressure states to adopt motorcycle helmet laws. The CDC has also spent money to study seatbelt use, bike lanes and farmer’s markets. In response, the CDC equated motorcycle safety with its other priorities, writing, “CDC approaches motorcycle safety in the same manner as other public health issues, such as heart disease, cancer, and asthma.” Congressman Sensenbrenner: “In times of crisis, we see how the cost of mission creep and government expansion can be measured in lives as well as money. Last year, I urged the CDC to focus on its core priorities instead of ancillary issues like seatbelt use, motorcycle safety, bike lanes and farmer’s markets. “The CDC has just now released protocols for healthcare workers to minimize the risk of infection from communicable diseases. This should have been done years ago—before two healthcare workers were infected with Ebola. It is past time for the CDC to prioritize its mission and spending.”
10.06.2014	Congressman F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-Menomonee Falls) reminds those who are interested in attending the United States Naval, Military, Air Force, or Merchant Marine Academies that his nomination application deadline is October 15, 2014. Eligible individuals must be legal U.S. citizens; live within Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District; and be at least 17 years old, but not past their 23rd birthday as of July 1, 2015. Once the deadline has passed, a member of the Congressman’s Academy Selection Committee will interview the applicant, and make nomination recommendations to the Congressman based on the applicant’s ability to meet the academic and physical standards set by the Academies. “I will accept applications for a nomination to the U.S. Service Academies through close of business on Wednesday, October 15, 2014. Late or incomplete applications will not be accepted,” said Sensenbrenner. “I encourage students to contact the Academies they are interested in to open a candidate file, and then follow up with my office in Brookfield to make me aware of their interest in a nomination.” Information about the nomination process can be obtained by contacting Congressman Sensenbrenner’s District Office at 120 Bishops Way, Room 154, Brookfield, WI 53005, or by phone at (262) 784-1111.
09.17.2014	The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation’s leading small business association, today named U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-5) a Guardian of Small Business for his outstanding voting record on behalf of America’s small-business owners in the 113th Congress. NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Rep. Sensenbrenner for “standing up for small business.” In presenting the group’s coveted Guardian of Small Business Award, Danner said, “Small-business owners are very politically active – paying close attention to how their lawmakers vote on key business issues and stand by those who stand for them.” “The record shows that Rep. Sensenbrenner is a true champion of small business, supporting the votes that matter in the 113th Congress,” said Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.” NFIB’s “How Congress Voted,” which serves as a report card for members of Congress, was also unveiled this week. The report presents key small-business votes and voting percentages for each lawmaker. Those voting favorably on key small-business issues at least 70 percent of the time during the 113th Congress are eligible for the Guardian award. In all, NFIB will present Guardian awards to 232 Representatives who stood up for small business.
09.17.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today introduced the ATF Elimination Act, which would dissolve the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and merge its exclusive duties into existing federal agencies. The legislation also calls for an immediate hiring freeze at the ATF and requires the Department of Justice (DOJ) to (1) eliminate and reduce duplicative functions and waste to the maximum extent possible, and (2) report to Congress with a detailed plan on how the transition will take place. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Washington should be responsible stewards of the American taxpayers’ money. While all too often that is not the case, this is a good government bill to streamline agency activity at DOJ—increasing effectiveness while decreasing cost. The ATF is a largely duplicative, scandal ridden agency that lacks a clear mission. It is plagued by backlogs, funding gaps, hiring challenges and a lack of leadership. For decades it has been branded by high profile failures. There is also significant overlap with other agencies. At a time when we are approaching $18 trillion in debt, waste and redundancy within our federal agencies must be addressed. Without a doubt, we can fulfill the role of the ATF more efficiently.” The ATF Elimination Act would transfer enforcement of firearms, explosives and arson laws to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The illegal diversion of alcohol and tobacco products would be transferred to the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA). No later than 180 days after enactment, the DEA and FBI must submit to the Congress a plan for winding up the affairs of the ATF. Field offices and other buildings/assets of the ATF will be transferred to the FBI and it will have one year to report excess property to the General Services Administration (GSA).
09.15.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent the following letter to Senators Reid and McConnell today, urging them to move the USA FREEDOM Act: Dear Senators Reid and McConnell, As you know, Senator Leahy and I introduced the USA FREEDOM Act to reform the National Security Agency and strengthen Congressional oversight of the intelligence community. These reforms are a necessary response to NSA overreach and the unnecessary intrusion into the lives of innocent Americans. While Senator Leahy and I both hold sacred the personal liberties afforded by the Constitution, neither of us are naïve to the threats we face as a nation. In my view, drafting and negotiating the FREEDOM Act has been less about balancing freedom and security than about recognizing that neither freedom nor security should be compromised. The FREEDOM Act is a legislative solution that recognizes this truth. That we succeeded is evident from the bill’s supporters. The FREEDOM Act is backed by liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans. More importantly, it has the support of both the intelligence community and the country’s staunchest privacy advocates. In a letter to Senator Leahy, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and Attorney General Eric Holder wrote, “the Intelligence Community believes that [the FREEDOM Act] preserves essential Intelligence Community capabilities; and the Department of Justice and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence support your bill and believe that it is a reasonable compromise that enhances privacy and civil liberties and increases transparency.” Senator Leahy’s most recent draft, which I fully endorse, has the support of the American Civil Liberties Union, the Center for Democracy and Technology, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Google, Microsoft, Facebook, and countless other privacy advocates and technology companies. This coming together of the intelligence community and privacy advocates is historic. It would be a critical mistake not to take advantage of this coalition. Without Congressional action, Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act will sunset next June. Many privacy advocates believe they will have increased leverage next year as the sunset approaches. Some of their proposed reforms, however, are redlines for the Administration. As a result, there is no guarantee that the coalition we built can be rebuilt. The cost could be losing privacy protections, improved transparency, and important intelligence gathering tools. The House has already passed the USA FREEDOM Act. I urge the Senate to follow suit. It is past time to secure the Constitutional rights of American citizens and restore the country’s faith in its intelligence community.
09.11.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) had the following response to President Barack Obama’s speech on ISIS: “It is now abundantly clear that ISIS is far more than part of a JV-level threat. It is a highly-structured and well-funded terrorist network that threatens everything we value. President Obama’s weak-kneed response has allowed ISIS to wreak havoc across the Middle East, rapidly expanding across the region. I agree that we must carefully consider our available options, but as the world’s super power equipped with the strongest military in the world, we cannot lead from behind. The world is watching. “The longer we take to destroy ISIS, the more America and its allies are at risk. Iraqi security forces and Syrian opposition are incapable of neutralizing this threat. A Joint Session of Congress is necessary so we can have a vigorous debate on how to ensure ISIS is annihilated. Not only must we address the danger it poses in the Middle East, but also vulnerabilities at home. ISIS is well-armed with sophisticated weapons—much more so than Al Qaeda 13 years ago. Unless President Obama changes course, our porous borders provide ISIS the opportunity to infiltrate our country. I was glad to see the President finally commit to defeating ISIS, but I am afraid his plan doesn’t go far enough. We must do everything in our power to protect Americans.”
09.09.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Menomonee Falls) announced today that he is currently accepting applications from individuals who are interested in a nomination to attend the United States Air Force, Military, Naval or Merchant Marine Academies in the summer of 2015. Applications can be accepted from those who are United States citizens with residency in Wisconsin’s Fifth Congressional District; at least 17 years old, but not past their 23rd birthday as of July 1, 2015; and have reached their senior year of high school. Upon receiving a completed application, candidates will be interviewed by a member of the Congressman’s Academy Selection Committee, comprised of community leaders from around the area. The interview will be a full assessment of the candidate’s leadership potential, character, motivation and interests. Based on the recommendations of his committee, the Congressman will then make his nominations to the Academies. The deadline for completed applications is Wednesday, October 15, 2014. Late or incomplete applications will not be considered. “As a Member of Congress, I have the privilege and honor of nominating to our service academies outstanding young men and women from the Fifth Congressional District,” said Sensenbrenner. “I encourage anyone interested in pursuing a nomination to contact my Brookfield office to request an application.” Congressman Sensenbrenner’s District Office is located at 120 Bishops Way, Room 154, Brookfield, WI 53005 and can be reached by phone at (262) 784-1111. Academy nomination information is available on the Congressman’s website at Sensenbrenner.house.gov.
08.27.2014	President Barack Obama has announced that he will act on legislation authored by U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-Wis.) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) to posthumously award Lieutenant Alonzo Cushing with the Medal of Honor. Lt. Cushing, a Wisconsin-born Civil War hero, played a key role in securing a victory for the Union in the Battle of Gettysburg. Congressman Kind: “Even after more than 150 years, it’s never too late to do the right thing for our war heroes. Lt. Cushing richly deserves his Medal of Honor, and as a Wisconsinite and an American I feel honored to have helped lead the effort in Congress to make this happen.” Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I am pleased that First Lieutenant Alonzo Cushing will finally receive our nation’s highest military honor. Awarding the Medal of Honor to Lt. Cushing, a native of Delafield, Wisconsin, culminates more than two decades of bipartisan work and is long overdue. Lt. Cushing was a courageous leader who at just 22 years of age, gave his life to protect our sovereign nation at the Battle of Gettysburg. His exceptional bravery and determination on the battlefield should serve as an inspiration to us all.” A native of Delafield, WI, Alonzo Cushing’s actions on the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg helped turn the tide during Pickett’s Charge. Three days into the battle on July 3, 1863, Cushing and the 110 men under his command received the full force of Confederate artillery and Pickett’s Charge of 13,000 infantry. Over the course of just a few hours, all of his officers had been killed and Cushing himself was badly injured. Continuing to fight, he sustained two more wounds before succumbing to his wounds on the field of battle. The legislation passed by Congress made it possible to waive the requirement that recommendations for the Medal of Honor be made within two years of the heroic action, and awarded within three years. Lt. Cushing’s medal can now be awarded, having received the recommendation of the Department of Defense and the approval of the President. Earlier this year, Reps. Kind and Sensenbrenner sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel requesting his prompt attention to Lt. Cushing’s record.
07.31.2014	During the House Science, Space and Technology Committee hearing Wednesday titled, “EPA’s Carbon Plan: Failure by Design,” the committee examined the implementation of technology-based standards under Section 111 of the Clean Air Act. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.): “In his ideological pursuit of climate change reform, President Obama has chosen to disregard the facts. A Democrat-controlled Congress rejected “Cap-and-Tax” in 2009 because it would be bad for jobs. Nevertheless, this administration continues to pursue a radical climate change agenda that would have a crushing impact on the economy, especially in coal dependent states like Wisconsin. The EPA rule is yet another example of the White House bypassing Congress to exert its will on the American people.” Charles McConnell, the Executive Director of the Energy and Environment Initiative at Rice University, said in his testimony, “It’s certainly not impactful environmental regulation,” and was “developed for political leverage in a global climate discussion.” McConnell added, “It impacts a fully developed .18 percent of the global CO2 that’s emitted in the world, less than two-tenths of a percent. It will impact global warming and climate change by .01 degrees centigrade. And that, if you do the mathematics in climate change technology, would affect the level of sea-rise by about one-third the thickness of this dime that I am holding.” The proposed rule is 645 pages and in an effort to be “flexible,” the EPA has created a convoluted “building-block” structure that will require the states to comply with certain benchmarks. The concern is that this will inevitably lead to a cap-and-tax plan, at least regionally, since the states have such a short amount of time to compose their own carbon reduction plans. Further, power companies are unsure of how the rules will affect them. They are dependent on state plans, which have to be constructed in a very short time period. The EPA’s own analysis of its rules projects an electricity price increase of 6-7 percent in 2020 and annual compliance costs between $5.4 and $7.4 billion in 2020 and $8.8 billion in 2030. Since 2001, energy costs for middle and lower-income families have increased by 27 percent, while their incomes have declined by 22 percent. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, CO2 emissions from U.S. power plants represent only 4 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. Between 2011 and 2030, non-U.S. power sector carbon emissions are projected to increase by 4,692 million tons—offsetting the reductions coming from EPA’s rule more than eight times over. Because of its growing economy, China emits about 45 percent more CO2 in one month than EPA’s proposal will reduce in an entire year. Like under a cap-and-tax proposal, states that rely more heavily on coal will be more negatively affected. Since some state’s energy needs are more coal dependent, to be in compliance with the building blocks, these states would find themselves at a bigger disadvantage than those states with other energy sources. No state could achieve these goals through technological or operating improvements at coal fired power plants. Instead, any state plan would inevitably require wholesale changes to how the state’s utilities provide electricity to the public (i.e. more wind, solar, etc.). The initial high level annual cost estimates for the state of Wisconsin to implement the four building blocks included in EPA’s greenhouse gas proposal are about $175-$350 million in 2020—increasing to about $300-600 million by 2030. President Obama is ignoring real world issues and exaggerating the benefits of the rule in an effort to meet the demands of a climate change ideology.
07.30.2014	Crime Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced H.R. 5253, the UAC State Authority Act. The legislation would add language to the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 to ensure that the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) notify a governor prior to the transfer of unaccompanied alien children (UAC) to their state. This bill would also provide for a 10-day period during which the governor of the state may submit to the Secretary an objection to the proposed transfer, giving governors a right-of-refusal. It expressly gives states the power to decide whether the federal government can establish housing facilities for UACs within their borders. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “While I recognize the severity and sensitivity of this crisis, we must secure the border and make a clear statement to those seeking citizenship in the United States: Illegal activity will not be rewarded. The administration should be transparent about its intentions. States should be fully informed of HHS’s plans to house UACs within their communities, and governors should have the ability to prevent the federal government from establishing housing facilities in their state.” June 19: Sensenbrenner Sends Letter to HHS Secretary Burwell on the Surge of UACs July 10: Sensenbrenner Sends Letter to Obama on the Surge of UACs July 16: President Barack Obama created the border crisis July 22: Sensenbrenner Sends Follow-Up Letter to HHS Secretary on the Surge of UACs and Its Impact on Wisconsin Note: Still awaiting a response from HHS Secretary Burwell. Congressman Mike Turner (R-Ohio) is an original cosponsor of the UAC State Authority Act. Congressman Turner: “The ability of the federal government to hand-pick a city, county, or state as a UAC receiver site without first consulting the governor’s office disregards the real impact these decisions have on regional communities and significantly diminishes states’ rights. Governors must be the decision makers because the increased burden of housing these illegal immigrants ultimately falls to the states and extends across multiple agencies, communities, and jurisdictions."
07.29.2014	Last October, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the USA FREEDOM Act. On May 7, the House Judiciary Committee unanimously passed an amended USA FREEDOM Act. The following day, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence approved that legislation by voice vote. On May 22, the House of Representatives passed a further amended USA FREEDOM Act by a vote of 303-121. Chairman Leahy introduced today a USA FREEDOM Act that reclaims lost provisions from the original bill and strengthens privacy protections. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “In May, after months of negotiations, the House passed an amended USA FREEDOM Act with broad bipartisan support. The primary challenge was to draft legislation that protects Americans’ civil liberties without undermining core functions of law enforcement and intelligence collection. Today, Chairman Leahy introduced a compromise that strengthens the privacy protections of the House bill while retaining support from the Administration and intel community. By reclaiming important provisions stripped from our original bill, tech giants and privacy advocates have reestablished their support. I hope the Senate works expeditiously to pass the USA FREEDOM Act and eagerly await the President signing it into law.”
07.22.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell on June 19 asking how the administration plans to handle the surge of children who have illegally entered the United States and its cost to American taxpayers. On July 10, he sent a letter to President Obama to express further concerns regarding unaccompanied alien children. Today, Congressman Sensenbrenner sent a follow-up letter to Secretary Burwell requesting a prompt response to his previous questions and to seek answers about conflicting reports in Wisconsin: Dear Secretary Burwell: I am writing to follow-up on my June 19 letter regarding unaccompanied alien children. My letter asked eight specific questions about the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) plans to house and care for these children. I write today to not only request a response to my initial letter, but to seek answers about conflicting news reports in my home state of Wisconsin. According to these reports, HHS, through its grantees, is currently seeking space in the Milwaukee area to house potentially hundreds of children who have illegally crossed our southern border from Central America through Mexico. To date, I am not aware of your agency relaying this information to any of Wisconsin’s elected representatives. The federal government, and more specifically HHS, should be transparent about its intentions. The agency should fully inform Members of Congress, along with state and local leaders, of its intentions to house these children in facilities within their communities. Therefore, I ask you to reply with answers to the following questions. • Can you state conclusively that HHS, or other federal agencies, is not considering locations in Wisconsin? • If not, what locations are currently being considered? • Will Members of Congress be notified as soon as a decision has been made? I respectfully ask that you respond to these questions, along with the questions in my June 19 letter, before you continue any efforts to relocate unaccompanied alien children, or any other illegal immigrants to Wisconsin. A timely and complete response would be greatly appreciated.
07.17.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent the following letter to President Barack Obama urging him to authorize an international investigation to determine who shot down a Malaysian Airlines Boeing 777 passenger plane over Ukraine earlier today: Dear Mr. President: Media outlets are reporting that a Malaysian Airlines civilian aircraft was shot down, potentially by a Russian missile system, while flying at roughly 35 thousand feet over Ukraine. These reports claim that, tragically, all 295 passengers lost their lives, including 23 Americans. While we should not jump to conclusions, I urge you to authorize an international investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on the downing of this plane. American lives have been lost, and the United States has an obligation to ensure whoever is responsible for this cowardly act is held accountable. An FBI investigation, as part of an international investigation, will be the most effective and credible way to learn the truth. Thank you for your attention to this matter.
07.10.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent the following letter to President Barack Obama regarding the surge of unaccompanied alien children (UACs) who have illegally entered the United States: Dear President Obama: As our country continues to experience an unprecedented surge of unaccompanied alien children (UACs) crossing our southwestern border, I write to express deep concern with your recent request for $3.7 billion in emergency spending. Under your emergency supplemental request, almost half— $1.8 billion—will be used for shelter and other services for UACs here in the U.S., rather than expediting deportation proceedings and ensuring that UACs are safely reunited with family members in their home countries. While additional funding may prove to be necessary– your request is simply not a plausible, long-term solution towards ending this crisis. Any permanent fix must include stronger border security measures and a reexamination of your Administration’s policies that have no doubt contributed to this dire situation. During the past six years, your Administration has bypassed Congress and implemented policies that have encouraged foreign nationals to break the law, enter our country illegally, and strain communities across our nation. You recently stated that “our future rests” on the success of people brought to the United States illegally as children, who would qualify for citizenship if Congress passes the DREAM Act. But the flood of UACs crossing our borders with the understanding that they will receive leniency from the United States has contributed greatly to this humanitarian crisis. And it is of growing concern that it is a financial crisis as well. Instead of working unilaterally to address this mounting issue, I encourage you to coordinate efforts between your Administration, Congress, and state and local officials to determine how to return UACs to their native countries in a humane way at a minimum expense to American taxpayers. In several instances, not working with local officials has proven problematic, resulting in protests, the rerouting of illegals, and an increasing financial burden. I also encourage you to consider sending the National Guard to free up Border Patrol agents so that they can once again focus on their primary mission— securing our border. While we may disagree on how to best address immigration reform, we will exacerbate this problem if we don’t stand up and enforce immigration laws already in place. I urge you to end policies that encourage young individuals to put their lives at risk to illegally enter this country. I further ask that you work with Congress—Republicans and Democrats— to end this unsustainable course.
07.03.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) had the following response to the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB) report on the intelligence community's Section 702 operations: “The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board’s recent report appears to be an adequate overview of the background and privacy concerns related to Section 702 of FISA. It raises justifiable concerns regarding the scope of U.S. person information collected and the use of queries using U.S. person identifiers. “Section 702 doesn’t authorize the collection of wholly domestic U.S. communications, and the Fourth Amendment would typically require a warrant to listen to or read such material. The government needs to do more to limit the incidental collection of this content and should not be allowed to query the data without a court order. The Fourth Amendment concerns are particularly acute because the NSA does not even know the scope of its incidental collection. “The original USA FREEDOM Act addressed this problem, but the language to end backdoor searches was stripped prior to passage. Fortunately, the House recently approved an amendment by Representatives Lofgren, Massie and me to the DOD Appropriations bill to reclaim the lost provision. I urge the Senate to end the unconstitutional collection of Americans’ communications under Section 702 as it considers reforms to the administration’s surveillance authorities. I believe the Fourth Amendment means what it says and there should be no shortcuts around it.”
06.20.2014	The House of Representatives voted late last night to shut backdoors used to access Americans’ private electronic data by a vote of 293-123. The amendment to H.R. 4870, the Fiscal Year 2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Act, prohibits the search of government databases for information pertaining to U.S. citizens without a warrant and excludes the National Security Agency (NSA) and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) from requiring the placement of surveillance “backdoors” in products. It was sponsored by U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R- Wis.) Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and Thomas Massie (R-Ky.). “Our amendment to H.R. 4870 further defends the constitutional rights we voted to protect when we passed the USA FREEDOM Act and reclaims an important provision stripped from the original bill,” said Sensenbrenner. “Both are positive, but not final, steps in our efforts to reform the administration’s surveillance authorities and protect Americans’ civil liberties. This amendment clearly states that the Fourth Amendment means what it says and there should be no shortcuts around it. I am pleased it passed the House with strong bipartisan support and I thank Representatives Lofgren and Massie for working with me on this important issue.” “This was the first definitive vote Congress has held on the 4th amendment and the NSA, and last night the House stood up for the American people and the Constitution – that is something we can all celebrate,” said Lofgren. “This amendment is a worthwhile step forward and will make a meaningful difference, but our work is not done. I trust that our colleagues in the Senate will take note of this overwhelming support for the Constitution as they take the next step in this debate.” "Americans are sick of being spied on,” said Massie. “The current state of American surveillance meets neither the expectations of our constituents nor the standards required by our Constitution. Our government searches vast amounts of data—including the content of emails and telephone calls—without individualized suspicion or probable cause. I am encouraged by this bipartisan effort to shut surveillance backdoors and ensure that Americans' privacy rights are protected." The amendment was supported by a broad coalition of privacy and civil liberties groups as well as tech companies, including, among others, New America Foundation’s Open Technology Group, the American Civil Liberties Union, FreedomWorks, Campaign for Liberty, the Liberty Coalition, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Google, Demand Progress, and the Center for Democracy and Technology. Other cosponsors include: Conyers (D-Mich.), Poe (R-Texas), Gabbard (D-Hawaii), Jordan (R-Ohio), O'Rourke (D-Texas), Amash (R-Mich.), Holt (D-N.J.), Nadler (D-N.Y.), Petri (R-Wis.), DelBene (D- Wash.), Farenthold (R-Texas), Butterfield (N. Car.) and Sanford (S. Car.). The House of Representatives passed H.R. 4870, the Fiscal Year 2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Act, today by a vote of 340-73.
06.19.2014	A new bipartisan effort to close intelligence agency backdoors and curb government access to private electronic data gained momentum today as the House prepares to debate an amendment sponsored by U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Thomas Massie (R-Ky.) and a bipartisan group of lawmakers. The amendment, offered to the Fiscal Year 2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 4870), would cut off funding to two government “backdoors” that currently allow intelligence agencies access to Americans’ private data and correspondence. “There’s no question Americans have become increasingly alarmed with the breadth of unwarranted government surveillance programs used to store and search their private data,” said Sensenbrenner, Lofgren, and Massie. “By adopting this amendment, Congress can take a sure step toward shutting the back door on mass surveillance. This amendment will reinstate an important provision that was stripped from the original USA FREEDOM Act to further protect the constitutional rights of American citizens. Congress has an ongoing obligation to conduct oversight of the intelligence community and its surveillance authorities.” One “backdoor” would be shut by prohibiting the search of government databases for information pertaining to US citizens without a warrant. A second would be shut to prohibit the NSA and CIA from requiring the placement of “backdoors” in products. The amendment is supported by a broad coalition of privacy and civil liberties groups as well as tech companies, including, among others, the American Civil Liberties Union, the Liberty Coalition, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Google, Demand Progress, and the Center for Democracy and Technology. A full list of cosponsors of the amendment is as follows: Reps. Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Lofgren (D-Calif.), Massie (R-Ky.), Conyers (D-Mich.), Poe (R-Texas), Gabbard (D-Hawaii), Jordan (R-Ohio), O'Rourke (D-Texas), Amash (R-Mich.), Holt (D-N.J.), Nadler (D-N.Y.) and Petri (R-Wis.).
06.19.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent the following letter to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell regarding how the administration plans to handle the surge of unaccompanied alien children (UACs) who have illegally entered the United States and its cost to American taxpayers: Dear Secretary Burwell: Two years ago, President Obama announced his Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy, halting deportation proceedings for certain young immigrants who illegally enter the country. As with grants of amnesty in the past, the President’s executive action produced a predictable surge in children risking their lives to cross the border. Just recently, the President stated that “our future rests” on the success of people brought to the United States illegally as children, who would qualify for citizenship if Congress passes the DREAM Act. Your agency has documented the policy’s disastrous effects. In its most recent budget proposal, HHS predicted that the U.S. would capture 60,000 unaccompanied alien children (UACs) illegally entering the United States in 2014. This is an 815 percent increase from the 6,560 illegal minors caught crossing the U.S. border in 2011. In 2015, the administration estimates that the number will increase to 145,000. Recent reports indicate that 4,500 unaccompanied alien children arrived just in the month of April. More recently, border patrol agents were overwhelmed by approximately 1,200 children crossing the border in a single night. Under the Homeland Security Act, the federal government transfers custody of illegal immigrant children to the Department of Health and Human Service’s Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR). The office is charged with providing temporary housing, while ultimately trying to reunite the children with a family member or legal guardian already here in the U.S. (regardless of their legal status) while the child goes through removal proceedings. HHS recently announced a $350 million grant opportunity to provide shelter for UACs, with funding to be directed to approximately 60 locations. According to press reports, as many as 500 UACs were to start arriving this week at St. Paul’s College, a recently-closed college in Lawrenceville, Virginia. However, HHS’ plans were stymied, at least temporarily, after town and county officials objected to the short notice and complete lack of community input. I am deeply concerned with HHS’ lack of transparency and preparation and are requesting answers to the following questions: • Where is HHS currently housing UACs and for how long? • What other sites/locations are currently planned? Have any leases been signed? • How many immigrants do you plan to accommodate? • What do you anticipate to be the final cost of housing UACs to taxpayers? • HHS is providing various ‘family planning’ services. What exactly are these services and what are the costs? • Is HHS prepared to house the influx of immigrants inspired by the President’s immigration policies? • What plans does HHS have to inform federal, state and local leaders of UAC housing locations? This humanitarian crisis is deeply unsettling, and is likely to get worse unless federal agencies’ capabilities and resources are coordinated effectively to address this issue. I look forward to your response to these questions and an explanation of how HHS is ensuring the well-being of these unaccompanied children. Given the urgent nature of this matter, please respond no later than July 3, 2014.
06.04.2014	On Tuesday, the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste released the 2013 Congressional Rankings for the first session of the 113th Congress. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) responded to his “Taxpayer Hero” score of 96 percent, the fifth highest in the entire House of Representatives: Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “This ranking is a reflection of my tireless commitment to fiscal responsibility and responsible government. We can’t expect to grow our economy and create opportunity for future generations unless we address the out-of-control spending that ultimately drives our debt. I will continue to advance policy solutions that grow our economy and set our nation on a sustainable fiscal course.”
05.29.2014	The House Science, Space and Technology Committee yesterday approved an important bipartisan provision offered by Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) for speedier public access to basic scientific research that would have had lengthy delays imposed under H.R. 4186, the Frontiers in Innovation, Research, Science, and Technology (FIRST) Act. In a mark-up vote by the committee, lawmakers chose to adopt the Sensenbrenner-Lofgren provision reducing the embargo period on accessing federally funded peer-reviewed research to twelve months, in line with the industry standard, instead of the FIRST Act’s proposed and arbitrary two-to-three year embargo period. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “This amendment is a strong compromise between competing interests. While not the wish list of either the publishers or the open access community, it meets the ultimate goal of providing taxpayer access to federally-funded research. It benefits all Americans when their tax dollars are used to craft life changing ideas rather than to fund articles with tax dollars only to have them sit behind pay walls. The American taxpayer has paid for this research and deserves access to its results.” Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren: “While the FIRST Act still needs improvement, I am happy my colleagues agree on the principle that the public should have more open access to taxpayer-funded research. It’s not in the public’s interest to put up barriers to taxpayer-supported basic scientific research because it lays the groundwork for future discoveries. Greater public access accelerates the kind of robust collaboration that can turn this research into the building blocks for breakthroughs that have immense benefits for the public and our economy.” The Sensenbrenner-Lofgren amendment writes into law a process proposed by the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) after extensive input from stakeholders—including the publishing industry—for agencies engaged in scientific research like the National Science Foundation (NSF) to institute a twelve-month embargo on peer-reviewed research. The amendment also offers flexibility by providing an additional six-month extension if stakeholders can demonstrate the public interest would be substantially or uniquely harmed by a one-year embargo.
05.22.2014	The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act, by a vote of 303-121, which was introduced by Crime Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.). Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “I was Chairman of the Judiciary Committee when we passed the PATRIOT Act, which made our country safer while maintaining the civil liberties that differentiate us from our enemies. But the government abused the law and upset the delicate balance between privacy and security. Today, after months of negotiations, the House publicly and unequivocally rejected the notion of bulk collection by passing the USA FREEDOM Act. While I wish it more closely resembled the bill I originally introduced, the legislation passed today is a step forward in our efforts to reform the government’s surveillance authorities. It bans bulk collection, includes important privacy provisions and sends a clear message to the NSA: We are watching you. I hope the Senate works expeditiously and eagerly await looking over the President’s shoulder as he signs the USA FREEDOM Act into law.” View Congressman Sensenbrenner’s prepared floor remarks here. View video here.
05.08.2014	Yesterday, the House Judiciary Committee passed H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act, by a vote of 32-0, which was introduced by Crime Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.). Today, the House Intelligence Committee passed the bill unanimously by voice vote. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “The House Judiciary and Intelligence Committees passed the USA FREEDOM Act, which presents a clear path forward for the House and Senate. Compromises made with the Intelligence Committee are consistent with our original goals to rein in the NSA and strike the proper balance between civil liberties and national security. I look forward to seeing the USA FREEDOM Act quickly enacted into law.”
05.07.2014	The House Judiciary Committee today passed H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act, which Crime Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced last October. A substitute amendment was offered by Congressman Sensenbrenner on behalf of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-Va.), Congressmen Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) and Randy Forbes (R-Va.), which was accepted by the Committee. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Today, the Judiciary Committee came together to address one of the most pressing issues facing our nation. The Committee voted unanimously to rein in the NSA, end bulk collection and ensure Americans’ civil liberties are protected, while keeping intact the necessary tools to protect our national security. I thank my colleagues, privacy groups, legal experts, tech companies, allied governments and the American people for their input, and urge the House and Senate to promptly pass the USA FREEDOM Act.” View Opening Statement, Manager’s Amendment: here
04.30.2014	Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Rick Larsen (D-Wash.) introduced a bill today to amend the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to establish a United States Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs. Currently, 20 government agencies are handling Arctic policy. Under this legislation, an Ambassador would be charged with all coordination and serve as Chair of the Arctic Council when the U.S. assumes Chairmanship of the Arctic Council from 2015-2017. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “We need someone with ambassadorial rank to show that the U.S. is serious about being an Arctic nation. As Russia continues to act aggressively, including making claims in the Arctic, and as China states its own interest, the U.S. must coordinate its Arctic policy and protect its domestic energy supply at the highest level.” Congressman Larsen: “The Arctic is fast becoming the 21st century version of the Northwest Passage. An ambassador-level position takes an important step to coordinate U.S. commercial, environmental and security interests in the region. The position also signals our country’s commitment to international cooperation on Arctic policy.”
04.11.2014	It has been reported that the National Security Agency (NSA) has long been aware of the Heartbleed bug and exploited it to obtain information. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “The NSA’s purpose is to protect Americans. But if media reports are accurate, rather than fixing the Heartbleed bug, the NSA exploited it to gather information, leaving Americans vulnerable to cyber-attacks. Once again, the NSA proved blind to the interests of every day Americans in its single-minded pursuit of information. This calls into serious question what the intelligence community does behind its dark cloud of secrecy and is yet another example of how our privacy and data security have been cast aside in the name of national security.”
04.02.2014	Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) gives intelligence gathering agencies the ability to collect the communications of foreign persons without a warrant. The intelligence community has used back door searches to obtain Americans’ private communications. Section 301 of the USA FREEDOM Act would close this loophole. Section 301 of the USA FREEDOM Act: Clarification on prohibition on searching of collections of communications to conduct warrantless searches for the communications of United States persons. From Section-by-Section Analysis Under Section 702 of FISA, which was enacted as part of the FISA Amendments Act (FAA), the government can wiretap foreigners outside the United States without a court order. This section closes NSA’s “back door” access to Americans’ communications by requiring a court order under FISA before the government can search for the communications of Americans in data collected without individualized warrants under Section 702. It contains an emergency exception like those found elsewhere in FISA. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “Section 215 of the Patriot Act has been misinterpreted to justify bulk collection. Similarly, we now know Section 702 of FISA has been improperly used to obtain the content of Americans’ private communications without a warrant, which is unconstitutional under the Fourth Amendment and a blatant violation of Americans’ civil liberties. “The USA FREEDOM Act ends bulk collection, closes the loophole being exploited to access the communications of Americans and strikes the proper balance between privacy and security—the Intelligence Committee’s FISA Transparency and Modernization Act does not.”
04.02.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent the following letter to Attorney General Eric Holder requesting a response to a December 19, 2013 letter regarding Director of National Intelligence James Clapper’s false testimony. Dear Attorney General Holder, On December 19 of last year, I wrote, along with six of my colleagues, to request that you investigate Director of National Intelligence James Clapper for his “erroneous” testimony before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence last year. Nearly three-and-a-half months later, we have not received a response or an update on the status of your investigation. On March 12, 2013, Senator Ron Wyden asked Director Clapper, “Does the N.S.A. collect any type of data at all on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans?” Director Clapper answered “No, Sir.” Wyden pressed, “It does not?” Clapper replied, “There are cases where they could inadvertently perhaps collect, but not wittingly.” Now declassified documents reveal that Director Clapper’s testimony was false, and further, that he knew it was false when it was offered. Congress is currently considering proposals regarding intelligence reform. In considering these proposals, we need assurances that we can adequately conduct oversight following new legislation. Congressional oversight, however, depends on truthful testimony. Intelligence officials cannot be permitted to lie with impunity. I respectfully request an update as soon as possible.
03.24.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced the USA FREEDOM Act to restore trust in the intelligence community and ensure Americans’ civil liberties are protected, while maintaining the necessary tools to protect our national security. Tomorrow, members of the House Intelligence Committee plan to introduce the End Bulk Collection Act. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “Congress must pass a straightforward bill to address NSA overreach. The End Bulk Collection Act is a convoluted bill that accepts the administration’s deliberate misinterpretation of the law. It limits, but does not end, bulk collection. Provisions included in the draft fall well short of the safeguards in the USA FREEDOM Act and do not strike the proper balance between privacy and security. The End Bulk Collection Act will not have my support.”
03.13.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent the following letter to Deputy Attorney General James Cole requesting a response to a February 11 letter regarding spying on Members of Congress. Dear Deputy Attorney General Cole: On February 11, I sent a letter, cosigned by my colleagues, Congressmen Darrell Issa and Jerrold Nadler, asking you to clarify statements you made before the House Judiciary Committee. At the House Judiciary Committee hearing on February 4, Congressman Issa asked whether the National Security Agency (NSA) collected information on call records from Congressional offices. You responded, “We probably do, Mr. Congressman, but we’re not allowed to look at any of those, however, unless we have reasonable, articulable suspicion that those numbers are related to a known terrorist threat.” Our letter identified a situation when the NSA would collect information on call records from Congressional offices (and Americans more generally) even without any reasonable articulable suspicion at all. It has been over a month and my colleagues and I have not received a response. This issue is even more pressing given recent statements from Senate Intelligence Chairman Dianne Feinstein. In remarks on the Senate floor, Senator Feinstein accused the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) of ¬secretly searching computers and removing documents from computers used by committee staff members. According to press reports, the CIA’s acting general counsel also filed a criminal report with the Department of Justice concerning the committee staff’s actions. Even in the context of recent revelations, Senator Feinstein’s allegations are shocking. As you know, the CIA is legally barred from any domestic searches or surveillance. Additionally, tapping into computers used by members of Congress and attempts to use the Justice Department to intimidate Congressional staff is a gross violation of the Constitutional principles of separation of powers. It paints an almost-Nixonian picture of an Administration that believes it can act with impunity behind a veil of secrecy. I am therefore writing to expedite your response to our February 11 letter. I remind you that the inquiry in the letter was broader than Chairman Issa’s original inquiry and requested disclosure of all of the ways in which the government conducts, or may possibly conduct surveillance on Members of Congress. This would include the CIA’s invasion of the Senate Intelligence Committee’s computers as well as any unknown instances of monitoring, spying on, or otherwise conducting surveillance over Members of Congress and their staff. I request a response no later than March 28, 2014.
03.13.2014	House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.) announced his support for ending bulk collection of Americans’ phone data. Following Congressman Ruppersberger’s announcement, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent him a letter encouraging him to cosponsor the Leahy-Sensenbrenner USA FREEDOM Act, which would end bulk collection. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “Since last summer, calls to rein in the NSA have become deafening. In October, Senator Leahy and I introduced the USA FREEDOM Act to restore trust in the intelligence community and ensure Americans’ civil liberties are protected, while maintaining the necessary tools to protect our national security. Bulk collection has never been authorized by Congress and ongoing activities by the executive branch are a blatant misapplication of the law. “Ranking member Ruppersberger has joined the PCLOB, President Obama’s handpicked review panel, the American people and the more than 160 cosponsors of the USA FREEDOM Act in condemning bulk collection of Americans’ phone data. I urge him to cosponsor the USA FREEDOM Act. It strikes the proper balance between security and privacy, and I am confident it has the votes to pass.”
03.06.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent the following letter to President Obama requesting that he stop the Department of Commerce from leading a trade mission to Russia. Dear Mr. President: Current events in Ukraine demand immediate attention from the United States of America. In response to the crisis, you threatened that “there will be costs for any military intervention in Ukraine.” On March 3, 2014, however, the United States Department of Commerce International Trade Administration announced an Executive-led trade mission to Moscow and St. Petersburg from September 15-19, 2014. Your Administration stated that the purpose of the mission is to help U.S. travel and tourism firms sell services and find business partners in Russia. You have spoken of the need to hold Russia accountable and the Congress is currently drafting punitive sanctions. This government-led trade mission to Russia stands in direct conflict with Congress’s efforts and your Administration’s boycott of the G-8 Summit. We need actions as well as words. I respectfully request that you take immediate action to recall this announcement and stop the Department of Commerce from leading the trade mission. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter.
03.05.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) issued the following statement addressing current misconceptions of H.R. 3899, the Voting Rights Amendment Act (VRAA) of 2014. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “I was a strong supporter of the 1982 Voting Rights Act (VRA) reauthorization and led the most recent reauthorization in 2006 as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee. Both passed with broad bipartisan support and were signed into law by Presidents Reagan and Bush. As soon as the Court’s decision came down deeming Section 4, the coverage formula for Section 5, unconstitutional, I began working to fix it. And now, I’ve introduced legislation that would—the Voting Rights Amendment Act. “Section 2 of the VRA currently allows, and will continue to allow after this bill is passed, private citizens or the Department of Justice to bring actions to stop voter discrimination against any racial group, including white voters. “Section 5 preclearance coverage applies to all voting violations, regardless of whether the discrimination is directed at white or minority voters. The Voting Rights Amendment Act ensures states can only be covered if they commit five violations within the most recent 15 years. Political subdivisions within states can be covered if they commit three violations within that period or if they commit one violation and have had “persistent and extremely low minority turnout” over that period. All racial discrimination—whether directed at white or minority voters—counts equally as a violation under the Act. The only exception is that a political subdivision can be covered if it commits one voting violation and has “persistent and extremely low minority turnout.” The bill can easily be broadened in Committee to recognize “persistent and extremely low white turnout” as well, but was not included in the original draft because no one has ever flagged persistent suppression of majority voters as a problem. “The VRAA is nationwide in application. Any state will be covered if it commits five violations within the most recent 15 years. The bill also includes carve-outs for reasonable voter identification laws, because curtailing discrimination and fraud are entirely consistent goals.”
02.26.2014	On May 9, 2013, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) introduced H.R. 1944, the Private Property Rights Protection Act, which would prevent the federal government or any authority of the federal government from using economic development as a justification for exercising its power of eminent domain. This bill would also discourage states and localities from abusing their eminent domain power by denying states or localities that commit such abuse all federal economic development funds for a period of two years. Today, it passed in the House of Representatives 353-65. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “As part of “Stop Government Abuse Week,” I am pleased that the House once again voted to protect Americans’ private property rights and curtail the abuse of eminent domain. While most Americans oppose the taking of private property for private uses, in Kelo v. City of New London, the Supreme Court ruled that “economic development” can be a “public use” under the Fifth Amendment’s Takings Clause – giving the government the authority to transfer property from individuals with fewer resources to those with more. This disproportionately affects the poor, churches, religious institutions, non-profitorganizations and farmers. The Private Property Rights Protection Act would rightfully restore the rights the Supreme Court took away.” (Click image to view Congressman Sensenbrenner’s remarks on the House floor prior to passage of the bill.)
02.12.2014	Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) sent the following letter to Deputy Attorney General James Cole regarding his February 4 testimony at the House Judiciary Committee’s hearing, “Examining Recommendations to Reform FISA Authorities.” Dear Deputy Attorney General Cole, At the House Judiciary Committee hearing on February 4, Congressman Issa asked whether the National Security Agency (NSA) collected information on call records from Congressional offices. You responded, “We probably do, Mr. Congressman, but we’re not allowed to look at any of those, however, unless we have reasonable, articulable suspicion that those numbers are related to a known terrorist threat.” Executive Branch surveillance of the Congress is by itself troubling, but your statement was not entirely accurate, and we ask that you provide clarification for the record. As described in public and declassified materials, prior to the President’s announced changes to the program on January 17, the NSA’s collection process comprised four steps: (1) collection, (2) query, (3) analysis with up to 3 hops, and (4) retention. The agency began by collecting and storing data from certain service providers in the United States. The NSA would query that data when it determined unilaterally that there was a “reasonable, articulable suspicion” that the number was related to terrorism. The NSA would then compile a dataset of up to three “hops” from this first number. In other words, the agency gathered the records of (1) people in contact with the seed number; (2) people in contact with the people in contact with the seed number; and (3) people in contact with the people in contact with the people in contact with the seed number. Finally, after collecting and analyzing these call records, the NSA would transfer the results to the so-called “corporate store,” a separate database that analysts were permitted to search without any showing of particularized suspicion. In ruling that this bulk collection program was likely unconstitutional, Judge Leon of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia described just how many records may be implicated in a single search: Suppose, for instance, that there is a person living in New York City who has a phone number that meets the RAS standard and is approved as a “seed.” And suppose this person, who may or may not actually be associated with any terrorist organization, calls or receives calls from 100 unique numbers, as in my example. But now suppose that one of the numbers he calls is his neighborhood Domino’s Pizza shop. The Court won’t hazard a guess as to how many different phone numbers might dial a given Domino’s Pizza outlet in New York City in a five-year period, but to take a page from the Government’s book of understatement, it’s “substantially larger” than the 100 in the second hop of my example, and would therefore most likely result in exponential growth in the scope of the query and lead to millions of records being captured by the third hop. In your testimony, you indicated that the Administration would look only at call records from a Member of Congress if it had a reasonable, articulable suspicion that the number was related to terrorism. That is not accurate. The NSA looks at individual numbers when it has low level, particularized suspicion, but it looks at millions more with no suspicion of wrongdoing whatsoever, some of whom may well be Members of Congress. As applied to all United States citizens, this program likely violates our Fourth Amendment right to privacy and chills our First Amendment right to free association. As applied to Members of Congress, it also raises grave Separation of Powers concerns for the executive branch to interfere with the private communications of the legislative branch without congressional knowledge. We must insist on as much transparency and clarity as possible consistent with national security. We therefore urge you to clarify your testimony and fully disclose all of the ways in which the government conducts or may possibly conduct surveillance on Members of Congress.
02.03.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Menomonee Falls) joined the Wisconsin delegation in sending a letter to President Barack Obama regarding the propane shortage in Wisconsin. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “The current propane shortage is not only frustrating, but dangerous as extremely low temperatures sweep across our state. I commend Governor Walker for his diligence on this issue and urge President Obama to work with us to ensure Wisconsinites are protected from hazardous weather conditions by helping make propane available and affordable.”
01.23.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) responded today to the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board’s (PCLOB) Report on the Telephone Records Program Conducted under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act and on the Operations of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Congressman Sensenbrenner is the coauthor of the bipartisan, bicameral Leahy-Sensenbrenner USA FREEDOM Act, which has 124 cosponsors in the House of Representatives and 19 in the Senate. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “As I’ve said since June, I am extremely troubled by President Obama’s misinterpretation of Section 215 of the Patriot Act. Both the president’s hand-picked panel and now the PCLOB agree that bulk collection of Americans’ phone records has come at a high cost to privacy with little to no benefit to our national security. “Section 215 was designed to obtain business records relevant to an authorized terrorism investigation. The PCLOB acknowledges the NSA’s bulk collection of telephone records does not meet that criteria and concludes the program is not legally justifiable. It also raises Constitutional concerns, citing the First and Fourth Amendments. “This report adds to the growing momentum behind genuine, legislative reform. The USA FREEDOM Act is narrowly tailored to strike the proper balance between privacy and security. And if brought to the floor for a vote, it will pass with broad bipartisan support. The president has failed to deliver on his promises of transparency and the protection of our civil liberties. It is up to Congress to rein in abuse and restore trust in our intelligence community.”
01.17.2014	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) responded today to President Obama’s speech at the Department of Justice regarding government surveillance programs and national security. Congressman Sensenbrenner is the coauthor of the bipartisan, bicameral Leahy-Sensenbrenner USA FREEDOM Act, which has 124 cosponsors in the House of Representatives and 19 in the Senate. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “President Obama says he’s listened to and consulted with experts and legislators and intends to enact reforms and expand executive oversight. Some of his proposals I agree with, others I don’t. But the bottom line is real reform cannot be done by presidential fiat. “Congressional action should be taken to protect Americans’ civil liberties by reining in the NSA, ending bulk collection and making the FISC more transparent, while keeping in place the tools needed to protect our national security. The president and intelligence community have repeatedly misled Congress and the American people and lack credibility for reform. The most effective way for the president to restore trust in the intelligence community is to endorse the USA FREEDOM Act, which strikes the proper balance between privacy and security. This bill would make permanent the good intentions of the president and address some of the omissions in his speech where Americans’ liberties need greater protection. I remain confident that if brought to the floor for a vote, the USA FREEDOM Act will pass with broad bipartisan report.”
01.16.2014	Following the bipartisan tradition of the Voting Rights Act, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) joined with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Congressman John Conyers (D-Mich.) Thursday to introduce bipartisan legislation to uphold the most vital principles of the historic law. The legislation supported by a range of civil rights groups, is a bicameral, bipartisan response to the Supreme Court’s Shelby County decision which struck down a core provision in the Voting Rights Act. That provision determines how states are covered under Section 5 of the law, which requires Federal preclearance to protect against discriminatory voting measures. The bill updates the coverage formula by making all states and jurisdictions eligible for coverage formula based on voting violations in the last 15 years. States and jurisdictions that have had a clean record over the last 15 years would not be subject to coverage. President Lyndon Johnson signed the first Voting Rights Act into law in 1965, and it has been reauthorized four times since. President George W. Bush signed the most recent reauthorization into law in 2006, after the House voted 390-33 and the Senate 98-0 in favor of the legislation. Sensenbrenner, who led House consideration in 2006 and who testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee last summer about the importance of the Voting Rights Act, said Thursday that “This legislation is a direct response to Shelby County v. Holder. When that ruling came down last summer, I knew the VRA must be fixed before the next election and any solution must be politically palatable while complying with the objections of the Supreme Court. The modernized VRA is constitutional and bipartisan. It includes strong, nationwide anti-discrimination protections and continues to permit states to enact reasonable voter ID laws. Therefore, it prevents racial-discrimination and gives states the ability to address voter fraud.” “Through months of negotiation and compromise, Congressmen Sensenbrenner and Conyers and I have agreed on a bipartisan and bicameral proposal to restore the protections of the Voting Rights Act that were weakened by the Supreme Court’s decision last summer,” Leahy said. “Our sole focus throughout this entire process was to ensure that no American would be denied his or her constitutional right to vote because of discrimination on the basis of race or color. We believe that this is a strong bipartisan bill that accomplishes this goal and that every member of Congress can support.” Conyers, ranking Democratic member of the House Judiciary Committee, and a member of the Congressional Black Caucus who cosponsored the original Voting Rights Act in 1965, said that “Nearly fifty years ago, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s powerful vision of ‘jobs, justice, and peace’ inspired my first run for Congress and became the cause of my life. After being sworn in as freshman Member of the 89th Congress, the first vote of consequence that I took was for the Voting Rights Act. Although the Shelby County v. Holder decision struck at the heart of the Act, today, it is with much pride that my colleagues and I are introducing a strengthened and renewed Voting Rights Act to reaffirm our constitutional commitment to the cornerstone of our democracy: the right to vote.” An outline of the legislation can be found here, and text of legislation can be found online. Key provisions in the bill include: • A coverage provision based on current conditions. The bill establishes a rolling nationwide trigger that covers states or jurisdictions that have a persistent record of recent voting rights violations in the last 15 years. • Allows our federal courts to bail-in the worst actors for preclearance. The current law permits states or jurisdictions to be bailed in for intentional violations, but the new legislation amends the Act to allow states or jurisdictions to be bailed in for results-based violations. • Greater transparency in elections so that voters are made aware of changes. The additional sunlight will deter discrimination from occurring and protect voters from discrimination. • Allows for preliminary relief to be obtained more readily, given that voting rights cannot often be vindicated after an election is already over. • Includes modest provisions that continue to permit states to enact reasonable photo identification laws.
01.05.2014	Senator Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) plans to file a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin against the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). The purpose of the suit is to end the employer contribution authorized for Members of Congress and their staffs who have entered the District of Colombia healthcare exchange as mandated by the Affordable Care Act. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “Senator Johnson’s lawsuit is an unfortunate political stunt. I am committed to repealing Obamacare, but the employer contribution he’s attacking is nothing more than a standard benefit that most private and all federal employees receive – including the President. Success in the suit will mean that Congress will lose some of its best staff and will be staffed primarily by recent college graduates who are still on their parents’ insurance. This will make it even more difficult to fight the President and his older, more experienced staff. “Senator Johnson should spend his time legislating rather than litigating as our country is facing big problems that must be addressed by Congress – not the courts. All Republicans want to repeal Obamacare, but this politically motivated lawsuit only takes public attention away from how bad all of Obamacare really is and focuses it on a trivial issue. Fortunately, Senator Johnson’s suit is likely frivolous and will not achieve the result he’s seeking.”
12.19.2013	Today, Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-5), Darrell Issa (CA-49), Trent Franks (AZ-08), Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Trey Gowdy (SC-04), Raul Labrador (ID-01) and Ted Poe (TX-02) sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr. urging an investigation of the Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper, for lying to Congress while testifying before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in March of 2013. “Director Clapper’s willful lie under oath fuels the unhealthy cynicism and distrust that citizens feel toward their government and undermines Congress’s ability to perform its Constitutional function,” the Members write in their letter to Holder. “There are differences of opinion about the propriety of the NSA’s data collection programs. There can be no disagreement, however, on the basic premise that congressional witnesses must answer truthfully.” “Congressional oversight depends on truthful testimony—witnesses cannot be allowed to lie to Congress. Accordingly, we request you investigate Director of National Intelligence James Clapper’s ‘erroneous’ statements to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence earlier this year.” At a March 12, 2013 Senate Select Committee on Intelligence hearing, Director Clapper was asked if, “the NSA collected any type of data at all on millions of hundreds of millions of Americans” to which he responded with, “No, Sir.” Four months later, in June 2013, after the Snowden leaks publicly exposed Clapper’s testimony as false, Clapper finally retracted his remarks and wrote, “My response was clearly erroneous, for which I apologize.”
12.18.2013	U.S. Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Ron Kind (D-Wis.) today celebrated the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which included a provision to posthumously award Lt. Alonzo Cushing with the Medal of Honor. Lieutenant Cushing, a Wisconsin-born Civil War hero, played a key role in securing a victory for the Union at Gettysburg. “Lieutenant Cushing was a courageous leader who gave his life to protect our country and deserves to be recognized for his bravery,” Rep. Sensenbrenner said. “I am extremely pleased that the Cushing amendment was passed by the House and Senate and hopeful President Obama awards Lieutenant Cushing with the Medal of Honor for his heroic service during the Civil War." “It’s never too late to do the right thing, especially when it comes to honoring our war heroes,” said Rep. Kind. “I am heartened to be joined by my colleagues in Congress in sending this bill to the President so we as a nation can finally honor Lt. Cushing with his well-deserved Medal of Honor.” A native of Delafield, WI, Lt. Cushing is best remembered for his actions on the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg when he helped turn the tide during Pickett’s Charge. On July 3, 1863, the third day of battle, Cushing and the 110 men under his command received the full force of Confederate artillery and Pickett’s Charge of 13,000 infantry. Over the course of just a few hours, all of his officers had been killed and Cushing himself was wounded. But he continued to fight, and sustained two more wounds before dying on the field of battle. Recommendations for the Medal of Honor must be formally made within two years of the heroic action and awarded within three years. The legislation passed by Congress makes it possible to waive this requirement. The medal can be awarded after the bill is signed by the President and the waiver is approved by the Department of Defense. Reps. Kind and Sensenbrenner are sending a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel requesting his prompt attention to Lt. Cushing’s record and look forward to his recommendation that Lt. Cushing be recognized with the Medal of Honor. Reps. Kind and Sensenbrenner also thanked Wisconsin Senators Ron Johnson and Tammy Baldwin for leading the effort in the Senate to award Lt. Cushing.
12.16.2013	U.S. District Court Judge Richard Leon today issued a decision, ruling that the NSA’s metadata collection program is likely unconstitutional. Questioning the constitutionality of the collection program, Judge Leon wrote: “The Government, in its understandable zeal to protect our homeland, has crafted a counterterrorism program with respect to telephony metadata that strikes the balance based in large part on a thirty-four year old Supreme Court precedent, the relevance of which has been eclipsed by technology advances and a cell phone-centric lifestyle heretofore inconceivable.” He also stated: “The Government does not cite a single instance in which analysis of the NSA’s bulk metadata collection actually stopped an imminent attack, or otherwise aided the Government in achieving any objective that was time-sensitive in nature.” Leon granted “an injunction and enter[ed] an order that (1) bars the government from collection, as part of the NSA’s Bulk Telephony Metadata Program, any telephony metadata associated with their personal Verizon accounts and (2) requires the Government to destroy any such metadata in its possession that was collected through the bulk collection program.” Leon will stay his order pending an appeal. “In doing so, I hereby give the Government fair notice that should my ruling be upheld, this order will go into effect forthwith.” Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “Judge Leon’s decision further highlights the need to pass the USA FREEDOM Act. The slow trickle of revelations that began in June about NSA spying have exposed the most intrusive and secretive programs in American history. From the onset, I have been extremely critical of the government’s dragnet collection of Americans’ data. I am encouraged by the district court’s ruling. It will add to the growing momentum behind the USA FREEDOM Act, which has garnered support from a large, diverse bloc of my colleagues and the business community. The Executive Branch should join Congress to institute meaningful reform.” Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), chairman of the House Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security Subcommittee, and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) introduced the USA FREEDOM Act on October 29. This legislation would restore Americans’ privacy rights by reining in the dragnet collection of data by the NSA and other government agencies, increase transparency of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), provide businesses the ability to release information regarding FISA requests and create an independent constitutional advocate to argue cases before the FISC. The USA FREEDOM Act currently has 115 cosponsors in the House of Representatives and 18 in the Senate. It also has the support of tech giants AOL, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Mozilla and others.
12.06.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and several other members of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee today sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy expressing concerns with the EPA’s lack of transparency in its public outreach process regarding proposed greenhouse gas regulations for power plants. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “People around the country deserve an opportunity to weigh in on policies that directly affect their lives. But instead of conducting an honest discussion, the EPA’s listening session tour amounted to nothing more than a publicity stunt. The EPA’s proposed regulations on carbon emissions will have damning effects on jobs, energy costs and the economy – especially in states like Wisconsin that rely on coal-fueled power plants. But not one listening session was held in Wisconsin. The EPA’s disingenuous attempt at transparency is a slap in the face to all Americans who will be directly affected by its regulatory power grab.”
11.21.2013	Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), coauthors of the USA FREEDOM Act to end dragnet collection of Americans’ phone records, Thursday welcomed the support of a broad coalition of technology companies, trade associations and nonprofit organizations that advocate “privacy protections, oversight and accountability mechanisms that govern” surveillance authorities. In a letter to Leahy and Sensenbrenner, the group of nearly 60 signees including Hewlett-Packard, Dropbox and Tumblr outline their priorities to address privacy and transparency concerns raised by revelations of sweeping surveillance use. They call for legislation to allow companies to disclose surveillance requests, to provide greater transparency on government use of surveillance authorities, to focus intelligence gathering on foreign powers, and to protect constitutional and human rights. A copy of the letter is below and available online. The USA FREEDOM Act, which Leahy and Sensenbrenner introduced last month, would end the dragnet collection of Americans’ phone records under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act and ensure that other authorities cannot be used to justify similar dragnet collection. The bill also provides more safeguards for warrantless surveillance under the FISA Amendments Act. The bill includes other significant privacy and oversight provisions, provides for the creation of a Special Advocate to focus on the protection of privacy rights and civil liberties before the FISA Court, and requires more detailed public reporting about the number and types of FISA orders that are issued. The USA FREEDOM Act has over 115 cosponsors in the House and Senate and is supported by dozens of groups and businesses crossing the political spectrum.
11.19.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), chairman of the House Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee, presented the keynote address on surveillance and foreign intelligence gathering in the United States at the Georgetown University Law Center. His prepared remarks can be viewed here. Congressman Sensenbrenner and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) introduced H.R. 3361/S. 1599, the USA FREEDOM Act, which seeks to restore Americans’ privacy rights by ending the government’s dragnet collection of phone records and requiring greater oversight, transparency and accountability with respect to domestic surveillance authorities. The comprehensive USA FREEDOM Act has over 100 bipartisan cosponsors in the House and Senate and has been endorsed by groups ranging from the NRA to the ACLU. It also has garnered the support of technology companies such as Apple, Facebook, Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, LinkedIn and Mozilla.
11.18.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) sent a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy today following her November 14th testimony before the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. The subject of the hearing was “Strengthening Transparency and Accountability within the Environmental Protection Agency.” Congressman Sensenbrenner questioned Administrator McCarthy on E15. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “There have been several tests highlighting E15’s harmful effects on engines, but they have all been dismissed by the EPA. However, I am encouraged that Administrator McCarthy feels “additional research that’s done credibly and transparent is always welcome,” because my bill requires just that. Americans using gas-powered machinery should not be put in danger due to faulty fuel that has not been adequately vetted. I expect a timely response from Administrator McCarthy and encourage her to endorse H.R. 875.” Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced H.R. 875, which would repeal the EPA’s waiver decision approving the use of E15 and the authority of the agency to grant further decisions until the EPA seeks an independent scientific analysis.
11.13.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Congressman Danny Davis (D-Ill.) today introduced H.R. 3465, the Second Chance Reauthorization Act, with the support of Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Congressman Howard Coble (R-N.C.) and others. The Second Chance Act was passed by Congress with strong bipartisan support and signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2008. This legislation provides non-profit faith and community-based organizations with mentoring grants to develop support programs such as drug treatment, housing, job training, medical care and education. Re-entry services have been improved, which has resulted in a reduction in recidivism and helped ensure a successful return to society for prisoners who have completed their sentence. The Second Chance Reauthorization Act builds on the success of the original legislation and continues to authorize funding for both public and private entities to evaluate and improve academic and vocational education for offenders in prison, jails and juvenile facilities. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “As chairman of the Over-Criminalization Task Force, I am committed to strengthening our criminal justice system to ensure prisons serve as a deterrent and a place where people can be rehabilitated. There is overwhelming evidence that the Second Chance Act has been a resounding success by helping fully integrate prisoners back into society. Education and positive reinforcement are some of the most effective tools to prevent illegal behavior, and this law has improved re-entry services – not only saving taxpayer dollars, but changing lives, strengthening families and improving our communities. Reauthorization of these programs is important.” Congressman Danny Davis: “The second chance law has proven to seriously help reduce recidivism and provide hope for large numbers of individuals to turn their lives around and become productive citizens who can contribute to the well-being of society.” Congressman John Conyers: “Reauthorization of the Second Chance Act is critical to disrupting the prison pipeline which has plagued so many minority communities across the nation. By supporting community based re-entry programs, this legislation provides critical assistance to those emerging from our jails and prisons, allowing them to rebuild their families and become productive members of our society. I hope that this bipartisan effort will have success similar to our original effort in 2007, so that we can speed this to the President’s desk.” Congressman Howard Coble: “When we authored the Second Chance Act, it was a break with the past. No longer would we just warehouse prisoners without any hope of offering these criminals a way to change their lives. The Second Chance Act provides those convicted of crimes with the counseling, training and education that is needed before they are released from prison. It is a concrete program to slow the rate of recidivism and it is working.” Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Senator Rob Portman (R-Ohio) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate.
11.11.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), former Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee and author of the USA PATRIOT Act, testified today in Brussels before the European Parliament’s Civil Liberties Committee. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I firmly believe the Patriot Act saved lives by strengthening the ability of intelligence agencies to track and stop potential terrorists, but in the past few years, the National Security Agency has weakened, misconstrued and ignored the civil liberty protections we drafted into the law. To address these issues, I have introduced the USA FREEDOM Act along with Senator Patrick Leahy, the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, to curtail surveillance abuses and restore trust in the US intelligence community. “International cooperation is crucial to stopping terrorism, but trust is also integral. I ask my friends in the European Parliament to work pragmatically with the United States to continue balanced efforts to protect our nations. Together we can rebuild trust while defending civil liberties and national security on both sides of the Atlantic.” View prepared statement here.
11.01.2013	Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), chairman of the Crime and Terrorism Subcommittee in the House, welcomed the broad support among stakeholders for legislation they introduced this week that would end the government’s dragnet collection of phone records and require greater oversight, transparency and accountability with respect to domestic surveillance authorities. “The breadth of support for our bipartisan, bicameral legislation demonstrates that protecting Americans’ privacy not only cuts across the party divide, but also addresses concerns raised by the technology industry and other advocates,” Leahy and Sensenbrenner said in a joint statement. “The time is now for serious and meaningful reform. We are committed to working with lawmakers on both sides of the aisle to get this done so we can restore confidence in our intelligence community and protect the privacy rights of our citizens.” The USA FREEDOM Act has over 100 cosponsors in the House and Senate and dozens of supporters including the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Rifle Association, the Project on Government Oversight and several technology companies including Microsoft, Apple, Yahoo, Facebook, AOL, Google, LinkedIn and Mozilla. Early Support For The USA FREEDOM Act “We are two veteran lawmakers who believe now is the time for that reform and for a meaningful discussion about protecting privacy and national security in the 21st century. We are not alone,” Leahy & Sensenbrenner op-ed (Politico, Oct. 29) • “The Freedom Act takes an important step toward rebuilding user trust by adding limitations on government collection of data in the name of national security. The idea is simple. The NSA should not have a blank check to access user data from technology companies.” Mozilla (release) • “Transparency is a critical first step to an informed public debate, but it is clear that more needs to be done. Our companies believe that government surveillance practices should also be reformed to include substantial enhancements for privacy protections and appropriate oversight and accountability mechanisms for those programs. ” Microsoft, Apple, Yahoo, Facebook, AOL, Google, and LinkedIn (letter) • “BSA commends Chairman Leahy and Chairman Sensenbrenner for introducing this important legislation… It is critical that we restore the public’s trust by improving transparency and showing the world that the United States is striking the right balance between national security needs and individual privacy,” BSA | The Software Alliance (release) • “The introduction of the USA Freedom Act is a vital and positive step forward in establishing a net set of policies to govern how the federal government collects data and the tech industry’s role in complying with government information requests,” Information Technology Industry Council (release) • “We hope the upcoming legislative process will fill this void and provide the insights to undertake the major reforms that are now clearly necessary. I commend the Leahy/Sensenbrenner legislation for this beginning. It is vital to reform and properly focus our current surveillance system,” Ed Black, the chief executive officer of the Computer & Communications Industry Association (release) • “Is it really better for us to think that things have gone so far with the post-9/11 idea that any spying that can be done should be done and that nobody thought to inform President Obama about tapping the phone of one of the most important American allies?” New York Times editorial (Oct. 29) • “Public outrage has only grown [as] Americans learned more about the shocking, unprecedented invasions of their privacy by their government. The Freedom Act is a critical first step to reign in the unchecked, unconstitutional excesses of our government,” Caledonian-Record editorial (Oct. 31) • “It is noteworthy that protection of our privacy rights is a cause shared by liberals and conservatives. The supporters of Leahy’s bill include a spectrum of senators that stretches from Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, to Mike Lee, Republican of Utah,” Rutland Herald editorial (Nov. 1)
10.29.2013	Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), chairman of the Crime and Terrorism Subcommittee in the House, introduced on Tuesday legislation that seeks to restore Americans’ privacy rights by ending the government’s dragnet collection of phone records and requiring greater oversight, transparency and accountability with respect to domestic surveillance authorities. “The government surveillance programs conducted under the Foreign Surveillance Intelligence Act are far broader than the American people previously understood. It is time for serious and meaningful reforms so we can restore confidence in our intelligence community,” Leahy said. “Modest transparency and oversight provisions are not enough. We need real reform, which is why I join today with Congressman Sensenbrenner, as well as a bipartisan group of 15 Senators, to introduce the USA FREEDOM Act.” “Following 9/11, the USA PATRIOT Act passed the judiciary committees with overwhelming bipartisan support. The bill has helped keep Americans safe by ensuring information is shared among those responsible for defending our country and by enhancing the tools the intelligence community needs to identify and track terrorists,” Sensenbrenner said. “But somewhere along the way, the balance between security and privacy was lost. It’s now time for the judiciary committees to again come together in a bipartisan fashion to ensure the law is properly interpreted, past abuses are not repeated and American liberties are protected. Washington must regain Americans’ trust in their government. The USA FREEDOM Act is an essential first step. I would like to thank Congressmen Conyers and Amash, Congresswoman Lofgren, Chairman Issa and others for working with us to draft this important legislation and encourage all my colleagues to support it.” The USA FREEDOM Act would end the dragnet collection of Americans’ phone records under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act and ensure that other authorities cannot be used to justify similar dragnet collection. The bill also provides more safeguards for warrantless surveillance under the FISA Amendments Act. The bill includes other significant privacy and oversight provisions, provides for the creation of a Special Advocate to focus on the protection of privacy rights and civil liberties before the FISA Court, and requires more detailed public reporting about the numbers and types of FISA orders that are issued. The bill has 16 cosponsors in the Senate including Senators Mike Lee (R-Utah), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Mark Begich (D-Alaska), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisc.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Mark Udall (D-Colo.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), and Joe Schatz (D-Hawaii). The measure also has more than 70 bipartisan cosponsors in the House and enjoys the diverse support of groups ranging from the National Rifle Association to the American Civil Liberties Union. Leahy and Sensenbrenner’s joint op-ed on the USA FREEDOM Act, which Tuesday appeared in Politico, can be viewed here. An outline of the legislation can be found here, and text of legislation can be found online.
10.08.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today sent a follow-up letter to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding the Department of Justice’s interpretation of Section 215 of the Patriot Act. The justification the administration uses for bulk collection could potentially support the bulk collection of other records, including financial records, records of firearms sales, and countless other commercial transactions. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “We know the NSA is collecting details of every American’s phone records. The strained legal argument the Obama administration relies on for this authority would seem to justify the dragnet collection of other types of personal data as well. What other records is the administration collecting in bulk on innocent Americans? “While targets of terrorist investigations need to remain classified, programs used to collect such information should be up for public debate. “Soon, I will be introducing the USA FREEDOM Act – comprehensive legislation to end the bulk collection of Americans’ communication records, protect companies who work with the government and increase the transparency of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC). This bipartisan, bicameral effort will be led by Ranking Member Conyers and me in the House and Senator Leahy, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, in the Senate.”
09.20.2013	The House of Representatives today passed a continuing resolution (CR) with the support of Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI). The short-term CR would expire December 15, 2013 and includes H.R. 2682, the Defund Obamacare Act. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The Republican-controlled House has made its stance against Obamacare perfectly clear. And today, the House again voted to defund Obamacare as part of the CR to keep the government running. Now it is up to the Senate to do what the American people want and vote against the president’s abominable health care law.”
09.19.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Committee on Science, Space, and Technology Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) today introduced the Public Access to Public Science (PAPS) Act. This legislation would ensure public access to published materials concerning scientific research and development activities funded by federal science agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the National Weather Service (NWS). An embargo period is included to help balance publishers’ needs with public access goals. PAPS builds on efforts by the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner: “It is past time to embrace a public access policy for scientific research. Currently, scholarly journals count on taxpayers footing the bill for research on the front end and access to the results on the back end. The federal government spends over $100 billion annually on research and development, but denies adequate access to the taxpayers who fund it. This bill would ensure Americans have access to the results of their investment. Public access will also lead to less duplicative research, foster innovation, increase scientific breakthroughs and keep America on the cutting edge of science and technology. This is a pro-taxpayer, pro-science, pro-information sharing bill. And we’ve worked in conjunction with OSTP to ensure we are codifying the work they have done within the Science Committee’s Jurisdiction.” Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson: “I want to thank Mr. Sensenbrenner for his leadership on this issue. I am delighted to join him in introducing this legislation. Public access is an important topic across the scientific enterprise, and for budding scientists, start-up companies, garage inventors, and families everywhere. Increased access and increased use of technology to enable and promote discovery across the corpus of scientific literature will advance the frontiers of science, medicine, and innovation across all sectors of our economy. In 2009 and 2010, the Science, Space, and Technology Committee took a leadership role on public access, launching an open process that culminated in the 2013 OSTP guidance to all federal research agencies to develop public access plans. In codifying OSTP’s guidance with this legislation, we strove to balance sometimes opposing concerns on the part of different stakeholder groups. But as with any introduced bill, this remains a work in progress. I look forward to continuing to work with Mr. Sensenbrenner and with all interested parties as we move forward.”
09.06.2013	On Wednesday, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) filed an amicus brief in the American Civil Liberties Union’s (ACLU) lawsuit against officials in the Obama Administration. The brief argues the National Security Agency’s (NSA) bulk collection of phone records violates the Patriot Act and Congress’s clear intent. The National Rifle Association (NRA) also filed an amicus brief in the ACLU’s lawsuit questioning whether the Administration could violate our Second Amendment rights under its misinterpretation of Section 215. A Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) training manual specifically lists gun sales as records the FBI can obtain under Section 215, the so-called business records provision of the Patriot Act. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The NSA’s dragnet collection of data is a violation of Americans’ privacy rights and a misinterpretation of the law. Bulk data collection has frightening implications. The Administration believes every phone call that every American makes is relevant to terrorism investigations. Does it also believe every gun sale is relevant? The same flawed legal argument could be used to build a national gun database, violating our Second Amendment rights. “This misinterpretation of the law threatens our First, Second and Fourth Amendment rights. Congress never intended this. I will rein in the abuse of both the Patriot Act and the U.S. Constitution with the support of the American public.”
09.06.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) sent a letter today to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding the National Security Agency’s (NSA) bulk collection of data and the Administration’s misinterpretation of Section 215 of the Patriot Act. On Wednesday, Congressman Sensenbrenner and the National Rifle Association (NRA) filed separate amicus briefs in the American Civil Liberties Union’s (ACLU) lawsuit against administration officials. A Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) training manual specifically lists gun sales as records the FBI can obtain under Section 215, the so-called business records provision. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The flawed logic the Obama administration relied on to support bulk collection of Americans’ phone data would also support bulk collection of other personal data. Does the administration believe it has the authority to indiscriminately collect records of firearms sales? “The FBI, for example, could conclude that it is interested in firearms sales – not only in the type of firearms being purchased, but also in who is selling firearms to whom – thereby ascribing importance to the connections between the buyers and sellers. These connections would make firearms sales indistinguishable from phone records under the administration’s analysis. “The administration’s legal view of Section 215 could potentially support building a national gun registry despite Congress’s expressed disapproval and the Second Amendment. This view is beyond anything Congress ever intended and must be reined in.”
09.04.2013	President Obama has sought the approval of Congress to carry-out an airstrike on Syria. Approval for military action was requested in a letter to the President by several members of the House of Representatives, including Congressman Sensenbrenner (R-WI). The House is expected to debate whether to carry out the strike when it reconvenes next week. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “President Obama set a red line for action in Syria and is now in denial. The actions by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his regime are reprehensible, but Congress did not set a red line for military action in Syria—President Obama did. And his plan for military force will not help the Syrian people or promote the freedom or security of the United States. Therefore, I oppose the President’s plan and intend to vote against it when it is considered by the House.”
08.22.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) issued the following statement regarding actions taken by the Justice Department today. Congressman Sensenbrenner: "I regret that the Department of Justice announced its intent to file a lawsuit against Texas’ Voter ID law citing Section 2 to the Voting Rights Act. The Texas legislature passed Voter ID, and Governor Perry signed this legislation into law in 2011. Voter ID laws are an essential element in protecting the integrity of our electoral process and do not have a discriminatory intent or effect. "I spoke with Attorney General Holder today and requested that he withdraw his Section 2 lawsuit until there can be a legislative fix of the Voting Rights Act. The lawsuit would make it much more difficult to pass a bipartisan fix to restore the heart of the VRA that the Supreme Court struck down earlier this year."
08.02.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) introduced the Business Activity Tax Simplification Act (BATSA) today, which would limit state attempts to collect taxes from out-of-state businesses and codify the physical presence standard for state taxation of business activities. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Per the Supreme Court, the Commerce Clause forbids states from levying taxes against individuals who lack a “substantial nexus” with the state. But the Court left many states unsure about what constitutes a “substantial nexus” and the extent of their ability to levy certain taxes on out-of-state businesses. “This bipartisan bill aims to clear up what the Court left vague and ripe for misinterpretation. Some states have misconstrued their authority to levy business activity taxes, which has resulted in uncertainty for small businesses and state governments alike. BATSA resolves the existing ambiguity by establishing a clear and concise rule for when a sufficient connection exists to justify taxation.”
08.01.2013	President Obama invited the principal author of the Patriot Act, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR), Mark Udall (D-CO), Dick Durbin (D-Il), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), House Intel Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI) and Ranking Member Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) to a meeting in the Oval Office today to discuss National Security. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “It is becoming increasingly apparent the balance between security and liberty has been tainted. Amidst public outcry, the President invited members from both sides of the debate to discuss this important issue. The conversation was productive and everyone agreed something must be done. “Washington must ensure our homeland is protected, as is our right to privacy. Therefore, following the August recess, I intend to introduce legislation to ensure Section 215 of the Patriot Act is properly interpreted and implemented. The bill will ensure the dragnet collection of data by the NSA is reined in, safeguards are established to significantly increase the transparency of the FISA Court and protections are put in place for businesses who work with the government. “As a result of the meeting at the White House, I was unable to cast my vote on H.R. 1582, the Energy Consumers Relief Act. If I were present, I would have voted in support of ensuring greater transparency and oversight of the EPA, and am extremely pleased it passed the House.”
08.01.2013	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 1911 on Thursday, May 23, with the support of Congressman Sensenbrenner (R-WI). This bill would link the base interest rate to the 10-year Treasury Note. All outstanding loans would reset to the current 10-year Treasury Note rate once per year. And upon or subsequent to graduation, students could consolidate and lock in fixed rates for the life of their loans. On July 24, the Senate incorporated a substitute amendment by Senators Manchin (D-WV) and Burr (R-NC). The House of Representatives passed H.R. 1911, the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, as amended by the Senate, yesterday with the support of Congressman Sensenbrenner. “This legislation is a step toward fiscal stability and helps students relying on loans to further their education. House Republicans recognize the additional stress our struggling economy is putting on graduates, especially those with student debt. This bill would prevent student interest rates from doubling this fall and provide a permanent fix to the student loan program while protecting taxpayers by not adding to the deficit. It’s unfortunate Democrats held up this effort, but I am glad to see the House approve a bill with the proper urgency to move from a plan dictated by politics to one that is market-based.”
07.17.2013	At the House Judiciary Committee hearing today on “Oversight of the Administration’s use of FISA Authorities,” Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) presented the Committee with the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) response to his June 6th letter to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding the Department’s interpretation and implementation of Section 215 of the Patriot Act as it pertains to the collection of phone records.
07.17.2013	The Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing today entitled “From Selma to Shelby County: Working Together to Restore the Protections of the Voting Rights Act.” Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and John Lewis (D-GA) were asked to testify. Congressman Sensenbrenner submitted the following statement: Good afternoon Chairman Leahy, Ranking Member Grassley and distinguished members of the Committee. Thank you for inviting me to provide my perspective on the continued importance of the Voting Rights Act. I am proud to have served as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee in 2006 when Congress last reauthorized the VRA. The VRA is one of the most important pieces of civil rights legislation ever passed and is vital to our commitment to never again permit racial prejudices in our electoral process. It began a healing process that ameliorated decades of discrimination and helped distinguish a democracy that serves as an example for the world. Free, fair, and accessible elections are sacrosanct, and the right of every legal voter to cast their ballot must be unassailable. The VRA broke from past attempts to end voter discrimination by requiring federal preclearance of changes to voting laws in areas with documented histories of discrimination. There is no acceptable remedy for an unfair election after the fact. Section 5 of the VRA was the only federal remedy that could stop discriminatory practices before they affected elections. That’s why preserving the VRA is so important – it ensures that every citizen has an equal opportunity to participate in our democracy. Remedial actions can never be fully sufficient for elections, because often what is done cannot be undone, and voices silenced can never be heard. In 1982, I helped lead negotiations to reauthorize the VRA. The legislation cleared the House of Representatives 389-24 and was signed into law by President Reagan. When he signed the reauthorization, President Reagan said: “There are differences over how to attain the equality we seek for all our people. And sometimes amidst all the overblown rhetoric, the differences tend to seem bigger than they are. But actions speak louder than words. This legislation proves our unbending commitment to voting rights. It also proves that differences can be settled in a spirit of good will and good faith. As I've said before, the right to vote is the crown jewel of American liberties, and we will not see its luster diminished.” One of my most cherished keepsakes is a pen President Reagan used to sign the 1982 extension. I proudly display it in my office; a symbol of the crown jewel of our liberty. The 1982 extension was for 25 years. I believed it was the last time we would need to reauthorize the VRA. But in 2006, while I was Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, I became convinced the legislation was still needed. As Chairman, I held multiple hearings examining the effectiveness of the VRA, whether the VRA should be extended, and if so, what the extension should encompass. Congress amassed a legislative record that totaled more than 15,000 pages documenting widespread evidence of intentional discrimination. In the dissent in Shelby County v. Holder, Justice Ginsburg quoted me as saying that the VRA was “one of the most extensive considerations of any piece of legislation that the United States Congress has dealt with in the 27½ years I served in Congress.” Had she called me, I would have updated that to 35½ years. At the conclusion of its effort, Congress’s bipartisan conclusion was that “evidence of continued discrimination clearly show[ed] the continued need for federal oversight.” Shelby County vs. Holder severely weakened the election protections that both parties have fought to maintain. The Court disregarded years of work by Congress. In a 5-4 decision, the Court eliminated the VRA’s formula for determining which areas are covered by section 5. The result is that the preclearance requirement remains, but it no longer applies anywhere except in the handful of locations currently subject to a court order. The majority’s decision suffers from one glaring oversight: it fails to account for the bailout procedures in the VRA reauthorization. Chief Justice Roberts correctly recognized that the VRA “employed extraordinary measures to address an extraordinary problem.” But while the majority chastised Congress for failing to update section 4’s coverage formula, it ignored the fact that covered areas can bailout of the VRA’s coverage. Far from punishing areas for distant history, any covered jurisdiction could bailout of coverage by demonstrating a 10 year period without discrimination. The coverage formula, considered in conjunction with the Act’s bailout procedures, ensures that the Act is a fluid and current response to discrimination. The very fact that these jurisdictions have not bailed out is evidence that the VRA’s “extraordinary measures” are still necessary. By striking down Section 4, the Court presented Congress with both a challenge and a historic opportunity. We are again called to restore the critical protections of the act by crafting a new formula that will cover jurisdictions with recent evidence of discrimination. Any solution must be bipartisan and must comply with the Supreme Court’s objections. Fixing the VRA will take time, but I am confident that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle can work together to ensure Americans' most sacred right is protected. I did not expect my career to include a third reauthorization of the VRA, but I believe it is a necessary challenge. Voter discrimination still exists, and our progress toward equality should not be mistaken for a final victory.
06.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) and Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-Va.) met with U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to discuss his sworn congressional testimony and the search warrant for James Rosen’s emails. After the meeting, they issued the joint statement below: “Today we had a frank discussion with Attorney General Holder about his testimony before the House Judiciary Committee and the search warrant for James Rosen’s emails. The House Judiciary Committee intends to issue a report outlining its findings of its investigation into this matter. We felt it was prudent to hold a private meeting with Attorney General Holder due to the pending prosecution of Mr. Kim. The private meeting afforded us the opportunity to ask Attorney General Holder substantive questions about the ongoing prosecution and the relationship between Mr. Kim and Mr. Rosen that he would not have been able to answer in a public setting.”
06.26.2013	The National Taxpayers Union (NTU) sent a letter to Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) offering an endorsement for H.R. 1479, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to remove the deduction for charitable contributions from the overall limitation on itemized deductions. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As always, it is an honor to have the support of the NTU. This bipartisan effort would prevent our tax-code from dissuading Americans from giving to charitable organizations, affirm our country’s rich tradition of giving and reinforce our commitment to charity. America leads the world in charitable giving. It is engrained in our moral fiber. Non-profits and charities are our country’s first safety net and can play a critical role in lessening the load on financially-strapped government programs. We should continue to encourage communities to take care of one another rather than instill ever-growing reliance on government. I look forward to further support for H.R. 1479 from those both in and outside our philanthropic sector and encourage Congress to bring it to the floor for a vote.”
06.26.2013	(WASHINGTON) – Today, senior Members of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee including F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr, (R-Wis.), John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Melvin L. Watt (D-N.C.), and Steve Chabot (R-Ohio) released this statement addressing the Supreme Court ruling in Shelby County, Alabama v. Holder that overturned the coverage formula for Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. In a 5-4 decision, the Court voted "Our decision in no way affects the permanent, nationwide ban on racial discrimination in voting found in [Section] 2. We issue no holding on [Section] 5 itself, only on the coverage formula. Congress may draft another formula based on current conditions." F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-Wis.): “The Voting Rights Act is vital to America’s commitment to never again permit racial prejudices in the electoral process. Section 5 of the Act was a bipartisan effort to rectify past injustices and ensure minorities’ ability to participate in elections, but the threat of discrimination still exists. I am disappointed by the Court’s ruling, but my colleagues and I will work in a bipartisan fashion to update Section 4 to ensure Section 5 can be properly implemented to protect voting rights, especially for minorities. This is going to take time and will require members from both sides of the aisle to put partisan politics aside and ensure Americans’ most sacred right is protected.” John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.): “While I am encouraged that the Court upheld the preclearance requirement of Section 5, its decision striking the coverage formula in Section 4 will do real damage to voting rights absent a swift and clear congressional legislative response. It is unfortunate that the Court ignored Congress’ unprecedented and comprehensive legislative findings in reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act in 2006 on an overwhelming and bipartisan basis. The decision missed an opportunity to reinforce the important role that the federal government has in ensuring that all Americans have an equal right to access the ballot box and have their votes count. I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that the voting rights of all Americans are protected.” Melvin L. Watt (D-N.C.): “My colleagues on the Judiciary Committee and I helped build a voluminous legislative record of over 15,000 pages that we believe more than justified reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act (VRA) and extension of the preclearance requirements of Section 5 of the VRA. Today, the activist majority on the Supreme Court has taken the unprecedented step of taking over a uniquely legislative function in disregard of the extensive work of the legislative branch and substituting their own judgment for that of elected representatives. The decision overturning Section 4 of the VRA leaves millions of Americans vulnerable to discrimination in the most fundamental right of citizenship—the right to vote. I am deeply disappointed by the result they have reached and its impact on minority voters as well as the precedent they have set for disregarding the factual and political judgment of elected Members of Congress.” Steve Chabot (R-Ohio): “I am disappointed that the Court invalidated the Voting Rights Act’s coverage formula, which has been used for decades to help protect the voting rights of millions of Americans. However, by leaving Section 5’s pre-clearance requirements intact, the Court has given Congress the opportunity to amend the coverage formula to preserve these important protections. I am hopeful that we will work together to enact an appropriate fix in the same bipartisan manner and spirit that we did when reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act in 2006.”
06.14.2013	The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 1960, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2014, with bipartisan support. The NDAA includes an amendment by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Ron Kind (D-WI). The amendment authorizes an award of the Medal of Honor to First Lieutenant Alonzo H. Cushing for Acts of Valor during the Civil War. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The NDAA has been signed into law for 51 straight years – proof of America’s unfettered commitment to national security and our brave men and women in uniform. I am very pleased our bipartisan amendment to honor First Lieutenant Alonzo Cushing – a Civil War Hero of Delafield, Wisconsin who played a pivotal during the battle of Gettysburg – is included in the bill. Lt. Cushing was a courageous leader who gave his life to protect our sovereign nation. This brave Wisconsinite should be awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroic service.”
06.13.2013	The House Judiciary Committee today approved legislation by voice vote that prohibits state and local governments that receive federal economic development funds from using eminent domain to transfer private property from one private owner to another for the purpose of economic development, the Private Property Rights Protection Act (H.R. 1944). This legislation is in response to the 2005 Supreme Court decision in the case of Kelo v. City of New London, which gives local governments broad authority to seize private property under the guise of economic development just to generate tax revenue. The Private Property Rights Protection Act passed the House of Representatives in the 109th and 112th Congresses. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), chief sponsor of the Private Property Rights Protection Act, praised today’s Committee vote. Chairman Goodlatte: “Private ownership of property is vital to our freedom and prosperity, and is one of the most fundamental principles embedded in the U.S. Constitution; however, the 2005 Supreme Court decision issued in the Kelo vs. City of New London case jeopardizes the protection of private property from government seizure guaranteed by the Constitution. The Private Property Rights Protection Act will help to limit the negative impact of this damaging Supreme Court decision. “Families all across our nation continue to fight hard and make the tough decisions necessary to keep their homes, farms and businesses in these challenging economic times. It is simply wrong to allow the government to sweep in and grab hardworking Americans’ property just to hand it over to someone else the government thinks should have it.” Congressman Sensenbrenner: “American citizens have a fundamental right to use their property for whatever lawful purpose they choose. Congress should protect private property rights and reform the use and abuse of eminent domain. As a result of Kelo v. City of New London, farmers in Wisconsin are particularly vulnerable because farmland is less valuable than residential or commercial property. This bill would restore the rights the Supreme Court took away and provide Americans with the means to protect their private property from inappropriate claims of eminent domain.”
06.12.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) prepared the following statement for today’s House Judiciary Committee markup on H.R. 1944, the Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2013: I thank the Chairman for putting H.R. 1944, the Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2013, on today’s calendar. This legislation has been around for a number of years, and I am pleased that has enjoyed support from both sides of the aisle. This legislation was originally drafted in response to the Supreme Court’s decision in Kelo vs. City of New London. In this 2005 decision, the court held 5-4 that “economic development” can be a “public use” under the Fifth Amendment’s Takings Clause, justifying the government’s taking of private property. This ruling justified the government’s taking of private property from one small homeowner and giving it to a private business for use in the interest of creating a more lucrative tax base. Kelo grants the government significant power with virtually zero accountability to the “public use” requirement in the Fifth Amendment’s Taking Clause. The implications of this decision transformed the original purpose of the “public use” limitation. Kelo permits the government to force individuals to forfeit their private property to a large corporation. The dissent Kelo protested this over-reaching power and modification of the takings clause. Former Justice O’Connor stated, “The government now has license to transfer property from those with fewer resources to those with more. The Founders cannot have intended this perverse result.” Other groups including the AARP and NAACP also opposed Kelo, noting that “The takings that result [from the Court’s decision] will disproportionately affect and harm the economically disadvantaged and, in particular, racial and ethnic minorities and the elderly.” Furthermore, representatives of religious organizations have stated that “Houses of worship and other religious institutions are, by their very nature, non-profit and almost universally tax-exempt. These fundamental characteristics of religious institutions render their property singularly vulnerable to being taken under the rationale approved by the Supreme Court.” In 2005, I first introduced a version of this bill to restore to all Americans the property rights the Supreme Court took away. That bill, H.R. 4128, passed with the clear support of this House by a vote of 376-38. Since Kelo, more than 40 states have passed laws to rein in eminent domain power. Yet, these laws exist on a varying degree, and the need to ensure that property rights are returned to all Americans is as strong now as it was when Kelo was decided. The Private Property Rights Protection Act enhances the penalty for states and localities that abuse their eminent domain power by denying states or localities that commit such abuse all federal economic development funds for a period of two years. Specifically, if a state or political subdivision of a state uses its eminent domain power to transfer private property to other private parties for economic development, the state is ineligible to receive federal economic development funds for two fiscal years following a judicial determination that the law has been violated. Additionally, the bill prohibits the federal government from using eminent domain for economic development purposes. The protection of property rights is one of the most important tenets of our government. I am mindful of the long history of eminent domain abuses, particularly in low-income and often predominantly minority neighborhoods, and the need to stop it. I am also mindful of the reasons we should allow the government to take land when the way in which the land is being used constitutes an immediate threat to public health and safety. I believe this bill accomplishes both goals. I urge my colleagues to join me in protecting property rights for all Americans and limiting the dangerous effects of the Kelo decision on the most vulnerable in society. I yield back the balance of my time.
06.06.2013	Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder on May 29th. The letter sought answers to the discrepancies between his sworn testimony before the House Judiciary Committee and his role in obtaining a search warrant for the emails of James Rosen of Fox News. Last night, Attorney General Holder sent his response. Unsatisfied with his response, Judiciary Committee Republicans today sent another letter to Attorney General Holder requesting that he appear before the Committee on June 18, 2013, or some other time before the July 4th recess. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I appreciate the response from the Attorney General. However, serious questions remain. Why did the Attorney General tell the Committee he had no knowledge of potential prosecutions even though he signed off on the Rosen warrant? And why were the AP subpoenas and the Rosen warrant from the Department so broad? I hope the Attorney General will return to the Committee to address these questions on the record. If he does, and if his responses are satisfactory, we can at least put an end to questions about whether the Attorney General misled Congress. “In his response, Holder stated that he’s initiated a review of the Department’s policies related to investigations of the media. That’s the fox guarding the hen house. Holder refuses to hold himself accountable. The fundamental question is whether the Department can be trusted to police itself. I am not convinced the chilling effect this has had on unfettered investigative journalism can be rectified under this Attorney General.”
06.06.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s application for a top secret court order to collect the phone records of essentially every call made by millions of Verizon customers. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “As the author of the Patriot Act, I am extremely troubled by the FBI’s interpretation of this legislation. While I believe the Patriot Act appropriately balanced national security concerns and civil rights, I have always worried about potential abuses. The Bureau’s broad application for phone records was made under the so-called business records provision of the Act. I do not believe the broadly drafted FISA order is consistent with the requirements of the Patriot Act. Seizing phone records of millions of innocent people is excessive and un-American.”
06.04.2013	Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) prepared the following opening statement for today’s hearing on “The Department of Justice's Handling of Known or Suspected Terrorists Admitted into the Federal Witness Security Program”: Last month, the Justice Department’s Inspector General released a report that should have sent chills through anyone who read it. The report was titled “the Department of Justice’s Handling of Known or Suspected Terrorists Admitted into the Federal Witness Security Program,” but it just as easily could have been called “the Department of Justice’s MIS-handling” of this program. The Witness Security Program, often called WITSEC, is a critical prosecutorial tool that has been in existence since 1971. The program protects witnesses who agree to testify in a variety of different types of criminal cases, including drug trafficking, organized crime and, in recent years, terrorism cases. For example, witnesses involved in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and the “Blind Sheik” prosecutions have been included in the WITSEC Program. In order to protect them from harm stemming from their testimony, participants are relocated to a new community by the Justice Department, afforded financial assistance, and provided a new name and identification documents. While conducting its periodic oversight into the WITSEC Program, the IG discovered that the Department – specifically, the U.S. Marshals Service and the Criminal Division’s Office of Enforcement Operations (“OEO”) –had little to no safeguards in place to make sure that the American people were protected from these potentially dangerous individuals. While most of the details of what the IG discovered are contained in a much longer non-public report, the six-page public summary alone paints an extremely troubling picture. For example, the IG discovered that the Department did not actually know how many terrorists had been admitted to WITSEC. It had lost track of at least two terrorists in the Program. It was not sharing critical information about potential terrorist activities by WITSEC participants with our national security stakeholders, including the FBI. And, the Department was not providing the witnesses’ new identities to the Terrorist Screening Center, which meant that these new names were also not included in the Transportation Security Administration’s No Fly List. Accordingly, known terrorists who were trained in aviation and explosives, and who were banned from flying, were free to fly commercially at their whim. I would say that this sounds like the plot of a Naked Gun movie if it weren’t so terrifying – and true. One of the most important lessons after September 11th was the critical need for better information sharing among our national security and law enforcement entities. The IG’s report makes it clear that there is still much work to be done in this regard. Today, I expect to hear from the Justice Department how this mismanagement was allowed to happen, how the Department intends to mitigate the potential harm to our national security that has already been done, and what it is doing to make sure something like this doesn’t happen again.
06.04.2013	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) today sent a letter to Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Peter Kadzik in response to the letter they received from him yesterday. On May 29, Chairman Goodlatte and Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner wrote to Attorney General Eric Holder seeking answers to the discrepancies between his sworn congressional testimony before the House Judiciary Committee and his decision to obtain a search warrant for the emails of James Rosen, the chief Washington correspondent for Fox News. To date, the Committee has not received an on-the-record response from Attorney General Holder. Below is the text of the letter. To read the signed letter, click here. “Dear Mr. Kadzik, “We received yesterday a letter from you that you claim responds to our May 29th letter to the Attorney General. It does not. The Attorney General made on-the-record statements before the Judiciary Committee and the American people under oath that prompted our letter. Congress and the American people deserve to have the Attorney General respond to the Committee on the record. A letter from a subordinate that fails to answer many of our questions does not suffice. “We, along with other members of Congress, have been invited to an off-the-record meeting at the Justice Department with Attorney General Holder. The email inviting us to this meeting says it “is one of a series of meetings with media and other organizations that the Attorney General is conducting as part of the policy review directed by the President.” We support the policy review that the Department has initiated at the President’s behest. But, as with your letter, an off-the-record policy review meeting with the Attorney General is not a substitute for an on-the-record response to our letter. “We expect the Attorney General to respond fully, in writing, to our letter by close of business on Wednesday, June 5, 2013. We look forward to his response.”
06.03.2013	As former Chairman and 35-year veteran of the House Judiciary Committee, I’ve sought answers to tough questions from both Republican and Democrat-appointed cabinet members. I am not motivated by partisanship, but by truth. And once again, Eric Holder is hiding from the truth. On May 29, Chairman Goodlatte and I sent a letter to Holder which included a list of questions that gave the Attorney General the opportunity to clarify his May 15 testimony to the Judiciary Committee. Unfortunately, in lieu of a genuine response, he tasked Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Peter J. Kadzik with drafting a defense. This is insulting and further proof that the buck doesn’t stop with Attorney General Holder. Not only did the letter come from a low-level staffer at DOJ, not Holder himself, it fails to answer the questions raised by his misleading testimony. Here are just a few problems with the Department’s response: “[T]he President has directed the Attorney General to conduct a review of Department policies regarding investigations involving the media.” Problem: The Attorney General is in charge of investigating himself. “[T]he Attorney General has initiated a dialogue with new media representatives.” Problem: The meeting was off the record and most members of the press declined the invitation. “[Eric Holder] supports media shield legislation currently under consideration by the Senate.” Problem: The Administration promoted the legislation in a blatant response to the AP scandal. Even if it was law, it probably would not have protected AP reporters or James Rosen of Fox News. “The Attorney General’s testimony before the Committee on May 15, 2013, with respect to the Department’s prosecutions of unauthorized disclosure of classified information was accurate and consistent with these facts.” Problem: Only a building full of lawyers can split hairs so finely to argue the Department’s investigation of Rosen did not rise to the level of a potential prosecution. Every first year law student understands the difference between an investigation and a prosecution, but if the Department’s broad and open-ended warrant of Rosen’s emails was not part of a potential prosecution, then the Department has no regard for the First or Fourth Amendments. Congress and the American people deserve an explanation, on the record, from Attorney General Holder. It is clear Eric Holder is dodging accountability and the truth. He is unfit to lead the Department of Justice.
06.03.2013	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) today received a letter from Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Peter Kadzik in response to a recent letter they sent to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding the discrepancy between his sworn testimony before the House Judiciary Committee earlier this month and his decision to obtain a search warrant for the emails of James Rosen, the chief Washington correspondent for Fox News. Chairman Goodlatte and Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner released the statements below in response to the letter. Chairman Goodlatte: “Today’s response from the Justice Department’s Office of Legislative Affairs raises more questions than it answers. By having a subordinate send this response rather than Attorney General Holder himself, this response begs the question of whether Holder has something to hide. Discrepancies in Attorney General Holder’s congressional testimony made on the record need to be corrected on the record to Congress by Attorney General Holder himself. “Attorney General Holder still has yet to respond to our letter. He can’t outsource the responsibility for his actions to lower level staff—the buck stops with him. The American people and Congress deserve answers and accountability from Attorney General Holder. The House Judiciary Committee anxiously awaits his response to our May 29 letter by this Wednesday’s deadline.” Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner: “This response is insulting and further proof that Attorney General Holder refuses to hold himself accountable. Not only did the letter come from a low-level staffer at DOJ, not Holder himself, it fails to answer the questions raised by his misleading testimony. Congress and the American people deserve an explanation from the Attorney General. It is increasingly obvious that Eric Holder has something to hide. I still expect a response from the Attorney General before the deadline of Wednesday, June 5.”
05.17.2013	Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) prepared the following opening statement for today’s hearing on “Eyes in the Sky: the Domestic Use of Unmanned Aerial Systems”: Welcome to the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations’ hearing, “Eyes in the Sky: the Domestic Use of Unmanned Aerial Systems.” Today we will explore the use of unmanned aircraft within the United States. We will discuss the possible uses and capabilities of such unmanned aircraft, and we will learn about the effect such use may have on the privacy of Americans. We will also discuss the constitutional issues that may arise when the government uses unmanned aircraft for law enforcement and public safety purposes. The United States remains at the forefront of technological progress. Every day we hear of some advancement in communications or computer technology that promises vast improvements in our daily lives. We have become a much more interconnected and informed population than we were just 10 years ago. Within the last few years, high powered computers and data networks have been combined with aircraft, allowing them to be piloted remotely. Now, we are witnessing a boom in unmanned aerial systems, or UAS. Small, maneuverable UAS promise benefits in many fields that used to rely on manned aircraft. Law enforcement and public safety are increasingly becoming the most prevalent uses for UAS. Unmanned aircraft can now be flown for longer times and for longer distances than ever before. Improved technology enables ground operators to both control UAS and to receive images and data from the aircraft. UAS are safer and less expensive to operate. It is now possible to purchase a UAS helicopter from a hobby store for a few hundred dollars and pilot it remotely from your smart phone or computer tablet. The ability to fly a small, unmanned aircraft with cameras and sensors can also profoundly affect privacy and civil liberties in this country. No longer restricted to the high cost and short flight time of manned flight, UAS can hover outside a home or office. Using face recognition software and fast computer chips, a UAS may soon be able to recognize someone and follow them down the street. These new surveillance capabilities, in the hands of the police, may be intrusive to our concepts of individual liberty. That is why I have cosponsored the ‘‘Preserving American Privacy Act of 2013”, a bill sponsored by Representative Ted Poe of Texas and Representative Zoe Lofgren of California. As UAS becomes more prevalent in our lives, we need to look at the 4th amendment and privacy implications of technology that enables prolonged remote flight. It has been well-settled in Supreme Court cases that the “reasonable expectation of privacy” applies to the home and surrounding curtilage . In contrast, generally speaking, a person that walks down the street no longer enjoys that expectation of privacy. This is commonly referred to as the open fields doctrine. The distinction between one’s home and curtilage versus the open fields is an important legal concept for understanding how the 4th amendment is applied to our daily lives. UAS capabilities may affect how we decide the extent of the curtilage, along with the position of fences and walls. This is a subject that has great relevance today. This past March, in the case of Florida v. Jardines, the Supreme Court ruled that a police dog sniffing for marijuana at the front door of a house qualifies as a search under the 4th amendment. Justice Scalia, in that opinion, wrote about the importance of the curtilage, saying that the curtilage is “part of the home itself for 4th amendment purposes.” UAS may affect the debate where curtilage ends and the 'open fields’ start. Any technology carried by a UAS that will magnify or enhance human senses could affect privacy concerns under the 4th amendment. Every advancement in crime fighting technology, from wiretaps to DNA, has resulted in courts carving out the constitutional limits within which the police operate. With us today are several experts in UAS and constitutional law, and we will discuss the implications for this new technology and the constitution. We will discuss the directions in which constitutional legal theory is likely to go, and what the implications are for this promising, and potent new technology. I look forward to hearing more about this issue and thank all of our witnesses for participating in today’s hearing.
05.16.2013	The U.S. Department of Justice of the Inspector General released a report today highlighting the gross mishandling of known or suspected terrorists in the federal Witness Security Program (WITSEC). Participants of the WITSEC program are relocated, provided a new identity, financial aid and occupational training. It is unknown how many terrorists have been admitted into the program, but we do know it includes individuals trained in aviation and explosives, involved in bombing attacks and guilty of conspiracy to murder American citizens. While these individuals were included on the Transportation and Security Administration’s (TSA) “No-Fly List,” their new names are not listed. As a result, they have been able to fly on commercial planes in the United States. The location of at least two of the known or suspected terrorists in the program is unknown. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I am outraged by the cosmic mishandling of terrorists in the Witness Security Program. While someone must be held accountable, rest assured that Holder and the Obama Administration will once again pass the buck. Meanwhile, terrorists travel freely under new identities unknown by TSA. Like Boston, the failure to share pertinent information between agencies endangers American lives. This is yet another example of the complete lack of leadership and adequate oversight by Attorney General Holder and the Justice Department. As we heard at this week’s Judiciary hearing, Attorney General Holder admittedly does not know what is happening under his watch.”
05.15.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner’s (R-WI) response to Attorney General Eric Holder’s testimony today at the oversight hearing on the U.S. Department of Justice before the House Judiciary Committee: “As the head of the Department of Justice, it is Attorney General Holder’s responsibility to ensure the agency operates properly. But recent events further demonstrate that DOJ is inefficient and lacks adequate oversight and leadership. While the buck should stop with Attorney General Holder, he continues to pass the buck. He was not forthright at today’s hearing and refuses to hold himself or the Administration accountable. “We still need an adequate explanation on why the phone records of more than 20 AP reporters were subpoenaed. The regulations place the responsibility for approving these requests directly on the attorney general. The Obama Administration claims to value the freedom of the press, but contradictorily, it has violated its own regulations regarding media subpoenas. While in certain instances, actions must be taken in the name of national security, the scope of this subpoena was an obvious abuse of power. “The AP subpoena scandal also highlights the need for ECPA reform. I have previously called for a warrant requirement before the government can request email content. This scandal makes clear that the government should also have to pursue a warrant before obtaining phone records. Americans, whether in the media or just ordinary citizens, should be protected from unnecessary government intrusions into their private lives.”
05.09.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) reintroduced the Private Property Rights Protection Act today. This bill would provide American citizens with the means to protect their private property from inappropriate claims of eminent domain. If a state or political subdivision of a state uses its eminent domain power to transfer private property to other private parties for the purpose economic development, the state would be ineligible for federal economic funds for two fiscal years following a judicial determination that the law has been violated. Additionally, the federal government would be prohibited from using eminent domain for economic development purposes. In Kelo v. City of New London, the Supreme Court ruled that “economic development” can be a “public use” under the Fifth Amendment’s Taking Clause. The ruling gave the government the authority to transfer property from someone with fewer resources to someone with more. Taking private property for private use disproportionately affects the poor, churches, religious institutions and non-profit organizations. It’s a fundamental liberty to allow private citizens to use their property for whatever lawful purpose they choose. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “A large majority of Americans oppose the taking of private property for private uses, even if it is for the public economic good. Congress should fight to protect private property rights and reform the use and abuse of eminent domain. Under the Supreme Court’s decision, farmers in Wisconsin are particularly vulnerable. Farmland is less valuable than residential or commercial property, which means it doesn’t generate as much property tax as homes or offices. This bill would restore the property rights the Supreme Court took away.”
05.08.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-5) and Congressman Sean Duffy (WI-7), along with several other members of the Wisconsin delegation, sent a letter today to the House Committee on Agriculture Chairman Frank Lucas and Ranking Member Collin Peterson. The letter expresses opposition to the Dairy Market Stabilization Program (DMSP), which is included in the Dairy Security Act – part of the farm bill scheduled to be marked-up by the Committee later this month. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Wisconsin has more dairy farmers than any other state and milk policies have a direct effect on our state’s economy and its ability to create and sustain jobs. While I support better risk management tools to hedge against losses in the dairy industry, market stabilization could negatively impact Wisconsin’s ability to export milk due to the threat of an inconsistent supply. DMSP would create additional government intrusion – keeping prices artificially high, wasting government funds and stifling job growth. “We should not deter dairy farmers from producing additional milk in order to manage over-production in other areas. It is important to ensure the Agriculture Committee is aware of dairy’s importance to Wisconsin and our milk producers are not unintentionally hurt by a bill intended to help American farmers.” Congressman Duffy: “I have always supported passing a long term farm bill in order to give farmers the certainty they need for planning and making business decisions. Additionally, the Wisconsin dairy industry has seen tremendous growth in recent years driven primarily from exports. The controversial supply management program included in last year's farm bill would threaten that growth and Wisconsin jobs. Removing this provision will make it easier to get a farm bill passed as soon as possible, giving Wisconsin’s dairy industry the best opportunity to flourish in the future.” Letter to Chairman Lucas and Ranking Member Peterson
05.07.2013	The House Judiciary Committee approved today the creation of the bipartisan Over-Criminalization Task Force. The task force will consist of five Republicans and five Democrats and will be led by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA). Chairman Sensenbrenner: “As former chairman and long-serving member of the Judiciary Committee, I’ve seen first-hand just how muddled the criminal code is. It’s time to scrub it clean. The Over-Criminalization Task Force will review federal laws in Title 18, and laws outside of Title 18 that have not gone through the Judiciary Committee, to modernize our criminal code. “In addition, I reintroduced the Criminal Code Modernization and Simplification Act today, which would reform Title 18 of the U.S. Code, reduce the existing criminal code by more than one-third and update the code to make it more comprehensible.” Congressman Sensenbrenner prepared the following opening statement for today’s full Committee markup of the “Over-Criminalization Task Force Resolution of 2013”: The Over-criminalization Task Force established by this resolution continues the Committee’s bipartisan review of over-criminalization and over-federalization that began two Congresses ago. The Crime Subcommittee held hearings in both the 111th and 112th Congress to resurrect important policy discussions that had been dormant for over two decades about the breadth and scope of federal criminal law. Today, there are roughly 4,500 federal crimes on the books. And still many more regulations and rules that, if not abided by, result in criminal penalties, including incarceration. Many of these laws impose criminal penalties – often felony penalties – for violations of federal regulations. Americans are expected to know it is wrong to commit murder or burglary or engage in an act of terrorism, regardless of what the law says. But today Americans must contend with literally thousands of obscure and cumbersome federal regulations, a simple misreading or ignorance of a regulation can land a person in prison. An even more fundamental issue raised by such regulations is whether the prohibited conduct should be criminalized in the first place. Unfortunately, many regulatory crimes improperly define the elements of criminality, including omitting or improperly defining the appropriate level of criminal intent. The growth in criminal regulations has also caused an expansion of the number of federal agencies empowered to investigate this “criminal” conduct. We are all familiar with criminal investigative agencies such as the FBI, DEA, or Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But what about the National Marine Fisheries Service within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration? Or the Office of Criminal Investigations within the Food and Drug Administration? Along with broad-sweeping criminal regulations comes a host of investigative agencies eager to enforce them. The goal of the Over-criminalization Task Force is to conduct a more in-depth analysis of these and other over-criminalization and over-federalization issues, to identify improvements to federal law and the House Rules, and to make bipartisan, unanimous recommendations to the Committee. It has been over 50 years since the criminal code was last revised. The existing criminal code is riddled with provisions that are either outdated or simply inconsistent with more recent modifications to reflect today’s modern approach to criminal law. Through the years, the criminal code has grown with more and more criminal provisions, some of which are antiquated or redundant, some of which are poorly drafted, some of which have not been used in the last 30 years, and some of which are unnecessary since the crime is already covered by other existing criminal provisions. Today I will re-introduce the Criminal Code Modernization and Simplification Act to reform and recodify Title 18 of the U.S. Code. This effort to reform the federal criminal code has resulted in a bill that exceeds 1,200 pages in length – and this bill encompasses only Part I of Title 18. If nothing else, the sheer volume of this bill brings into specific focus the breadth of the criminal code and the need to reform it. I look forward to working with Ranking Member Scott and the other members of the Task Force to identify common-sense, bipartisan solutions to not only reform the criminal laws within Title 18 but also the myriad of criminal laws that are now scattered throughout many of the fifty-one titles of the U.S. Code.
04.29.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) sent the following letter today to the acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Robert Perciasepe, requesting the EPA reconsider its comments on the State Department’s Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) regarding the construction and operation of the Keystone XL pipeline project: Dear Administrator Perciasepe: I am concerned about the content and tone of your recent comment letter to the State Department regarding the Keystone XL pipeline. I recognize that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) was legally required to submit its review of the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). However, some of the conclusions reached in the letter appear to be a regurgitation of the environmental lobby’s talking points rather than an honest assessment of the Keystone XL pipeline project. The EPA should base its assessments on science and real world scenarios. Instead, this letter marks the latest attempt by the EPA to be the governmental arm of the environmental lobby. The EPA suggests that the State Department overestimates the feasibility of bringing oil to the marketplace without the approval of Keystone XL. The EPA’s belief is that other transportation methods will not be able to meet the same delivery capacity as Keystone, and therefore, would not have the same greenhouse gas (GHG) emission impact. But TransCanada has stated that this oil will be procured and shipped regardless of the approval of Keystone XL. Canada is home to the third largest oil reserves in the world, and in tapping this valuable natural resource, it will look for ways to bring the Canadian oil sands to market. Transportation by rail, ship, and other pipelines are all possibilities, and the global demand for oil likely ensures these methods will be maximized and expanded. It is naïve of the EPA to suggest that, if the United States does not buy Canadian oil, it simply won’t be sold. The Keystone XL pipeline is not the linchpin to increased GHG emissions that would result from extracting the oil from the Canadian oil sands. Other potential customers will fill the void in the marketplace if the United States balks at approving the pipeline. China had already indicated it is a willing buyer of the Canadian oil to meet its growing energy needs. To suggest that the State Department is overestimating the potential global marketplace for this oil is to completely misunderstand the world’s growing energy needs. In the letter, the EPA is also critical of the State Department for not providing enough detail about alternative routes for the pipeline. The siting of oil pipelines, even those that cross state borders, is typically under the jurisdiction of the states. The federal government is only involved in this project because it crosses an international border. The Keystone XL pipeline’s route has already been altered to address the environmental concerns of officials in Nebraska. This reroute led to the approval of the project by Nebraska, resulting in all states through which the pipeline will run approving its construction. In the spirit of federalism, the EPA should accept that these states have met their obligation to review the pipeline and drop its objection to the State Department’s review of alternative routes. The EPA’s criticism of the pipeline’s safety is also objectionable. At the State Department’s request, TransCanada has added 57 special safety measures for spill detection and mitigation. According to TransCanada, these measures include an increased number of remote shut off valves, greater inspections, and burying the pipeline deeper underground. These actions go far beyond what has been expected of any pipeline previously built in the United States. In a time of debt, deficits, and sequesters, the EPA should base any reviews on science and facts. Working to provide political cover for the President should he cave to the environmental lobby is an inappropriate use of the EPA’s time and resources. Please reconsider the EPA’s comments to the State Department’s EIS. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR. Member of Congress
04.26.2013	Sequestration went into effect March 1st, triggering a 5.3 percent cut in non-defense discretionary spending for federal agencies for fiscal year 2013. The Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) budget was reduced by $633 million. As a result, the FAA is cutting the Contract Tower Program (CTP) by a disproportionate 75 percent, closing 149 towers nationwide and all eight in Wisconsin. FAA cuts have also led to staff reductions, furloughs and subsequent flight delays. Today, H.R. 1765, the Reducing Flight Delays Act, passed the House with strong bipartisan support. This bill would allow Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood to transfer $253 million from the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program account to the FAA’s Operations account to prevent reduced operations and staffing at the FAA and ensure a safe and effective transportation system. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The FAA claims the negative effects of budget cuts are unavoidable. I disagree. H.R. 1765 would prevent inexcusable delays and protect American jobs. While the bill does not require Secretary LaHood to fund the Contract Tower Program (CTP), it is my hope that he will direct a portion of the transferred funds to the CTP’s operational budget. Contract Towers are considerably safer and less expensive than FAA-staffed towers and should not be shut down as a result of sequestration. The Department of Transportation is riddled with waste. There is no reason for the American people to suffer the consequences of Washington’s inefficiencies. The FAA should stop playing political games and target excess within the agency.”
04.24.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) sent the following letter today to University of Wisconsin President Kevin Reilly regarding his management of federal funds: Dear President Reilly: As President of the UW System, you are responsible for ensuring that taxpayer funding is handled in an appropriate and responsible manner. I am concerned with the recent report from the non-partisan Legislative Fiscal Bureau. While the UW System has been raising tuition and clamoring for more taxpayer support, they have been stockpiling hundreds of millions of dollars in unspent tuition and federal grant monies. The federal government provided the UW System with approximately $613 million in research grants for the fiscal year 2011. And yet, a recent Legislative Fiscal Bureau memo found that millions were stashed away in a slush fund. Specifically, the memo shows the UW System finished the year the year ending June 30, 2012, with nearly $650 million in cash reserves, including $414.1 million in tuition reserves. In total, the UW System ended the fiscal year with $1.05 billion balance. This end-of-the-year balance has nearly doubled since 2009. Adding insult to injury, the System grew these surpluses as it steadily increased tuition rates. The Board of Regents has raised base tuition across the System’s four-year schools by 5.5 percent annually since the 2007-08 academic year. I continuously hear from young people who are frustrated with high college costs and student loans. Some end up taking on substantial debt, while others put their hopes on hold or forgo higher education completely. Students and their families rightly expect that their tuition money will be used to cover their tuition costs, not to build up historic amounts of cash reserves. Additionally, the federal government rightly expects that federal grants be used for their specified purpose, not to line the pockets of the University. Given these facts, I would like you to respond to the following questions: • Why was this surplus not disclosed prior to the audit? • Of the $650 million in reserves, how much is in unspent federal grant monies? • What constitutes an appropriate level of cash balances and financial reserves for an institution of your size? • With this newly disclosed surplus, will you call for a freeze of tuition rates for the 2013-2014 school year? America’s system of higher education has always been one of shared responsibility: students, families, states, and the federal government all taking part in funding a college education. It is essential that the UW System do its part by ensuring transparency in its finances. I look forward to hearing from you on the steps you plan to take regarding this matter. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Member of Congress
04.23.2013	As the House Judiciary Committee considers updates to the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA), Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder seeking clarity on the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) official policy on access to email communications. In U.S. v. Warshak, the Sixth Circuit recognized that email is equivalent to a letter or phone call for the purposes of the Fourth Amendment. Therefore, the government cannot force an internet service provider to turn over the contents of an email without abiding by judicial procedures laid out by the Fourth Amendment, such as a warrant granted based on probable cause. The Department of Justice has indicated some support for this view, but should clarify its official policy. ECPA permits a governmental entity to force a service provider to disclose the contents of electronic communications in certain circumstances. Under the compelled-disclosure provisions, the government can obtain communications without a warrant if they are stored with a remote computing service or an electronic service provider for more than 180 days. These distinctions are outdated and inconsistent with the Fourth Amendment. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “It's no secret that, in the digital age, privacy is harder to maintain, but Americans should not have to choose between technology and privacy. The Fourth Amendment protects us from unreasonable searches and seizures. In the Internet-era, this should apply to email and other forms of electronic communication because it is central to our daily lives. As Americans, we have a reasonable expectation of privacy. In order to execute a search, legal procedures must be followed. Obtaining emails without going through the proper judicial channels violates the Fourth Amendment. I am optimistic Congress will update ECPA and hope that Attorney General Holder will assure the American people their privacy is being protected by the DOJ.” Letter to Attorney General Holder here.
04.12.2013	For almost a century, Washington has recognized the value of incentivizing charitable giving through our tax code. Americans rely on charities to provide a safety net for the hungry and poor, crisis relief, and health care. Nonprofits are also vital to our economy, generating $1.1 trillion every year in the form of jobs and services. These charities rely heavily on private donors. Historically, proposals to limit charitable deductions have been met with broad bi-partisan opposition, but President Obama’s budget proposal would limit such deductions. Under his proposal, charitable donations would almost certainly decline. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Charitable deductions should be exempt from political attack as we work to restructure our tax code. Americans appreciate the significance of our philanthropic sector as charity is engrained in America’s moral fiber. We must continue to encourage communities to take care of one another rather than instill ever-growing reliance on government. I will fight to protect charities and those who rely on them from the Administration’s misguided policies. “I recently introduced H.R. 1479 to affirm America’s commitment to protecting charitable giving by exempting charitable deductions from Pease limits. The bill emphasizes the importance of charitable deductions to ensure that we do not dissuade giving.”
04.10.2013	Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) prepared the following opening statement for today’s hearing on “Luxury Jets and Empty Prisons: Wasteful and Duplicative Spending at the Department of Justice”: Like all American families, the federal government has been forced to make cuts. Under sequestration, the Justice Department must cut approximately $1.6 billion from its annual budget of over $27 billion per year. The Department had over a year to prepare, but rather than doing the difficult work of identifying and eliminating waste and duplication, the Attorney General has told Congress that the only way it can meet its obligation is to furlough tens of thousands of employees. The furloughs undermine the Department’s ability to conduct its core mission and they are happening in the midst of obvious waste, fraud, and abuse at the Department. For example: • One law enforcement agency spent $116,000 over an 18-month period to buy high-end sunglasses. • Hundreds of Washington bureaucrats were given government cars to commute to work. • The Department spent $600,000 on event planners for just 5 conferences. • The Department has almost $100 million in appropriated funds sitting unused for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership program. • The Department has 56 separate grant programs for victims’ assistance, 41 programs for forensics, and 33 programs for juvenile justice. • The Department spent $165 million on a prison in Illinois that now sits empty, along with 4 other empty prisons awaiting activation. The Attorney General blames sequestration for why five federal prison facilities—including the infamous Thomson prison—sit empty and therefore useless. Isn’t the better question, why does the Department own five prisons it can’t afford to operate? The Department spent $165 million to purchase the Thomson prison last year while sequestration was already looming. This money could have been used to prevent furloughing the guards the Department has at its operating prisons. Luckily, it appears the Department has now found the $150 million needed to keep the guards in the prisons and the prisoners off the streets. Law enforcement agencies also appear to be staffing their Washington, DC headquarters by reassigning agents from other parts of the country on “temporary duty.” The Department does this by using an overly generous definition of “temporary”—extending these assignments up to 18 months. In addition to their full salaries, these employees receive enormous additional financial benefits from taxpayers—including $224 a day for housing costs and $71 a day for food. This adds up to at least $8,600 per month per employee above and beyond their salaries. An employee taking advantage of an 18-month long “temporary” assignment can receive a bonus of $154,800 in food and housing subsidies. I am dismayed that the Department would furlough thousands of employees – including federal agents in the field – instead of cutting costs by limiting or eliminating temporary duty assignments to headquarters. I intend to learn more about this practice from the Department. The Justice Department fulfills a critical mission—enforcing federal law, defending the interests of the United States, ensuring public safety against threats foreign and domestic, and ensuring the fair and impartial administration of justice for all Americans. And yet, our review of the Justice Department’s recent spending uncovered many examples, such as the ones I just mentioned, where the Department is not being a good steward of taxpayer money. Government waste, duplicative spending, and inefficient operations are always causes for concern. This is more true than ever in light of our current economic environment, in which the country faces a national debt of $16 trillion and growing. We must identify and reduce unnecessary spending in the Justice Department so it can focus on its critical law enforcement and national security functions. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today about how the Department can achieve greater cost savings in a responsible way.
04.10.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Congressman Jim Matheson (D-UT) introduced the Preserve the Charitable Contribution Deduction Act today which would help affirm our nation’s commitment to protecting charitable giving. Since 1917, Congress has seen the value of incentivizing charitable giving through our tax code. Diverse organizations such as hospitals, veterans’ organizations, religious institutions, universities, disaster relief services, museums and parks rely heavily on private donations. Proposals to limit charitable deductions have consistently been met with broad bi-partisan opposition because Americans appreciate the great significance of the philanthropic sector. Non-profits and charities are the country’s first safety net and can play a critical role in lessening the load on financially-strapped government programs. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Non-profit and charitable organizations are deeply engrained in our social fiber. Looking out for our fellow man is part of the American way of life. Americans recognize the importance of the philanthropic sector. And in trying economic times, the importance of non-profits and charities only grows. We should make clear that the deduction for charitable giving is a critical part of our tax code.” Congressman Matheson: “The charitable deduction should be protected in order to maintain the important work that charities are undertaking across the country. Especially during this time of economic recovery, charities are providing a vital safety net. It is critical that we encourage and provide people with every opportunity to give back.” According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, 80 percent of Americans who itemize their deductions contribute to charity. Last year, the top three percent of taxpayers gave about 45 percent of the $180 billion in deductible charitable contributions. Charitable deductions should be exempted from the Pease limits to emphasize their importance. America is the global leader in giving – contributing more to charity than any other nation. By excluding charitable deductions from the Pease rule, we affirm our country’s rich tradition of giving and reinforce our commitment to charity.
04.10.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s 2014 budget proposal: “I was extremely disappointed by President Obama’s budget proposal – a plan that does not offer America a path toward fiscal stability or self-reliance. Our economy is struggling and raising taxes by over a trillion dollars on hard-working families, increasing spending by $964 billion and adding $8.2 trillion to our debt is not the answer. We simply cannot tax, spend and borrow our way to prosperity. A budget that never balances is irresponsible and is not the solution the American people are looking for. “I support the responsible proposal brought forth by Chairman Ryan and the House Budget Committee. Our plan balances in ten years and brings real solutions to the table to address waste and excess, making government more accountable and better stewards of taxpayer money. Washington must tackle the drivers of our debt and address the mountainous burden it is placing on future generations. This is not only an economic issue, but a moral one as well.”
04.05.2013	Today the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced it is delaying until June 15 the closures of the 149 federal contract air traffic control towers. Last month, the FAA announced the closures under the Contract Tower Program (CTP) blaming sequestration cuts. In so doing, the Administration ignored the cost savings and increased safety benefits of the program and pushed to cut CTP by 75 percent even though the FAA budget is absorbing only a five percent cut. “I hope the move by the FAA to delay the airport tower closures is a sign the Administration is listening to the serious concerns that I raised in a letter to Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood last week. The FAA says it has safety as its top priority and pledges to ‘get this right.' But, Contract Towers are safer and save taxpayer money. Only by reconsidering this misguided decision will the FAA get it right. Let’s hope with more time the FAA will give the matter more thoughtful consideration and focus on cutting bureaucratic waste rather than cutting programs that save taxpayer money.”
04.01.2013	Congressman Sensenbrenner sent a letter today to Transportation Secretary LaHood to gain a better understanding of why the cost-effective Contract Tower Program (CTP) has been cut and what can be done to salvage the Contract Towers and the jobs of the workers who operate them. “Washington is full of excess, waste and duplication. Our federal government is bloated and we must begin the tedious process of unburdening the American taxpayer from political inefficiency. Reining in spending will stabilize our economy and put America on a path to fiscal stability and self-reliance. But we must do so carefully and responsibly. Across the board cuts are not the answer. “When looked at next to comparable FAA-staffed towers, Contract Towers are considerably safer and less expensive. It is my goal to work with Secretary LaHood to pinpoint waste within the Department of Transportation (DOT) in order to reallocate funds to the Contract Tower Program. By doing so, I am confident that we can provide a sufficient operational budget for Contract Towers – saving jobs and ensuring flyer safety while still achieving the necessary savings required by sequestration.” ###
03.22.2013	Congressman Sensenbrenner’s (R-WI) response to the FAA’s announcement to move forward with the closure of Contract Towers as part of sequestration cuts: “I am concerned about the FAA’s announcement that 149 federal Contract Towers will be shut down as a result of sequestration, including all eight in Wisconsin. There are fewer safety incidents at Contract Towers than at comparable FAA-staffed towers, and Contract Towers cost an average of $1.5 million less per year. The FAA budget is being cut by five percent, while the FAA is cutting contract towers by 75 percent. “The bottom line is Contract Towers are safer and save money. The FAA must reevaluate its decision, and the White House must put an end to its political charade. On March 14, several of my colleagues and I sent a letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta questioning these closures despite considerable wasteful spending at FAA. I intend to send a follow-up letter inquiring how much taxpayer money is being spent on the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which funnels money to remote airports, like the one in Saipan, while towers around the country are being shut down. I also intend to investigate the role public unions played in this decision.”
03.21.2013	Representative Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) made the following remarks after voting in support of House Republicans' Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Resolution, which was passed by the House of Representatives today. “Today, by voting in favor of a responsible budget, House Republicans have again shown our eagerness to change course and put America’s economy back on track. Chairman Ryan and the members of the House Budget Committee have constructed a blueprint to balance the budget in 10 years, putting an end to annual trillion dollar deficits while protecting programs Americans depend on and addressing our broken tax code. “Our national debt is over $16.4 trillion and growing. It is not only an economic issue, but a moral one that endangers our national security and threatens the prosperity of future generations. The bottom line is Washington cannot continue to spend more money than it brings in. And the Republican budget is a step in the right direction.” ###
03.19.2013	This afternoon, Congressman Sensenbrenner (R-WI) clarified remarks he made during the House Judiciary Crime Subcommittee’s hearing on the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, also known as ECPA. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “I have long opposed data retention and do not believe that any ECPA reform package should include such a mandate. Data ‘retention’ requires a provider to retain information about the Internet use of all of its customers. A data retention mandate raises privacy concerns because it affects all users, not just bad actors. “By contrast, I support a far more targeted approach, data preservation, which is already found in current law. The law requires providers to preserve data about the Internet use of a particular subscriber when law enforcement has evidence of wrongdoing. Current law allows for a retention period of 90 days, renewable for an additional 90-days. At today’s hearing, I was inquiring as to whether extending this 180 preservation requirement would be useful to law enforcement. I still believe that the more cumbersome proposals for data retention belong ‘in the dustbin of history.’”
03.12.2013	Today, Representative Paul Ryan (R-WI) introduced House Republicans’ fiscal year 2014 budget resolution. As he has in the past, Representative Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) supports Congressman Ryan and the House Budget Committee in their attempt to rein in out-of-control spending and balance the budget. “Congress has an obligation to put an end to wasteful spending, fix our broken tax code and protect Medicare and other programs Americans rely on. I support the Republican Budget because it is a responsible plan to get our economy back on track while protecting seniors and repairing safety nets for the poor without raising taxes. It creates a climate in which the private sector can thrive and create jobs, generates stability and protects the American Dream for future generations. “The proposal by House Republicans balances our budget in 10 years – something the Senate’s plan never does. And while the White House has not yet released its budget, I expect to see nothing but more tax hikes and trillion dollar deficits from the Obama Administration.” View the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Resolution here. ###
03.05.2013	Representative Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today reintroduced the Religious Freedom Tax Repeal Act (bill text) to allow religious institutions and private employers with sincerely held religious beliefs to follow the core tenets of their faith, rather than bow to a government mandate that violates their rights of conscience. “America was founded by strong-willed individuals seeking religious freedom. These freedoms laid the groundwork for what is now the greatest nation in the history of the world. But certain provisions in ObamaCare allow the federal government to infringe upon this fundamental American right – forcing religious institutions and private businesses to choose between violating their faith-based values or facing substantial financial consequences. Employers with hundreds of employees could face millions of dollars in fines annually. Religious institutions such as parochial schools, hospitals, soup kitchens, and universities, as well as businesses with moral convictions, may have no choice but to violate their consciences or close their doors, unable to afford the staggering confiscatory taxes laid out in ObamaCare. “Therefore, I am reintroducing legislation that protects our liberties from the federal government’s attack on religious freedom in America. In a time when many businesses are already struggling to stay afloat and millions of Americans cannot find work, it is reprehensible for the federal government to punish religious institutions and employers who are creating jobs and contributing to our recovery.” The Religious Freedom Tax Repeal Act of 2013 would exempt employers from penalties, excise taxes, and certain suits that would be instituted against an employer if they fail to provide coverage in their group health plan currently mandated by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that offends their religious or moral convictions. ###
02.28.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) introduced H.R. 875, which would require the EPA to stop the use of gasoline containing 15 percent ethanol (E15) until its harmful effects are investigated further. H.R. 875 (text here) would repeal the EPA’s waiver decision approving the use of E15 and the authority of the agency to grant further decisions until the EPA seeks an independent scientific analysis of the effects of the E15 blend. “There have been several tests and warnings highlighting E15’s harmful effects on engines and their components, but they have all been dismissed by the EPA. Therefore, we must force the EPA to stop the use of E15 fuel until the serious safety, durability, performance and environmental concerns have been addressed. Throughout the 112th Congress, I introduced several bills to address the risks associated with E15. And earlier this week, witnesses from AAA, the American Motorcycle Association, and the Coordinating Research Council all testified to the Science, Space and Technology Committee that more testing is needed. We have a responsibility to ensure that Americans using gas-powered machinery – whether it be cars and boats or chainsaws and lawnmowers – are not put at risk due to faulty fuel that has not been adequately vetted.” ###
02.20.2013	In light of last week's meteor and asteroid, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today sent NASA Administrator Bolden a fact-finding letter to work with NASA to assess the nation's preparedness for future cosmic incidences. Text of the letter follows: February 20, 2013 The Honorable Charles F. Bolden, Jr. Administrator National Aeronautics and Space Administration 300 E Street, SW Washington, DC 20546 Dear Administrator Bolden: The vivid images of last Friday’s meteor streaking across the Russian sky quickly made their way around the world, captivating the public and leaving many to wonder how such an event could happen without warning. On the same day, much of the world’s astronomical focus was on an asteroid, 2012 DA14, which safely passed the Earth, but came close enough to warrant attention. These events, while coincidental, raise questions about our preparedness for future objects coming toward Earth. The meteor in Russia resulted in nearly 1,000 injuries, mostly due to broken glass caused by the explosion from the meteoroid entering our atmosphere. This devastation serves as a blunt reminder of the dangers that cosmic objects pose to human safety and wellbeing. The likelihood of a catastrophic event may be low, but the consequences are sufficiently dire to warrant preparation. An early warning could enable steps to mitigate damage and limit the loss of human life. Locating and tracking these objects is clearly just the first step in preparedness. The ability to eliminate the threat of an asteroid or meteor impacting Earth, colliding with the Moon, or disrupting our space-oriented communications and scientific equipment could be vital. We would be remiss if we did not use the recent events as an opportunity to survey our current capabilities and assess how we can better use limited resources to identify potential threats. Please respond to the following questions by March 20, 2013: 1) Please explain the current arrangement for tracking cosmic objects. To what degree of certainty are the objects which pose a threat to Earth being monitored? What type of coordination is occurring on an international scale? 2) What shortcomings are currently present in NASA’s ability to accurately track and predict cosmic objects which may pose a threat to Earth, the Moon, our satellites and other space-oriented apparatus? 3) How achievable are current NASA plans designed to eliminate the threats posed by cosmic objects on a collision course with Earth? 4) How much lead time is necessary between identifying a threat to Earth and its neutralization employing the current NASA strategies? Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. I look forward to reviewing your response. Sincerely, F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR Member of Congress
02.15.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today introduced legislation to limit the EPA’s ability to mandate that refiners blend more cellulosic biofuel than is actually available. This bill (text here) will require the EPA to set the mandate for cellulosic biofuel, in part, based on evidence of how much cellulosic biofuel was available the previous year. “If EPA cannot base their mandate on realistic projections, Congress should act to protect Americans from the agency’s phantom fuel fine,” Sensenbrenner said. “When EPA fines refiners millions of dollars for failing to use a nonexistent fuel, consumers will end up paying more at the pump. We want our energy policy to encourage innovation and energy security, but the EPA’s unreasonable approach defies common sense and manipulates the law’s intent.” “The D.C. Court vacated the EPA’s 2012 projection as unrealistic and an abuse of the agency’s power. What did EPA do? They nearly doubled the 2013 mandate for a fuel that is still commercially unavailable. The EPA is on a runaway political agenda, and the purpose of my bill is to rein in the agency to enforce the law, not an ideology or wishful thinking.” Background: EPA’s 2013 mandate requires refiners to purchase 14 million gallons of cellulosic biofuel or pay a penalty. However, there is limited availability of the fuel, and certainly nothing remotely near the EPA mandate. In fact, prior to 2012, there were zero gallons of this fuel commercially produced. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 set ambitious standards for cellulosic biofuel production as a part of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). When Congress proposed these aggressive goals, cellulosic biofuel was still a theoretical fuel. Therefore, it empowered EPA with the authority to reduce the mandate to commercially realistic levels should actual production fall short of the congressional mandate. Since 2010, the EPA has set unrealistic mandates for cellulosic biofuels. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the 2012 mandate, 8.7 million gallons, was “an unreasonable exercise of agency discretion,” and rejected that requirement. ###
02.13.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today sent a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to investigate the agency’s recently released 2013 mandate for cellulosic ethanol. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the EPA’s 2012 projection of cellulosic biofuel production as unrealistic and “in excess of the agency’s statutory authority.” “Despite a very clear rebuke by the D.C. Court, EPA doubled down on a runaway political agenda to impose unrealistic RFS standards. The agency has been mandating that refiners buy a commercially unavailable fuel and then fining them for not using it. These fines get passed on to consumers with higher prices at the pump. EPA needs to explain how the absurd 2013 projection is reasonable and within the agency’s authority.” Read the letter Congressman Sensenbrenner sent to EPA here. Background: EPA’s 2013 mandate requires refiners to purchase 14 million gallons of cellulosic biofuel or pay a penalty. However, there is limited availability of the fuel, and certainly nothing remotely near the EPA mandate. In fact, prior to 2012, there were zero gallons of this fuel commercially produced. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 set ambitious standards for cellulosic biofuel production as a part of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). When Congress proposed these aggressive goals, cellulosic biofuel was still a theoretical fuel. Therefore, it empowered EPA with the authority to reduce the mandate to commercially realistic levels should actual production fall short of the congressional mandate. Since 2010, the EPA has set unrealistic mandates for cellulosic biofuels. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the 2012 mandate, 8.7 million gallons, was “an unreasonable exercise of agency discretion,” and rejected that requirement. Last Congress, Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced legislation to limit the EPA’s ability to mandate that refiners blend more cellulosic biofuel than is actually available.
02.01.2013	Today, Members on the U.S. House Judiciary Committee, Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-Wis.), Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Rep. Jerrold L. Nadler (D-N.Y.), Rep. Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.), and Rep. Melvin L. Watt (D-N.C.), filed a brief as amici curiae in the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of Shelby County v. Holder to defend the constitutionality of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which prohibits jurisdictions with a history of discrimination from making changes in their voting procedures without first demonstrating to either the Department of Justice or the District Court for the District of Columbia that the change will not deny a person the right to vote based on their race. In their amicus brief, the Judiciary Committee Members, who served as the bipartisan leadership at the time of the 2006 reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act, defended Congress’s responsibility under the Constitution to remove any impediments to the ballot box and to protect the integrity of the election process. Following the filing of the amicus brief, the Representatives involved released this statement: Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr.: “The Voting Rights Act is the crown jewel of civil rights laws. It protects our most fundamental right—the right to vote. This law has empowered minorities to participate in the election process, but the threat of discrimination is not yet extinct. In 2006, the House compiled 12,000 pages of extensive testimony. This record shows Section 5 not only worked to correct past injustices, but is unmistakably central to the continued protection of minorities’ right to vote in covered districts. I am proud of this law, and join my colleagues in ardently defending its constitutionality.” Rep. John Conyers, Jr.: “The right to vote is fundamental to our democracy, and the foundation on which all of our other rights rest. As we have seen in litigation over the past year, Section 5 remains critical to enforcing the constitutional rights of all voters, especially for voters in jurisdictions with a history of discrimination. We affirm our obligation to the Constitution to defend Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, which is the basis of Congress’s authority to enforce equal access to voting for every citizen. We urge the Supreme Court to consider the arguments presented in our amicus brief, and to uphold Section 5 Voting Rights Act in its entirety. “It is notable that we are filing this amicus brief just days before the 143rd anniversary of the ratification of the 15th Amendment. The 15th Amendment grants Congress the express power to prevent, through appropriate legislation, the denial of the right to vote based on a citizen’s race, color, or previous condition of servitude. Congress will continue to protect citizens from discrimination in the elections process by guaranteeing equal protection under the law for all voters.” Rep. Steven Chabot: “The Constitution expressly grants broad authority to Congress to both regulate the time, manner and place of elections and to enact legislation to ensure that no citizen's right to vote is unlawfully denied. As such, Congress was acting at the height of its constitutional powers both when it enacted Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act and when it reauthorized those provisions in 2006. During the reauthorization process, the House Judiciary Committee conducted 12 hearings, received testimony from 46 witnesses and compiled an extensive record to support its conclusion that Section 5 should be reauthorized. Consequently, I urge the Supreme Court to defer to the judgment of Congress and uphold this important provision in its entirety.” Rep. Jerrold L. Nadler: “Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act has proved a critical tool in protecting minority voters from efforts to disenfranchise them. As we documented when we reauthorized it in 2006, these practices continue, and stopping them before they can take effect under the preclearance provisions of section 5, is the only way to ensure that voting rights can be protected. Our brief provides the Supreme Court with the legal basis for the bipartisan judgment of the overwhelming majority of the Congress that the Voting Rights Act remains necessary to protect our most fundamental democratic right. I believe that, when the Court reviews that record, it will have no choice but to uphold the Voting Rights Act as it has consistently for nearly half a century.” Rep. Melvin L. Watt: “In 2006, Congress assembled an unprecedented record of evidence to determine whether Section 5 of the Voting Rights Acts continued to protect minority voters and was sufficiently targeted in jurisdictions with a history of discrimination. That record establishes that voting discrimination is an enduring problem and that Section 5 remains necessary to safeguard the voting franchise for all Americans. I trust that the Court will recognize, as we did, that Section 5 remains a vital and legitimate component of the voting rights act.” Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott: "Invalidating Section 5 will essentially allow states and localities, who have a recorded history of discrimination, to implement any voter schemes and benefit from those schemes until the victims of discrimination raise the money for a lawsuit to overturn the scheme. Victims who are unable to afford expensive litigation will not have their rights protected," said Rep. Bobby Scott. "Those states and areas that are covered by Section 5 were not chosen randomly, they were selected the old fashion way - they earned it. It is my hope that the Court will uphold Section 5." The amicus brief can be found online here.
01.30.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), chair of the House Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations issued this statement in response to news today of a botched U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) sting operation in Milwaukee: “News of the botched ATF Milwaukee operation is extremely concerning. The Obama Administration wants to pass new gun laws and give new responsibilities to the ATF, but the agency has been inept at enforcing the laws that we already have. This is an agency that has been caught selling guns to crooks across the border. Giving them more responsibility is like promoting someone who can’t do the job. I will be investigating the ATF’s actions and mistakes because this type of mismanagement is not acceptable. Wisconsinites deserve answers, and I am not going to wait until we have another Fast and Furious-like situation to find them.”
01.28.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today released this statement on the Senate’s proposed framework for immigration: “The Senate group laid out some principles today, and the President will do the same tomorrow. But the devil is in the details. I want to see actual legislation and assess the intended and unintended consequences of the policies. Extending amnesty to those who came here illegally or overstayed their visas is dangerous waters. We are a nation of laws, and I will evaluate any proposal through that matrix.” ###
01.15.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today called on the President to lead a thoughtful and reasoned debate on reducing gun violence and denounce a video game inviting users to take shots at National Rifle Association (NRA) officials. Text of the letter to President Obama: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: As the conversation over gun violence continues to unfold in Washington and across the nation, I wanted to bring to your attention a disturbing new online video game. A website entitled “facepunch” allows users to download a video game inviting them to take head shots at National Rifle Association (NRA) officials. The game, “Bullet to the Head of the NRA,” specifically targets NRA President David Keene and Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre. According to reports, one scene depicts Mr. LaPierre standing at a podium, giving a speech with a crosshair over his head, and allows users to shoot him in the head. Making threats against public figures who speak out either for or against gun control prevents us from having a reasonable, thoughtful debate. Although we may have strong disagreements on the best ways to reduce gun violence, it is my hope that we can both agree that video games targeting specific individuals who speak out on this issue, is counterproductive. I urge you to publicly denounce this video game. Your voice can serve a powerful tool to emphasize the need for a civilized discussion. I look forward to a robust debate of the complex issues surrounding gun safety in the new Congress. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. Member of Congress Signed copy attached ###
01.02.2013	Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) issued this statement regarding his vote against the fiscal cliff deal that hikes job-killing taxes without including any real spending reforms: “The so-called deal doesn’t promote economic growth or job creation, it discourages it. Rather than address the drivers of our debt problem, it completely avoids any serious spending reform.” “I don’t want taxes to go up on anyone. I have spent my career fighting to help Wisconsinites keep more of their own money. But this deal only prolongs a debt crisis that will surely hand the taxpayers a bigger bill in the long term and threaten our economic growth. The CBO said this deal actually adds $4 trillion to the debt and includes forty-one dollars of tax increases for every one dollar of spending cuts.” “The ‘fiscal cliff’ may be over, but our fiscal crisis is not. The upcoming 113th Congress must focus on cutting spending and reforming the structural causes of our debt, including entitlements.” ###
